ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36947	Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you. Before continuing the work of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to congratulate my colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Parliament who have acquired and become Europarliamentaries on the elections, wish them successful work and to represent well and crediblely the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the European Parliament. I think that Croatia has come to the final step in this process, so on July 1st, which is also where the MPs will move to the Europarliament and leave us with our topics. Now we're going to work on the agenda points. Let's go to - Proposal for a Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.E.Z. No. 312. The proposer of the law is the Government in the boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Regional Self-Government. You've received reports from these working bodies. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister, Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36948	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The reason for the adoption of the VAT law is to fully comply with the provisions of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common VAT system and other VAT-related directives. The changes adopted by the new VAT Act are now in force for the taxpayer. The tax payer shall continue to be an entrepreneur who generates revenue above EUR 230 000 and those who, on their own request, are entered into the VAT system, and the authorities, the authorities of the state administration and the like, if they carry out their economic activity. The novelty is that the occasional obligor is considered all persons and citizens, and the ministries and institutions that acquire or deliver new means of transport. So if a citizen buys new cars in Germany he is obliged to pay VAT in Croatia in a way that he himself submits a application for tax administration within 10 days of the date of acquisition, within which he must pay the tax in order to make registration. For tax rates, the overall VAT rate of 25% remains with reduced rates of 10 and 5%. Everything that was 10% remains except daily newspapers and magazines that are set at a rate of 5%. With regard to tax exemptions, independent artists such as singers and actors will no longer be released from today's prescribed releases, today they are freed from VAT payments, not running business books. So from 1.7, they will enter the VAT system, move to book management if they had more than 230 000 kuna in the previous year. There is also no more freedom for religious communities on imports, as well as for Croatian defenders and the Ministry of Defence when they were released from VAT payments. Also, physical borders and controls are lifted and a single common market is created without fiscal borders, imports and exports between EU member states are replaced by the notion of good and delivery of goods within the EU. Due to the inclusion in the use of the new international VIES data exchange system, a new deadline is set for the submission of VAT forms, which is now 20th of the month for the previous month, is now the deadline of the last day of the month until the total application is to be sold. The verified summary application shall be delivered to the VIEW system by the end of the month in order for Member States to carry out the necessary controls. The VIES system is a database which Member States exchange data on entrepreneurs and their business in the common market, all for the control of VAT-free deliveries. The VAT payment deadline remains the same, so until the last day of the month. The deadline for submission of the final VAT account is amended, all entrepreneurs must submit it by the end of February for the previous year. Today, the deadline has income tax bonds, while the taxpayers today have until April 30th. Imports and exports that we have today remain in the case of deliveries to non-EU third countries for these countries are provided for the possibility that, on the basis of a solution from the Ministry of Finance, VAT is not physically paid for when importing them, but rather, that this is the accounting category for them. Also, our entrepreneurs operating on the common market must receive a VAT identification number, meaning HR+OIB code, that number by official duty will be assigned to those who are known to be operating on the market today and after the request of the client. The condition for business is that they have that number because they are then entered into the VIES base and other countries can be controlled. The maximum impact on the budget is expected at the requirements of VAT return and on entrepreneurs from other Member States. Now the same VAT returns but only from the one country where we have established reciprocity. It's about five states today. It is about entrepreneurs who in the field of the Republic of Croatia get an account for their business activities when they benefit or refuse to pay taxes, tax administration and therefore there is this VIES system will have to return directly to these and to entrepreneurs across the EU. Other important changes to the VAT Act are that from 1.1.2015, construction land becomes subject to VAT taxation when supplied by a taxpayer. So he's been 5% by now, now he's going to be looking at him as one whole and taxing with a 25% VAT. VAT shall remain until 31 per charge. In December 2013, since 1.1.2014, all VAT entrepreneurs are accounted for on-the-counts basis. For this provision, there was actually a lot of debate in the Parliament in public when this was passed, proposing this law. So we'll see what part of the debate is going to take place. Maybe we should still move to 1.1.2015. when we're actually going to use that part of VAT on the issued accounts for small entrepreneurs. But here it's important and I'm going to see most likely this part is going to be significant in this part of the debate so we're going to try to figure out how to actually improve that bill ourselves. Inclusion is also a change to include all rights in the area of free zone in the region of the Republic of Croatia in fiscal terms. Also, the business of exempting VAT from the provision of fuel for open sea ships is introduced by the reverse tax procedure abroad when VAT is calculated by the entrepreneur, the recipient of the delivery. For example, construction works in order to prevent abuses especially when we have actually foreign builders in our area, a safeguard clause is introduced here, a mechanism that is actually present in the EU, i.e. in practice in other countries. It also introduces the notion of a simplified account, meaning up to 700 kuna with an increasing number of elements which, on the other hand, exercise the right to deduct. So by applying this new VAT law somewhere, there's an estimate of about 500 million kuna that it's going to have an impact on the budget. What is certainly important is that by entering the EU it means 1.7. The VAT will no longer be paid immediately on import, but it will actually become an accounting category and it will certainly have a certain time shift on the state budget, meaning we are operating on the single market, so there will be no immediate payment of VAT and after a month of accounting rather than going immediately to the account as with our entrepreneurs so that in that part it is certainly going to be riskyly connected to VAT and also related to what we have said to return to foreign entrepreneurs so that these estimates here are about 500 million kuna less. We got some kind of research as we saw it was in the Republic of Slovenia or some other countries where the return for foreign entrepreneurs was actually bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36949	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs want the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament? Yeah. Goran Beus Richembergh, Tourism Committee. Here's the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36950	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, you have received a very extensive report from our committee in materials, so I will only present the short version. The tourism committee has discussed the proposed law in question pursuant to Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body and at our session were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, Ministry of Tourism, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Association of Croatian Travel agencies. The debate itself highlights the following: consideration of the possibility of introducing a 10% reduced VAT rate for passenger and luggage transport activities is proposed. This Article 38(3) of Directive 2006/112 EC states that national legislation may prescribe one of the two reduced VAT rates on the transport of passengers and luggage. Almost all EU countries in the Mediterranean took advantage of this possibility. Cyprus prescribes a rate of 8%, Greece 13%, Spain 8%, France 5 and a half percent, Italy 10%, etc. Small boaters will have a very difficult time competing with existing conditions with their offer to other countries in the environment. The second question is the need to lower the proposed VAT rate to concert tickets when organised by commercial organisers. The holding of concerts is an important offer in Croatia both before and after season, i.e. one way to extend the tourist season is therefore considered to consider the possibility of a differentiated VAT rate on tickets to concerts. Third, it is proposed to apply a reduced VAT rate to traditional and artistic crafts. Traditional art crafts are the best indicator of the longevity of the tradition of a nation and of the exceptional national significance. It is necessary to consider that not only through incentives given to traditional and artistic crafts by local communities but also through reduced VAT rates through traditional and artistic crafts are encouraged to self-employment. For example. The transport of tourists to small traditional ships built in Croatia represents a kind of trend of Croatian tourism and should be found ways to tax traditional art crafts with a reduced or differentiated rate. The fourth proposal is also to consider the question of charter or accommodation on board, i.e. to clarify whether accommodation capacity rental services on board will be accounted for as well as a 10% reduced VAT rate since the RH charter activity provides accommodation services or will be taxed at a full rate of 25%. There is data that Greece and Italy apply lower rates to charter services. However, since it is extremely difficult to get the information in which competing countries have solved this issue for us, representatives of the Tax Administration have been asked to consider the possibility of applying reduced rates to charters. Fifth, it is proposed to consider, under Article 61 of the restriction of the right to deduction of pre-taxes, the possibility of refusal of pre-deposits and in cases of transport of tourists and luggage to passenger vehicles with the provision of services by tourist agencies. In this regard, it is noted that the proposed model does not apply in any way to a car rental. The presentations of the Association of Tourist and Travel agencies of Crikvenica-Winodol Rivieras and tourist agencies of the island of Krk have been sent to the Committee of Tourism, which have requested the possibility of considering and introducing a differentiated VAT rate at the services of tourist agencies. However, since the analysis showed that neither of the EU Member States can apply a reduced VAT rate to the business of tourist agencies and all in accordance with the provisions of Annex 3. The application of lower rates in Croatia to this type of service is unfortunately not possible in Council Directive 2006/112 EC. The debate also pointed to an extremely important problem of private accommodation in total accommodation capacity of the Republic of Croatia, given that private accommodation according to the available data is 48% of the accommodation capacity, the majority of which is located outside the VAT system, indicated that it would be necessary to consider the way in which private accommodation owners would be stimulated to enter the VAT system as craftsmen or entrepreneurs, thereby reducing the space of the gray economy, tax evasives, and to address the possibility of pre-taxing directly and mentioning the problem of calculating VAT for tourist agencies. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote, 5 votes for and 2 abstentions to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament, the draft law on value added tax and any objections, proposals and opinions submitted in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36951	Thank you, too. Do the other representatives or committee presidents of the working bodies want a report? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36952	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When he was told that the citizens of Paris were singing about him ugly songs, and at his expense because he imposed new heavy taxes on Parisians, Cardinal Mazarin said, "Let them just sing, it's main to pay." It seems that we also sing here some songs about taxes and the most important and Mr. Finance Minister Linić that these taxes are being charged regardless of what makes it harder for citizens to live under these taxes. One of the causes of this difficult life is certainly an increase in VAT from 23% to 25%. When we recently discussed actually last week the budget rebalancing, we were talking about just the increase in VAT being caused by what few businesses we have groanings due to the increase in VAT. Minister Linic tried to convince us that VAT has little to do with economic activity, that VAT is paid by end-users. That's what we know ourselves. However, smaller consumption also chokes the economy, is bought less and I don't think a causal relationship between VAT and economy should be interpreted at all. Why did VAT increase from 23% to 25%? Remember when the VAT increased from 22 to 23% of the noise rose. I remember the debate in the Parliament at the time, the same was said from the opposition's ranks what I am saying today as an opposition representative, that this 1% VAT increase would also reflect a decrease in production. When the Kukuriku coalition came to power, it only did the same thing that by 2 index points it increased VAT and made citizens poorer and thus created the conditions in which all those who have put on savings, no one dares to spend any money, so the last piece of information we have that citizens and legal persons have put into the bank in the last year has saved 7 billion kuna. One of the questions asked by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are those who are likely to start singing songs at the window of Minister Linic is one of the many questions and why have we raised VAT from zero to 5%, and that is VAT on milk, books, medicines, orthopedic aids, scientific magazines and cinema tickets since 1.1.2013. We never got an answer to that question. The answer we know is that it would be easier to charge the register. At the same time, they told us that it's impossible, that there's a minimum rate, there's a minimum VAT rate of 17%, and the reduced rate is 5%. Since the rates below 5% simply do not exist and the European Union does not allow a preferential rate of less than 5%. However, although this Directive also imposes on the European Union 6th Directive, we see that there are countries of the European Union which have a lower VAT rate than 5%. In the United Kingdom, the zero VAT rate applies to almost its food, to all food products other than junk food, or to poor fast food. The zero rate even applies to feed for animals. In Ireland, besides food, zero rates are applied to books, as was applied to us for a time. The zero VAT rate also has Malta. There are lower VAT-priority rates than 5% of those prescribed by the directive and these are, say, 2.1% in France, then 4% in Italy, 4% in Ireland 4.8% in Luxemburg, which has one of the highest standards, if not the highest standards in the world 3%. Does this mean that the European Union has been cruel towards Croatia, that Croatia has imposed something that other countries have fought for or that our negotiators have been unable to protect the interests of Croatian citizens? Perhaps they simply adhered to the European directive that the VAT rate must not be less than 5% or are the same as the former finance ministers, as Minister Linic is now doing, gave an indication not to fight for less VAT rates than 5% because the taxes on food and taxes on books, milk, magazines, cinemas will raise us a bit of an empty register. So the answers even though we were asking questions here in the Parliament we never got why Croatia didn't fight for below 5%. I would now look back at two things that, in fact, two problems specific. One problem is, before Mr. Beus mentioned, it's a VAT on tickets to concerts. We believe that it is actually blind to stick to this rule that is imposed that VAT on tickets to concerts is 25% because and what actually seems to be, all that now seems to be, all that is organised in Croatia will be organised in neighbouring countries because all the countries, all the countries in the environment, but mostly the vast majority of European VAT countries on concert tickets have reduced VAT rates, mainly has about 7%, 8%, 9 to 10%. Croatia, the finance ministry insists the VAT is 25%. The profit is much less than the damage that seems to be the decision because if we are to drive away the few concerts from Croatia, we will also drive Croatian citizens to spend in neighbouring countries, then we will lose the money spent in Croatia when citizens of neighbouring countries come to Croatia for concerts. We won't be incomeing from hotel services, we won't be incomeing from food services, for drinks. We think that this decision, this proposal, is counterproductive and anti-fitting of the state's register for concerts. There's one argument about it, about VAT on the daily newspaper. As we know, it has been suggested that VAT be reduced to daily newspapers. We also discussed this on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which is why only daily newspapers, which is why not weekly newspapers, which is why not especially the weekly local newspapers which play a very significant role in informing citizens and perform public functions. If you resort to reducing VAT to daily newspapers then our requirement is that the same treatment also has the weekly newspapers they have, as I said, a very public role in information. However, you are likely to know, journalists and this large group of influential prominent journalists oppose the reduction of VAT to daily newspapers from 10% to 5% for reasons of very prosaic but also this very firm argument, is that when I thought in 2007, it reduced VAT from 22% to 10% in order to facilitate the business of press, the daily newspaper in particular. From then on, from 2007 until today, simple newsrooms have been firing journalists, taking in strange relationships with journalists, not in a working relationship, so-called. RPO. Redactions are decimated, and journalists say the VAT reduction from 10 to 5% will be favourable only to publishers, media tycoons, media moguls that have started to deal with excess money and other lucrative jobs, and journalists are getting fired and living in increasingly difficult conditions, they are under a lot of pressure, and they are finding it increasingly difficult to deal with journalism in commercial media news, which does not mean that something in the public media is something much better. It should only be recalled that Croatia has one of the highest VAT rates in Europe and that it is certainly what is happening in Croatia and what is happening especially in the economy, what happens to craftsmen is due to this high VAT. There is one controversial claim in the proposal of the Law on Value Added Tax where it is said that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly true that only implementation, but as soon as three lines ahead of it say the analysis found that the application of this law would reduce the revenues of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia by approximately 500 million kuna by 6 months, or billions of kuna in the future per year. I think it is impossible to say that this law will not damage the state budget or that no additional resources are needed. The budget will be damaged by new VAT applications for 500 and Croatia's entry into the EU for 500 million kunas, or billions likely to be imposed by some new donations to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia while banks remain untaxed, while the Neoliberal Government will continue to treat citizens as stepmom, and those who have the most will be treated like Superhik. He will give them, take away the weak, the poor, and give them to the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36953	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. The first is the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36954	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, a colleague, Vuksic, mentioned the role of the opposition and led the government's opposition to the decision better said about the increase in VAT, that the opposition has always fought and criticised the VAT increase in 2009 as well. Right, that's when the government increased VAT by 1%, the opposition strongly opposed that. However, by coming to power, the opposition increased VAT by 2%. I say this because we often talk about whether we are in power or in opposition, we always have to represent the same views. It is incorrect to find that the increase in VAT by 1% in 2009 has further destroyed the economy, that is, how you said production. Because, as you know, in 2009, we had a GDP decline of almost 9%, and 7% were pardoned. 2009 7% and here at the end of the term of office in 2011, we recorded in two periods, so in two quarters, growth is 0.6 and 0.8%, respectively. Thus, in the end, it ended with some kind of minimal but still growth, or we went out above the water. And finally, the conclusion about our negotiators that perhaps our negotiators were not capable enough and that they had not negotiated this whole large area well enough for Croatia. I'm sure they've done a good job, that they've done a great job because when you enter a family, in a circle that has the rules, then of course you have to adapt to those rules. One of the negotiators is Mrs Dalic's negotiator and I think she did a great job and will see it when Croatia becomes an EU member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36955	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36956	Dear Representative Kosor. Yes, I agree that all of us MPs should represent the same opinions, although we are changing and sometimes changing opinions. However, but not opinion, to represent the diametric opposite that depends on whether we are in opposition or whether we are in power. You said that by increasing the VAT from 1% from 22% to 23%, production did not collapse. The consequences of this increase in VAT, collapse and poor policies at the time of HDZ governments are feeling today. The car hasn't been rolling downhill since the time Kukuriku took over. It is well known that production is being destroyed not only at the time of your government, at the time of Racan's government, at the time of previous governments. Croatia has done everything to import from food to everything we have produced we need to import. The import lobby in Croatia is stronger than the politics of both the Parliament and the Government and the import lobby of the Croatian government. I did not say that EU negotiators were incompetent, I asked if they were incompetent. I also think they weren't incompetent negotiators, that they knew what they were doing. I'm more concerned that they were doing the job they were given and they didn't even think they were running those rules that didn't have a 5% VAT rate lower. However, the United Kingdom has shown that these rules exist in order to be violated. Why do some other countries have lower VAT rates especially for food? To protect the citizens of those countries. However, our citizens, our authorities are not protecting us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36957	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Vuksic, you said that the government did not provide for an additional cost, but only when you look at the changes to the law and when you see how much new business there is primarily for the Tax Administration, starting with that every taxpayer of value added tax will have to get a VAT identification number until most of that tax is done from the Zagreb District Office for taxpayers who are outside practically the EU, so from the change of software, and then only easily write in the law that there will be no additional costs is at least ridiculous. Because when you look at the text of the law yourself, then you'll see about taxpayers as well as the IRS. The finance ministry is creating a series of additional costs. Many of them are one-off, but for one reason or another, they are not simply foreseen. But I'm going to talk about it a little bit more in my debate. However, it is very interesting that we introduce a VAT identification number next to the OIB. The introduction of the OIB clearly defines what it stands for, and the same law defines who is in the VAT system and who is not in the VAT system. Why introduce another administrative measure? Instead of using what we have and based on this OIB, we can practically withdraw all the information we need. And it is known exactly how the system will identify those in the VAT system or not in the VAT system. But if we were to talk about technical provisions and provisions of this law, then it would take a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36959	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36960	Dear Mr Shuker, yes, the government often puts a sign of equality between itself and the state, so the government is often read in the papers when prime ministers say that something was paid by the government, that the government made something possible, as the government did, as the government did. She only distributes money collected from taxpayers. The government doesn't have its own money, it's citizens' money and poor public money control has just provided major crime in the Republic of Croatia. So probably today's government thinks it won't have the costs, it'll have citizens' expenses again. And the citizens will pay tribute to all the mistakes of this government. We just hope that the government will hear the cries and objections and that the government will understand the situation in which Croatian citizens have found themselves and that the government will take moves that will not bring citizens into a situation so that they will no longer buy anything and put money in socks but to take money out of socks and start spending it, which is absolutely certain with this tax policy they will not do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36961	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36962	My dear colleague Vuksic, I didn't mean to replicate because I'll be discussing it soon, but at the end of your debate, you said something that just can't be kept quiet. You said about this way that this government in its tax policy doesn't care about citizens and the poorer, but protects the richer. I don't know if it's familiar to you, if you were here in the Parliament at that time, you were sitting on those days when we brought in a series of tax laws here a year ago and one of them was about taxing profits, so about taxing still I'd say those who have something more when everyone wants to pay off their dividends or profits, put it in their pocket. We taxed that with a 12% rate, which wasn't until then. So, if every employee has to pay taxes from their salaries and from their income, we said that the income of those who take on the name of the capital, who pay the profits, who pay dividends, too, let them pay. That's what this government has introduced, and I don't think it's aimed at protecting the rich, and against the citizens and the poor, but exactly the opposite. And those who want their profit don't put it in their pocket and raise it but invest in new development, leave it in the firm, that's tax-free. So we act socially responsible and also how to say it in terms of stimulating economic development because whoever wants to invest doesn't pay anything on that tax money, and whoever wants to put that pay in their pocket. And it's absolutely and economically stimulating and socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36963	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36964	This rhetorical question, dear colleague, why is it that if this government has approached such a model as you presented, if this government is not what I said super hick takes to the poor to give to the rich, why has the number of millionaires in Croatia increased in times of crisis as in the world? What makes it more profitable, more and more in individuals and more poor on the other side? The vast majority of the poor. What if there's a fair policy, tax policy? After all, you know that income tax was the upper limit of 45% you reduced to 40%. What did you do that for? Why do banks still have extra profits? Why do you allow companies that have the highest profits to fire workers, and these workers end up on the road, purchasing power weakens? There are thousands and thousands of examples of how this government is doing exactly the opposite of what you just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36965	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36966	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm thinking whether I should start talking about the law or continue this replication with my colleague Vuksic, but I'm still going to talk about the law, and we can continue to replicate about these things later. But I have to say right away at the beginning of the miracle he says why does the government allow companies that stand well to extract profits and fire workers? I am the first not to do this, but give my colleague Vuksic a bill that is established constitutionally and in accordance with European rules so that we can vote him out to disable it. I don't know how we can do that, get into private entrepreneurship and ban someone in a private company from being fired or fired. I don't know how we can do that. I'd love to be against it, too, but one thing's a populist story, the other is what's real and realistic. But to go back to the VAT Act, since this law was introduced in Croatia, since 98 years ago, he has gained a number of amendments, and there is a place where it simply wanted to be, and we had to do something to comply with EU legislation and EU practice. This law is mostly in line with the EU Directive, with EU practice and it is if we look at it purely physically, compared to the previous law, much more extensive, much larger, and there is not a lot of newspapers that will directly refer to citizens, because it simply applies EU law form, and way and express how it is in the EU. In this sense, this law is a little hard to read, and it will be hard for people who understand finance to get around it, but it's just like that. Perhaps it would be good at the beginning of the law until the second reading to make a term, to introduce what the concept means that it could be easier to follow the law itself later on. But I say except for that part that is consistent with the EU and that I don't want to talk about much, because it's just that, because we can't change it, and I'm going to try to talk more about the parts that we can talk about. Of course there are some so-called unpopular measures in this bill of law that are precisely because of this harmonisation as it is... the church and religious institutions must pay VAT on goods obtained from the outside, etc., artists, VAT artists, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is simply nothing we can do to change that. I've heard a series of regrets about how it's not right, etc. However, we simply have to accept it at this time, we cannot change it whether someone likes it or not, but it is simply because it is a harmonisation, because that is what we have accepted, if I can say so by joining the EU and it is not worth discussing today. What is positive, in any case, and what results from this harmonisation, from this law, which is that, when it comes to importing is different, it will not have to be paid within the time limit of 8, 15 or 30 days, so there will be no deadline and it will not have to be paid, it will be a great aid to liquidity to the economy, but it will only be served as an accounting category and that means that when an entrepreneur makes an account of the VAT for the previous month then the obligation arising from imports will include it as an obligation but will not have to pay it physically, but only that difference resulting from the calculation, in the entire account for that previous month. What brings the most attention here in the debate so far is about tax rates. Although the tax rates in this law have not changed significantly, because we didn't have the needs of a large one, I repeat, a year ago we changed some things in this law, those that we felt were necessary and necessary. Because the tax policy actually shows the policy of a particular government and we are that policy, I will remind you as soon as we come to power and show in this segment of tax policy, both about VAT and about other taxes. I will remind you that only then did you lower your rate to the basic living foods to 10%, sugar, oil, fat, water from the pipe that we all drink, which is what our utility companies give us, to children's food, so what we thought was very important. We reduced VAT, VAT rates in tourism, i.e. in catering and hotel services, for all food and drink deliveries other than alcohol because we wanted to equate our restaurants, restaurants and hotels with those in the environment, with countries that compete with us in tourism because they also reduced that rate, so that by that basis, because there is a higher VAT on us, our tourism economy is not more competitive, i.e. in that part, not more competitive as VAT is. There we have leveled them, although it is a billion kuna this year, only this year less in the budget of the Republic of Croatia on this basis but we expect the tourism economy to return it in another way through an increased number of nights, an increased number of guests, through price reductions, through the rest of that VAT that will remain for the companies to invest it in new development, these are the expectations of this government, with the right expectations because we have really given the big wind in the back of the tourist economy. We also introduced that there is no return to pre-presence, so if I may say so, we taxed definitely with VAT and all personal purchases, personal cars and all costs resulting from them, so fuel, maintenance, etc. Because we want the entrepreneurs who use these cars for personal purposes to pay as well as the citizens, not to be privileged in this regard to the citizens. We also taxed the team because we want to send a message to our economy to release the national tax because it is not our goal that our directors, regardless of whether they were public or private companies, eat and drink without taxes, but rather to invest, develop their companies and thus stimulate and encourage them. So through a series of measures of tax policy and this prose we simply wanted to direct and show what our policy is, and direct where we want the Croatian economy to go. I'll remind you that at an annual level somewhere around $ 4.5 billion we left the economy with changes in its tax policy so that it can have more breath, more money, more trade funds, more investment. From our first reduction in the rate of contribution to health care, to the fact that we have recently said that we have reduced the VAT rate in tourism, to a reduction in contributions to water, forests, etc. So serious money has remained in the economy and we rightly expect the economy to return to development, a new employment unfortunately until we see it so far, but we want to believe it will happen. It was here and today the objection that the general rate is still high, 25%. It's true that she's tall, we could have that rate without having that kind of or reducing but burdening the economy even more, for example. that we did not release tourism, that we did not lower the tax rate for tourism, that we did not leave in the name of reduced tax on the economy three billion we could reduce the VAT rate because the effect would therefore be the same budget. So money would be taken into the budget not from the basis of VAT but from the basics of these others, but would be burdened by the economy. We could cut my tax rate by not funding the Peace Fund because from the budget of 16 billion somewhere, 16 billion is given to pensions. How? Increase the pension rate, contributes to even more burden on the economy. But we don't want to just do that, we want the economy not to burden it more than to reduce it, release it, and we keep doing it. We hope that we do not do this in vain and that the results in the economy will come with new employment and increased development perhaps this year. There have been a lot of debates over some of the changes in the rate offered in this law and above all it is about lowering the rate from 10 to 5% for publishing daily newspapers and those printed on paper, and there has been a series of discussions about it, and it itself took part in discussions organised by the Croatian Journalist Society, and there are various suggestions that this is unnecessary to extend to all and to weeks, so our Committee on Information, the media in this regard, took a position. What I think may be that if only daily newspapers are left to throw out magazines that come out daily because at least I don't know that none of them have a daily magazine. The magazines had, but they're not such dynamics to come out daily. Of course, the question is what will happen to those 24 million kunas that will not end up in the budget because if there is a decrease in the rate from 10 to 5%, it will remain for publishers, of course, that it is not our goal to put these funds in their own pocket through profits or in some other way, but simply to help maintain this activity and develop because we see that the publishing of daily newspapers is in a serious crisis. It's simple life that makes some things immeasurable, the development of modern technologies makes the daily newspaper lose the game, lose the race. We see that we see for ourselves how we behave if we want to get quick and accurate information, or fast, but I won't say exactly, is it true, since then. Quick information about what's going on in the country and the world. We go to the portals, we're all on aids on all kinds of iPads, iPhones, laptops, etc. And you simply have information about what happened five minutes ago in the country or the world. The daily newspaper in this sense is late, they are already in this sense how to say they have old information but it is necessary to keep that tradition of daily newspapers, although the question is now I am bringing it up as my own personal thinking about what will happen in 15, 20 years at any time whether the daily newspaper will be like this or simply lose the race with the speedy information that we get through the information media, that's another question, but in any case, we want to read the daily newspaper. It's a traditional and cultural question, a cultural question. I think we should support the publishing of daily newspapers even by lowering the tax rate. Of course, how much space there is in the budget needs to be seen whether in general for all newspapers, so the weeks should also introduce it in a way that needs to be seen. There was, of course, a legitimate observation by the journalist society that this was not introduced for the yellow press, etc. However, the question of who can simply assess what the yellow print is or not. That's a serious question. The request was still many, from the organization of concerts, shipowners, florists, hairdressers, traditional crafts, etc. All of this should be considered until another reading and, of course, considering above all the criteria and that is whether the budget can bear it is one thing. The other thing that doesn't matter, but not most importantly, is that the second thing that matters is to take care of the protection of citizens' standards, so when we lower the VAT rate, we make sure that we make sure that we protect the standard of citizens first. And the third thing is to ensure competitiveness and activity, that these activities are not competitors in relation to the environment because if they are uncompetitive compared to the environment, we are afraid that these services will go elsewhere outside Croatia, as is the case with concerts, etc. simply because we have an increased VAT rate we do not bring into an uncompetitive position of this activity and that their activity here is reduced or completely abolished. A similar story as we did in tourism. A lot of the debate has also sparked a proposal in this bill on the billing or payment of VAT when it comes to craftsmen. We believe that, at this time, given the difficult situation in the economy and the problems with liquidity and non-payment that exists in the economy, maybe one prolongat of a year, a year and a half, at least since 2015, that in that part of craftsmen we do not touch or leave the existing system of payment of VAT, therefore, according to the paid realisation but not according to the fragmented but also that in the perspective we also equate craftsmen with small entrepreneurs because there is no need to create a difference between small entrepreneurs and craftsmen because all those who have low traffic can talk about what traffic is, i.e. a million, two, three, annual traffic to simply put into the same position and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen and not only because there is no reason to separate them. Given that this is the first reading, it is good that this law goes into two readings, given that there are many good and serious discussions and remarks there is plenty of time for us to discuss all this more and to adopt a new law at any time before we enter the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36967	Thank you, too. A replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36968	Dear colleague Jelusic only replicas at the beginning of your presentation when asked, how do you prevent profitable companies from firing workers? By law. You have referred this question to the absolute freedom of the market market, capitalism, you are, in that sentence, a greater advocate of the Chicago school than Freidman himself. How can you do that? By law. You're saying how by law? So we'll write it to you if you don't know how to protect the workers we'll suggest. Here I promise that we will propose how workers can be protected that in the most profitable companies, the two companies that certainly most profit can have or have the most profits are Croatian Telecom and INA. And if you don't know about it on the other hand, you know it's almost $400,000, 380 thousand I don't know how many thousands of unemployed, on the other hand your coalition stands for and announces all the time that it will liberalize the Labour Act. Now the workers are fired by eye, now they end up on the road when the employer wants to. After that, you won't even be hired, I guess you'll get pardoned on toilet paper to confirm that he's working that day, and tomorrow maybe. We'll be back in the 1930s at a time of great crisis. If the state doesn't know how to protect the workers, then the state doesn't make sense. The only thing that makes sense is that the state is not a flag, anthem, a name and a coat of arms, the state is a human being, and people need to be protected. There are ways, look at the laws in Scandinavian countries, so you will see that profitable companies can't fire workers because the boss wants and orders that this month you make a lot more money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36969	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36970	Mr. Vuksic, you of course want to be more Catholic than the Pope that I can't blame you it's your right, but you won't get away with it. Surely, this government says that work and workers should be firmly protected and in this sense their working relationship, only in this we act very responsibly because we are in power and we are not in a position and we can't really talk because what we are talking about and we need to spend. I'm against it, and we're all against it, for example. as you said HT lay off workers, however how do you effectively prevent it? We had recently here in the Parliament a law on where we taxed all telecommunications services not only HT but also others for 6%, so we had a huge pressure and we had to cancel that tax with the promise that those 300-year-olds, 400 million at the annual level, will invest because of that 6% tax. We want to see these investments, and we want to see exactly that they don't fire people and invest, but if that doesn't happen, we don't have a lot of effective means to force them to. We can't bring their investment plans or their employment plans. Unfortunately, we can't do that. It's long gone from our hands. Unfortunately for the fact that the state manages companies, I understand with you, only that for 20 years in Croatia has been gone since we are in the market economy and we really can't change anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36971	Thank you very much. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36972	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the bill of law that has been passed over the past 18 years since it was passed in this vis-à-vis parliament, however, has always caused heated debates, but today it is being conducted in quite a chamber atmosphere. I don't understand why, but so be it. But what I'd like to say in the beginning is that this bill is a huge delay. So most of these things that are defined by this law are generally known and they technically comply with EU legislation except for a few specific wetlands of this government, but I'll talk about it a little later. So he's late with this bill, this law was supposed to be passed a few months ago for the reason that taxpayers, especially those who do business abroad, have to change a lot of things, adapt their software and their knowledge to be able to implement this law in a good way. But it didn't happen the same way it didn't happen, and we were expecting the HDZ club to cut the VAT rate. So that increase of 8.7% that followed last year will be reduced for a simple reason because the government is always boasting that it has improved the charge, that it is a better charge of budget revenues, and that they have also put the expenditure side of the state budget under control. However, since the VAT rate has not been reduced in the past year and a half, this means that these stories of quality charge, of old debts, about putting under the control of the expenditure side of the budget simply do not drink water. And if the value added tax was neutral as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, the first step is to take the money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as this government did last year, take about 5 billion kuna and say it's neutral. But if you've taken someone who doesn't have a few billion kunas, then you've put him in a situation where he can't buy two or three of the products he bought before he only buys one, and then it's a negative reflection on entrepreneurship. It's a fact of one thing to say is an economic legality that cannot be escaped from. The bill itself, to be honest with you, I think that the colleagues who wrote it should have given this law first and foremost to the linguists. Because sometimes it's not the best way to translate everything literally from English, it needs to be brought in a little bit with the Croatian language, a little expression. And then the same thing looks far more pytical, far more readable and far better understood because when you read the law a little bit better then you will see that over 95% of taxpayers have exceptional problems understanding this law and individual definitions. That's why I said this law had to be passed months ago. A new style of law writing is also introduced where some articles call for the previous ones, so this, therefore, is very difficult to follow and read this law. But what I would like to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is a few of the provisions and specificities of this law, I say these are the specific nomotivities of this government, primarily the craftsmen. First, it announces that craftsmen will pay value added tax according to the bills, and then the shooting of two ministers if it will be, it will not be. However, one fundamental question is whether this provision will enter into force if the Income Tax Act is amended. Because according to the Income Tax Act, the basic principle of bookkeeping in craftsmen is so-called cash or cash or cash system to book in income what you paid for, actually what you charged and in expenditure, book what you paid for. So if you don't agree with the value added tax, then this provision is ridiculous. And that best speaks of how unprepared it went into this, the provision of this law. But it's not just there, it's not just craftsmen, it's not just about who's going to pay the value added tax. But what concerns me more is in that opening part that is very short, which is the fiscal effect of this law and whether new funds are needed to implement this law. Look, just one provision that importers do not pay VAT on imports at the border as they have done so far, but the VAT obligation arises at the time of the sale of goods or services done, you are moved by a period of payment by a month and a half, two days. And as when introducing a value added tax in the year 98, paying a value added tax when crossing the customs line is practically in a month, two and a half, two or three forced taxpayers to pay value added tax, so now it sets aside. And what's going to happen to us in this financial year, and they're going to follow us as long as there's a law like this is about 700 million kuna reduced income from value added tax. So when you look at the total turnover of goods and services, they have not been reduced. But given the amount of money that's in the so-called. the tax turnover of those 700 million were reduced, that is something that will be missing at the end of the year because, look at all imports from the 11th and 12th months of the month when the biggest traffic and that is the 12th obligation to pay VAT will actually occur at the time of the first calculation, it is January 20th and payment until 30th. So it's that month, month and a half. So, we've had what we had before the increase in the mass of tax funds, now we're shrinking. And the government just didn't see it coming. Because she doesn't have it in the draft budget. It talks about 500 million, 500 million kuna are funds that will return or that Croatian entrepreneurs will pay elsewhere in another member of the European Union and will be recognised as a paid tax, which is that 500 million kuna this year and somewhere around a billion kuna next year. So this kind of bill of law itself is simply something else that you'll see in some other laws. Because now we have a set of some 16, 17 financial laws that are clearly telling you about it, maybe colleagues from the tax administration have analysts, maybe if we had been under-strettretched, maybe there would have been a quality debate here and maybe we could have come up with some kind of solution that would have been better. Cost. The IRS will definitely have the cost. Because if you get 10, 11 articles, it doesn't matter now, or 12 mentions that the return will be carried out by the district office of the city of Zagreb. The existing capacity of technical and human capacities simply makes it impossible, so it will have to be in line with new changes to the law and invest something in the tax administration to make it effective and there is also a new cost for taxpayers, because if nothing else, all taxpayers will have to change their software especially for those working with abroad, so very few of them working only in Croatia will not and those working with abroad will have to change their software for the calculation, especially for the production of these VAT forms. As for the abolition of certain rights both entrepreneurs and citizens of the Republic of Croatia had, I will look back on only three. Elimination of free zones. What's going to happen, here's just one example, a free zone in Varazdin. Several thousand employees and the question is whether the one who came to the plant there hired several thousand employees if the free zone was lifted, tax treatment changed, he simply has no interest in working in Croatia anymore because he becomes overpriced. So, that is, the government may have a solution and an answer to that, but since the Deputy Minister did not refer to it in his opening statement and I believe that it is one of the most important provisions that are being changed in this law that should have been said about it. Relieves are being lifted for Croatian defenders and donations to religious communities. Your colleagues and colleagues if you see that your VAT exemptions are regulated by articles 39 to 56 and when you see what is taxed on added value. No matter what someone tells me, it is negotiated, perhaps negotiated, Croatian defenders as very explicit, but through these provisions of relief between Articles 39 and 56 could find space for Croatian defenders and especially for religious communities. Because when you look at who has all the right to have certain materials printed, printed, this, what, for the release mentioned in these articles, I can only say, as far as religious communities are concerned, they can be easily implemented through Article 44, all that the religious communities used, except for building material. So somewhere you get rid of religious communities, but if those who are very similar, different associations like this or those have the right to written materials, then they have the right to religious communities. And why this provision for religious communities was introduced, all to understand, and now you can see who had the most benefits of this, not a Catholic church, but some religious communities that have outside help far greater for the simple reason that in the Homeland War, sacral objects, primarily Catholic churches, were the most and then others. And the logical thing is that all those who were interested and even those who might have formally had nothing to do with the Republic of Croatia to help restore it. I'm saying, I don't see any reason why, first of all, I can't get through Article 44, I can't even get through religious communities. I've only mentioned this three terms, and there's still talk about it, which I think should be taken into consideration. VAT rates 25, 10 and 5%. First of all, I want to say about tourism, the differentiated rate in tourism introduced the HDZ Government in 2006 to all accommodation and all organised accommodation and services of the agency that are related to it. A 10% rate has been introduced, now a 10% rate has only been introduced to catering. And when the rate of 5% on bread and milk was introduced because these are the provisions and directives of the European Union then we suggested that the 10% rate not only be for food, hospitality, but also for Croatian citizens, given the prices that have grown to be 10% VAT rates for fresh meat. Unfortunately, that is not accepted, although I say that by boasting that the payment and everything else has been improved, I think that it should have been accepted as well. Also unclear is this land provision, whether tomorrow's land will be taxed by 25% and what about so-called land. Used real estate and real estate that they have... among citizens. Because when citizens buy real estate then pay VAT on it, they do not have the right to deduct a pre-tax as legal persons do. Whether the Real estate tax law is abolished and whether, for example, buying an apartment among citizens is still taxing 5%, or how some announce 3%, so young people who have no money anyway and very difficult to obtain credit will end that tax relief they had. Because look, a terrible loss for the state budget is several hundred thousand kunas, and when 5 million euros is paid by a guarantee for a private company, then it's no money. It is 5 million euros guarantee you know how much, so it is more than 40 years of tax relief for buying the first apartment of young Croatian families because it is several hundred thousand kunas a year. But it's also a very interesting article that speaks of what a VAT bond account should look like. Among other things, it's said there has to be a so-called so-called. That VAT identification number, although I don't understand why it is... but I'm interested in one thing, what will happen to tax bonds that put out a bill of several thousand kunas to caterers, and the bonds are exposures to that account in accordance with the Fiscalization Act. The appearance of this account is not consistent with the appearance of the VAT Act. What will the Inspector do when he comes, which law he will uphold, whether the VAT Act or the Fiscalization Act? Because to be clear, if we talk about tourism, you have these higher amounts, which will happen if the tax inspector asks the bill to look as defined by the VAT Act, not Article 2(3). The fiscalization law. And in the end, submitting forms to the 20th and charging by the 30th. I would only like colleagues from the ruling coalition to remind me of those strong VAT laws that they sent while they were in opposition when they proposed other things, not to charge VAT,... a realised charge for craftsmen but also for all legal persons. But times change, so probably opinions change...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36973	Thank you very much. Time's up. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36974	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you said at first that you expected a reduction in the VAT rate to occur. In my presentation on behalf of the club, I said that the reduction in VAT rates came for certain things, and above all I talked about tourism, etc., i.e. catering, I talked about reducing health contributions. Because what is the policy of this government is, first, to unburden the economy, second, not to be in debt and to act responsibly and to do so. So we've cut down on the economy by about 4.5 billion kuna. If we hadn't done that, we could have reduced the tax rate from 25 to 23% in general, or that we were in debt 15 billion a year like your government did, and not 10 as it is now, we could have reduced the tax rate by 2 to 3 index points again. So we could have really cut back, but if we had acted irresponsiblely like you, so that we'd be in debt as much as we can't, we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't, we didn't have to, we didn't have to, we didn't have to, we didn't have to, we didn't have to, we didn't have to, we didn't have to, we didn't have to worry about the economy. So we want finally to be responsible in this country government and behave and to live off our work each and every country, so the state what it gets to spend it. And we finally balanced the budget, that what makes the budget as its regular income without any debt, is that much of the expenditure. Because the full debt, so what we're in charge of is going to return interest on loans, so only what's due is spent. We've finally balanced it. In the end, only about abolishing privileges for the defenders of the religious community, etc. You say we may have negotiated it ourselves. Yes, it is, it has been negotiated by you, your government has been led, under your staff negotiations with the EU have been conducted, and it is not correct that what you have negotiated is now what you are saying to us that we are installing and implementing this. It just ends the work that you started and did and the minimum would be correct without you complaining about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36975	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36976	Well, of course, the response to the raised citizens of the Republic of Croatia's electricity price is 30% with that increased VAT and the price of gas with that increased VAT is 45%. It's a huge responsibility for citizens who have 370 grand on the stock market. So that's very responsible. And you're also all that you've listed as giving the economy, so where are these economic results? The economy sinks and sinks more and more, you say you've run so much and so much money into the economy. But what's a fact and what's visible is that you threw Croatian citizens on a beggar stick because you took 5 billion kunas from their pockets. That's the facts. This story of two percent of the contributions ask any entrepreneur, no one felt it. That when you put on a bunch, then those two billion and 600 look a lot. But when you divide it into several hundred thousand health contributions, then it disintegrates and no one benefits from it, and ultimately, the macroeconomic indicators tell you best. And as for responsible behavior, look at your deficit, it's $11 billion. You haven't cut a single expense. Those poorest cities and municipalities, therefore, the poorest group of Croatians, you have abolished any investment in education, that their children have computers, you have abolished the possibility that their hospitals or health homes might get some kind of apparatus that rich cities have. It's, of course, responsible behavior. And you can tell from your budget. So poor schools, these kids don't need a computer because you've shut down all the investments from school. As for the hospital, you've cut it down on the expense side. The reduction of your deficit is exclusively that you took 5 billion kunas for Croatian citizens and that you abolished investments primarily in education and health care. These are the facts that anyone who looks at the budget will see inside. I don't need that much philosophy, but I'm saying this, I'm just thinking of those laws that you proposed while we were in power. If only one of those laws had been proposed, I would have accepted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36977	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36978	Dear colleague Shuker, you said you expected this government to reduce VAT. I was sure that it would reduce VAT because they announced, and with that being said that this government is responsible and people who are responsible keep their promises. So it's irresponsible not to keep a promise, tell people if we come to power we'll cut the VAT and then increase the VAT. I think it's irresponsible, and first of all it's a lie. Not only is it irresponsible, it's not true, let's be gentle. You said that importers don't pay VAT by import act but by an act of sale and so there won't be any money for a month and a half, somewhere around 700 million kuna and that the analysis is wrong. The law analysis is wrong, so I don't think it's even the first time. We're gonna feel the analysis on your own back. Then something will happen and then we'll discuss it again in the Parliament and then we'll discuss the rebalances again, how not to fill the state register. One very interesting thing all the time is that we populists who only use words to protect workers. What you were saying about the free zones, asking what happened to the employees, and who's thinking about the employees? Those who entered free zones entered under certain conditions of business. Now these business conditions change, with a deep change. What about the workers? The employers will leave, so no work, no profit. It's a close link between work and profit. All points to the fact that even this law did not give much thought to the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36979	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36980	Yes, fellow Vuksic, all that you said in principle is content about my sentence that the law is a few months late. Because if you have radical changes then you have to tell those who are on time that they are gaining power, because look at all those who are in free zones, all the freighters, that's all there is to live people, working people, that's what's going to happen to these people. And when I'm talking about VAT cuts, watch every day you listen to this High House praise about how tax discipline was introduced. Look, the budget's been since 2008. In fact, since 2004-2008 it has grown 50% without a single tax being increased, although some taxes have been reduced. If it's not an effect of tax discipline, then we can talk about it. That a pompous list of debtors who entertained Croatian citizens and media was announced for a month is the result today if you charge only 300 million kunas out of 50 billion, I will not comment on what effect it is. Also, the Fiscalization Act, yes, is nice when you say a percentage of how much traffic has increased. However, because of Croatian citizens, it would be to say how nominal it is for reasons to see what we occupied 60% of the human capacities in the tax administration and what a fiscal effect it is, whether we again treat craftsmen as we did in the early 1980s when that famous cash register was imported and when they thought they would collect big money. In fact, there's order to be done, and there's no one against order. Only if you announce some measures pompously will you expect to increase revenues, if revenue increases then expect to reduce the tax that definitely affected all the bad macroeconomic indicators that are in Croatia because if you take 5 billion kuna from the pocket, the 5 billion kuna is missing in whatever part of your turn. And these are facts that you can't escape from. That's why I say it's a comfortable atmosphere when we discuss VAT, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36981	Thank you very much. Now we have three replicas of representatives at the stand of our own club. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36982	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Shuker, you mentioned the abolition of the exemption from paying value added tax in the import of passenger cars for Croatian citizens, and I would like to say that this is absolutely incorrect regardless of what is negotiated to be released, that this measure will be abolished and that the benefits they had and the possibility of getting a car certainly exist in a way that a 5 per cent tax or a minimum rate is applied to imports of cars for the needs of Croatian defenders. It's about people with disabilities from the Homeland War from the second to the fourth group who were released. So this government has no sense of sensitivity or recognition for those who have lost body parts, who have actually been helped by the car in their movement and their work. I think this clearly shows that also to Croatian defenders, i.e. the disabled, the dead, the dead, their families and the children of those families have no relationship, and neither is this one that could be 5% car import tax. Same to the church, and all of these are very well-known reasons. We'll give it to the press, they'll write nice about us, and we'll end our disabled people who gave their lives, body parts for the Republic of Croatia. They will be abolished and we will not put a minimum rate on them, and a minimum rate of 5% would meet the needs and facilitate the procurement of these basic aids for that category and that group of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36983	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36984	That fellow Djakic, if the EU directives are looking for something then if you want to apply it, then determine something that will be the least harmful or least affected by the one to whom it applies. The same for Croatian defenders. To be honest, if at the time the second one was introduced was among the 5% rate then it could have been applied automatically to Croatian defenders. If it will not be applied there it can be treated as a social measure on the spending side, so in some programme and measures of the Ministry of Defence, now, of course, when these lists have been published and there has been a lot, a lot of those who do not belong there, and you can see for yourself what happened. So, this ministry might have to worry better about what will happen with this measure of abolishing these reliefs for Croatian defenders. After all, that's why it's the ministry. But I'm saying, they're dealing with other things because in this country all the lists are being published just not the ones they should be. And I think that Croatian defenders, especially those who went into certain economic activities, were thinking of renovating their machines, etc., without talking about disabled people. I think you should think about them. And if it couldn't already be applied at a rate of 5%, then the Defense Department should have thought about a program that would back up what they've lost. But you will, you won't have this one right. So it didn't come into the budget. If tomorrow will come revenue into the budget let's just make the opposite side on the spending side and simply put that money back once again in a roundabout way where they belong, and these are Croatian defenders. Because it's the same story as the media. So, at the state level, given, and those local media who are the only source of information on local issues of Croatian citizens are not affected by a reduced VAT rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36985	We've got another replica from the club on your display. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36986	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, at the beginning of his presentation on behalf of the club, you did just say a key sentence. Today, a reduction in the overall VAT rate was to be discussed. Some have found this ridiculous, but this is not funny in view of the fact that 1.7 we are entering EU markets with the second highest VAT rate. In fact, today in the Croatian Parliament, among other things, we should discuss the impact of what will happen to 1.7. So with the second highest VAT rate and with the fastest growing retail trade in the EU, which is ICOMERS or Internet trade. With the second highest VAT rate, 25% will have a serious problem. Does anyone wonder how our entry into the EU will affect the retail trade that is otherwise the latest data from the State Statistics Office said it fell in January this year compared to last January 5.9%. After 1 / 1, what will be the further impact? Secondly, given the conditions of general insolvency in Croatia, whether the motive for importing goods into Croatia will be even higher since there will be no pre-tax for imports of goods into the Republic of Croatia. And instead of discussing these things, instead of discussing how to encourage small entrepreneurship with VAT collection at the expense of what happens not only in the wider region, but also in some EU countries, it is actually debated whether craftsmen should pay VAT immediately or at the expense. So the only reason after we lost thousands of crafts, thousands of jobs why today someone wants to be a craftsman or even tries to survive as a craftsman is because it's not about financing the state in advance, it's about paying VAT when and if it charges under the terms of economic collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36987	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36988	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, my colleague Milosevic, which is why I said I would be glad that today one of those variants of the Bill on Value Added Tax that my colleagues sent while they were in opposition appeared. Among other things, one of the revolutionary ideas was that entrepreneurs were paying value added tax at the time of collection, not at the time when the service was made or when the goods were sold. But look, we're always talking about the liquidity being cut, the pay order being put in place. If a payment order has been introduced, then I think more provisions when VAT is paid are not at all disputed. For if it is a payment within 30 days or 40 days, then it is for you to bear the form until the twentieth, a payment until the thirties. So you're in this kind of circle, and that's why I said I expected the government to propose a rate reduction. On the one hand, they introduced a discipline in tax collection, increased revenues, so they gained the conditions to cut the tax that paid the budget in the first year of the term of office. But it turns out that's not the case. It is also said that in Croatia there is order in paying each other between economic operators. If that's the case, when VAT is paid, it's no longer a dispute. If everyone pays everyone, then it's not at all a dispute. But apparently the truth is a little different, a little more painful. It is unfortunately felt by Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen and therefore came to us with a proposal of tax on added value as it is. Not only will legal persons not only receive VAT payments to the paid realisation but this right is also abolished by Croatian bonds. And that best shows you the picture that is ruling at the moment in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Now, if someone says that 2.5 billion helped reduce the health contribution to the economy, then you can imagine what help it would be for Croatian citizens to get back at them the 5 billion kuna he took from them from the basis of an increase in VAT rates. I think the citizens would be overjoyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36989	Thank you very much. A new replica within the club and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36990	Dear Mr. Schucker, you spoke about the release of VAT to religious communities, and you specifically pointed out that religious objects died in the Homeland War. According to the commission, there were 1,100 religious facilities that were injured in the Homeland War, indirect damage to that part of the cultural heritage amounted to over 300m euros. You are well aware of your well-respected colleague's situation today with these facilities in Kostanica, Petrinja, Glina and those where these facilities have been particularly injured and have not yet been restored to the end. What we must say here in particular is that both under the Constitution and under the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods that these objects are actually owned by the Republic of Croatia and that the Republic of Croatia has a special duty to take care of such objects and it is still totally unacceptable at this moment to go to an increase in VAT precisely in the form of the restoration of such monuments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36991	Thank you very much. One notice. We shall notify that in 10.48 it is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. It is the Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly of the Croatian HNS and the Honorable Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36992	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy with Associates, Your Honors fellow Members and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, a few things and comments from this law. First, what we are pleased about is that this law, regardless of the time foreseen for its application, is the obligation to apply it from 1.07., still goes into two readings because there are certain provisions that are worth reviewing, to comment on both the debates between the other and this debate, and of course from the first to the second reading. What about VAT? Whenever the VAT Act comes to this assembly, whenever it comes and when a public debate opens on it, it certainly has its weight, regardless of the relatively peaceful atmosphere, I agree with my colleague Shuker, today in this assembly. Because it is absolutely clear that value added tax has a fundamental impact on movements in the economy but also on population standards, on price developments, on a number of social and economic issues and questions. Law '95, in force from 1 January '98. It has also experienced some changes in the introduction of lower VAT rates, even when it comes to correction, i.e. an increase in VAT base rates. First in 2009 from 22 to 23% and then now in 2012 from 23 to 25%. And of course, what opened space to the opposition at that time to both today and today, and what was actually a major dilemma of power and then and this one now is a matter of priority? Whether in times of recession and poor budget filling, opening holes in the budget, i.e. increasing deficits whether to attempt value added tax by increasing the rate to stabilise the income side and balance it out as much as possible with expenditure or to look at these aspects in which colleagues in the previous part of the debate discussed the impact on citizens' standards, impact on certain parts of the economy, impact on the quality of life. But when we open this issue, then we must also remind ourselves of the debate on some other laws, discussions on budget rebalancing and discussions on the budget in general in this House when amendments are given, and when a better health service is required, when more pensions are required, when investments are required in health care, in education, in infrastructure, an increase in the general standard of living for citizens. All that, it's completely clear, costs. And we all know the truth that the incomes that we make on the basis of a health contribution do not satisfy the needs, and especially the unspeakable wishes in the field of health, that the incomes we make on the basis of contributions to pension insurance and not nearly satisfy the current level of pensions that I stress is low and insufficient, unfortunately, for the life that we would all want to give to our pensioners. And then you get an answer to the question of what to do, you're forced to do what of course has its negative conjecture when you see it from another perspective, raised VAT. However this law raises the question of the survival and future of Croatian craftsmen. That and as a former craftsman and a good knower of opportunities in craftsmanship I am obliged to say also as a representative and a man, and of course also on behalf of the HNS club. An interesting idea is the proposal of colleagues Jelusic, at least on prolongation in the application of a provision leaving the cashier business and in which Croatian craftsmen would be equated with companies. Is it possible today, regardless of the fact that we have raised the rate through other laws, or the censorship in which the craftsmen enter the VAT system to 230 000 kuna, so that part of the seasonal crafts and traditional crafts that basically have fewer incomes will remain outside the VAT system, whether that is sufficient measure, the question opens. Yet today, a series of craftsmen have slightly higher incomes and come into the shears of this situation. Whether raising the census to 800,000 kuna for those who have the right to a three-month VAT account, whether it helps, is probably certain that, however, what will be even more important one day and when, whether now or with a certain delay we are going to apply this provision to leave the cashier's business. What is most important is that in the context of the application of the Financial Business Act, we ensure that everyone in this country, but I stress everyone to the last, from the smallest to the largest, pays within 30 days. Because of them, both large and small depends on what is, what is called orderly business and the survival of all economic operators from the smallest to the greatest. I would also like to draw attention on behalf of the HNS Club to the problem of Croatian shipowners who have articulated it through a letter delivered to the resolution ministries, which concern the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also mentioned by a colleague, Beus Richembergh, on behalf of the Assembly Committee on Tourism. This is a real situation in which Croatian shipmen come under VAT rates which is dramatically higher than all countries in the environment, all Mediterranean countries that have a maximum VAT rate on such a type of service up to 10% and some significantly lower. For that reason, of course I appeal to the Resort Ministry to take a look at that remark as well. Third, what I can say from experience as the mayor of a city that becomes a tourist destination, the City of Sibenik, is also a problem with the collection of concert tickets. Namely, one if not the most attractive with the cultural monuments of the town of Sibenik and the environment that the city has, one of the greatest advantages in the tourist offer is precisely concerts and fun life which has been much more dynamic and rich in recent years than it has been and which attracts, let's say when it refers to the Teraneo festival for young people and up to ten, fifteen thousand visitors to Sibenik, in the heart of the season. There is a concern about what kind of reflection the increase in price of tickets to concerts and musical events might have. The Sibenik-Dalmatia Shanson is also a very successful festival that attracts numerous visitors to Sibenik. So, are we actually going to close the story, run out of tax revenues, because mentioning festivals, events without sponsors, and the donation of units of local self-government, ministries and other legally possible donors could not survive under current tax conditions. Therefore, it remains concerned that this application of the law could create problems in that part of the cultural offer and could not possibly agree with the approach in which music culture would vary compared to other lower cultures in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we believe that we should examine this thing and perhaps put it in the context of culture, as a culture, rather than single out any domain outside the general context. Finally, in order not to make the debate completely peaceful, it is difficult to hear little about this Croatian Parliament, when even for the purposes of parliamentary battle, political battles and attempts to make the debate dynamic, so in a perfiduous way they put into debate children's computers, schools, alluded to an unequal approach to education of those in small schools, or those in large schools. And it's even worse when it comes to those people who paid the greatest price anyone alive can pay in the Homeland War, and those who paid the worst, not to speak. Regardless of the replicas I may receive after this conclusion of the debate, I am obliged to note, the conscience of the parliamentary representative tells me that ladies and gentlemen should nevertheless come to a level of fair and polite debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36993	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation, he reported the replica to the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36994	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry there aren't any of our linguists, Vice President Stazic, but I'll start by saying I don't agree with you. I hope it learns into the definition of replicas so they'd like to show us that we can only discuss it. I don't agree with you in the part where you talked about balancing the budget, about income and expenditure, and then the conclusion that in a more perfiduous way in the debates, children's, small schools, children's computers and the purchase of funds. In fact, I wanted to say that I agree that part of the income that we voluntarily give up and in this way will harm the satisfaction of some other needs that should be met by the state budget. And so I ask myself, and I ask you the question of this article in 38th, how did the promoter see that at the same level of tax that is calculated on bread, milk, drugs or scientific editions at the same level as the VAT on newspapers and magazines and only those printed on paper? According to some illustrations, countries are denied a reduction in this VAT rate of about 150 million kuna per year from taxes collected on newspapers as defined. And I don't understand the government's idea of giving up that income except that it can impose very strange conclusions that we have 3 weeks or more to hold local elections and that it can also affect the policy of each of the parties in the media that will receive this eased financial burden to say which ones they were carrying. I doubt the idea of reducing VAT on this was an idea to raise the standard of journalists working for those media. I'm afraid it's meant to be with other reasons entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36995	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36996	Very briefly, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, if you and I agreed in general, we'd probably be sitting in a bench somewhere closer to each other. It is your right to disagree, of course, and the details of the questions you have asked yourself, so let's just say I'll be so honest with you that it would be much more meaningful if you had asked this question to a respected Deputy Minister who is an expert in this area. I wouldn't really have anything to comment on. I don't take myself as the right to present myself as such, knowing the details of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36997	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36998	Comrade Baranovic, no one has abused what you said. I can't agree that my school in New Chico hasn't been running for a year and a half. And if you say it's child abuse, then you can say it somewhere else, but I can't agree if that school had to be over already. Just as I did not agree, foreigners have the right to take ships of several million euros into Croatia by 31.5. per 5%. And again today I say that I disagree because if Croats who have far less income have to pay a 25% rate I don't see the reasons and I would really like someone to say how much of these powerful ships have been imported so let's see if that measure was systematic, good or it was a measure for individuals. And when I was talking about reducing funds for education and health care, you can see it in the budget and it's no malice. But it's obvious when someone takes advantage of the argument then it's that and there's no way to answer it then it's malicious, but I would remind you what your club was saying when HDZ increased the value added tax rate and then let's see what rhetoric it was, and what rhetoric this is. So these are facts and facts that you can't escape from, no matter how hard or who tried and didn't try to politicize. But I repeat, given that you were talking about ships and that you need help and fishermen and everyone else and those who are engaged in the transport of tourist ships as much as we have thrown money from the state budget on the import of these alien ships and how much of these ships are imported, and at the same time when Croatians are involved, we do not have the courage to do any of the things. Finally, a colleague, Mlakar, told you only with one measure of how much the state budget will remain mutilated and the question of whether the money was correctly invested when we remember 2006 and the cuts from 22 to 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u36999	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37000	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, I will start with ships and this temporary import. If we look at it only at the first then I might even agree with you, but we all know very well that any measure that will bring such a kind of clientele and such vessels to Croatia, Croatian marinas, the aquarium will permanently keep them under the Croatian flag in the future will provide income based on the registration of the Croatian Register of Ships Services, the consumption of fuel which you know very well that they are not free of neither toll nor excise duty, nor a 25% VAT. Therefore, it is in the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia when we look a little deeper at things, I am not an economist, but in this part I know the opportunities and then a little deeper look at things, in any case for Croatia notified that these ships end up under the Croatian flag even with this method that has a temporary character. As far as schools play the case in the city of Sibenik is concerned, let's say that my duty is more highlighted, so I know that all local self-government units have needs for schools and schools in that context, and in that case, I view them in the same way. For me personally there is no difference between the need to build a school in your village which you have listed or a place compared to the schools that the town of Sibenik should work, for example in Vrpolje or in the local city district of Razina. It's all a coincidence of the general condition that we came up with for a reason I wouldn't mention it in this replica. And at the end of the argument I have to notice again, you can be angry with me when you're telling each of your findings and thesis that you say in the category of arguments, although a very likely large part of the audience and the general public wouldn't agree with you every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37001	Thank you, too. And a new replica of Vice-President of the Parliament of Honored Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37002	Thank you, Mr. President. In your discussion, you asked yourself the question of whether a 25% VAT rate increase was necessary. We all ask ourselves a question together and citizens every day why? I think we should send a very clear and loud message to the citizens who are the reasons, which are the reasons. In fact, citizens forget, especially this is being imputed to our coalition why it is necessary, what was the situation found. In the discussion of VAT, no one mentioned... What the government did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a replica? So I'll continue to mean with a jargon that you know how to use here and there often, now is the time when the boats are exported to dry so they're piling, so the holes are patched up, etc., etc. What we're being criticized by citizens and I listen to every day, I'm in contact with them every day and I believe it's the same for you. In fact, none of us here has pointed out and spoken clearly and loudly enough how many of these holes were, how large they were and what was in this government. Which all the holes they're letting go, which she inherited with the boat, which she has to patch up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37003	Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37004	Well, the answer is, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament very brief. Dear fellow Batinić, when you mention my jargon, you as a continentan then a little smile comes to mind, although what you mentioned is a metaphor of a very serious situation. Yes, it is true that this is the answer to the question whether VAT should be increased or should not have been increased, and which is why various measures have been implemented to relieve the economy but also to improve the collection of tax revenues and charge budgets. In Dalmatian terms, in the jargon of my former profession, it's true, we inherited a stork that lets everywhere and on which no vital assembly worked properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37005	Thank you, too, we continue the debate by the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB Club and the respected representative Josip Salapic. Here's your esteemed representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37006	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in his debate on behalf of the HDZ Club and Mr Baranovic, he said a little and important sentence for today that in this debate there is a somewhat chamber atmosphere, i.e. some apathy here on such an important topic as the state's tax policy or the government's tax policy where the government's interest should be shown a little indifference. Well, more than one reason for that, a lot has happened in Croatia in the past few days. First of all, this is a European law, therefore, harmonising the law of value added tax with European law with, therefore, European directives. First of all, the European Union Directive 2006. Well, I will take the opportunity, first of all, to congratulate on behalf of the HDSSB Club the elected representatives of the European Parliamentarians who will represent our country, our country in the European Union. Unfortunately, none of them are here today except Mr Vuljanović, and I saw him, and I will congratulate him, Vuljanić. And what is a little bit sad is a lot of effort and work done and today we are talking about this European law which three million citizens did not want to know who would represent our country in the European Union at all. So much for the efforts and work of the Croatian Parliament, our negotiators, who I am sure are quality, professional and particularly concerned about the interests of Croatia when they negotiated. And so much for our citizens thinking about what's been done for our country. It is a sad thing, first of all, because here we ourselves are representatives in our debates here and two days before the European elections to not spread the subject in some degree of shame where we are declared as the parasites of the state budget as unemployed that do nothing because in Croatia there is nothing better. And what's the real consequence of that? The real consequence is that what our government is taking on as Prime Minister Milanovic says is responsible for Croatia by the end, so two years have passed since it was almost two years, not much has changed. As for the burden on citizens, 5 billion kuna on the burden of raising the VAT tax rate to 25% directly to 25%, colleagues and colleagues affected first and foremost the purchasing power of citizens, on the consumption of our citizens, and thus on the demand for what is offered on the market, and even on production, less started to be produced, less started to be spent, simply costing investments, costing the economy and everything announced in the 21st Government's plan, which, based on these promises, received elections that are being forgotten a little bit today, simply stopped. Friends from the SDP Club say they are relieved of tax relief, economical, so opportunities in Croatia, but they do not see the effects of this discharge because the economy is not growing more and more. No new investments, no investments, no new jobs, we're witnessing an increasing number of unemployed about 240 thousand people have blocked accounts in the FINA, about 80,000 people are now more than 85 getting fired. Simply these measures that should have been encouraged through one good one, tax policy is said to have been a mirror of government work, a mirror of government work to manage the country, has not achieved its effects. And then we all have to ask ourselves, without the insolence and without some perfidious political flossules, but what's not good in our country. And what we did 3, 4 months before entering the European Union that with this tax policy that we have announced will be a disbursement to the citizens, that it will help the economy do better for our Croatia. The colleagues and fellow MPs are seen by the apathy that exists in our country, according to the citizens and ourselves in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, this is the result of a difficult life and not the consequence that someone personally wants to insult us because this House in a parliamentary country, in a parliamentary state which is a lot of pain and effort and sacrifice to become an independent country, should still have a certain dignity in the Croatian people, including the Croatian Government and the Croatian President. But if people have nothing to live on, if every tax and that smallest burden on their lives, then we can't expect anything better. Comparing the general tax rates in the European Union countries, it is true that Croatia is at the very top. There's Hungary with 27% and Sweden with 25%. We have a model of tax as one Sweden, and I don't think we can compare ourselves to Sweden in anything. God forbid it is better to join the European Union and our country really stands on what is said to be the right legs, the stable foundations of a young, new European country. A lot of discussion was being held about VAT, the last government was accused of taking over a sinking ship, and here is the shortest way to say it was a ship that brought Croatia to join the European Union. He who wins power and who prepares for 8 years for the government to take responsibility for everything that has been good and bad, but needs to make new efforts and measures to make Croatia better. Unfortunately, no offense to anyone, to anyone's policy, to certain ministers in the government, to the Prime Minister himself, our country is no better. And we fear in the name of the HDSSB club in front of our representatives, as well as the people of Slavonia who are very poor and who are simply making it harder and harder to live every day, there are fewer and fewer jobs, that we will be a country that will become a full member of the European Union, and that we will indeed pass as one Greece, as Spain. It is also the interest of our citizens to enter Croatia into the European Union, 700,000 people voted, and 3 million Croats did not want to say anything about it, an indication that simply leads our country in the wrong direction. We discussed whether VAT rates were necessary for concert tickets, about daily newspapers, about some of the things that should serve our citizens for entertainment. Well, of course, it is necessary to reduce those rates and to allow people to rise on this part and culturally, so that they can use the benefits of life, not that Croatia is bypassing this cultural world, but unfortunately the question is who goes to these concerts and theatres and cinemas, who can afford it, what will happen to people who don't get paid, which will be with us all. Is our Croatia really the right path, or will we, before we enter the European Union when we become a full member because of economic problems, because of financial instability, come before new elections, before new temptations through a new European climate, ail in a total mess in the economy and state, which is really not some optimistic beginning of our country's full membership in the European Union. The HDSB club supported taxes relating to the reduction of rates in tourism, we saw and the truth is that it was introduced by the past government, that this is not a new measure, this was introduced by the past government to relieve tourism in order to achieve greater revenues in tourist seasons. This is the only thing that saved the Croatian budget really in the full sense of that word and what was earned during the tourist season was saving state finances. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, simply what we must accept is... The European Union directive, the basis of this law is the 2006 directive, but I call on our government and all ministers in the government, not only the Minister of Finance and his deputies, to simply ask ourselves this is the first reading of the law, which can be done to make it better, easier and more expedient for our citizens, which can be better done for our Croatia if we see that these measures will lead our craftsmen into an unspeakable situation, that there will be simply a difficult sustainable situation in crafts, which should not be our country's tax policy but rather vice versa. We should save everything that can be saved at this difficult time for Croatia. Responsibility should be on all of us. We simply, as an opposition in the Parliament, do not want to shoot empty political parolees and simply embarrass ourselves but should realistically acknowledge what it is. Whether economic measures and economic policy have brought Croatia better, whether Croatians live better today, whether new jobs are being opened, whether this tax policy that was the most burdend of citizens, 5 billion kunas that were filed on their backs by Croatian citizens in a difficult situation for Croatia, is something that gave rise to investment and the economy, or it just doesn't matter. If it is really difficult and if at such difficult times we become a full member of the European Union, then we all politicians and MPs so that people simply do not know the right information and facts about those who are working and want to give something in their intellectual work, first of all we here speak as parliamentary representatives and advocates in the Parliament, the Croatian State, so that we do not embarrass ourselves in front of our citizens because the simple responsibility for politics, especially for economic policy and for taxes, for tax rates, for explanations and explanations that will bring it to Croatia, should be taken over by the government, the resolution ministry. And the risk that is better or worse for Croatia should be taken over by all of us, colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. If the solution to Croatia is temporary elections, if the solution to Croatia's government is to be taken over by someone else who, in the light of the environment of Croatia's entry into the European Union, will make a greater contribution first and foremost to the better life of the citizens of our students, students, students, workers, who live more and more uncertainly every day, expect what we will say and bring here in the Croatian Parliament. What is better in Croatia when it becomes a member of the European Union? Unfortunately, 20% of the citizens who voted for the election of Croatian MPs in the European Parliament are saying that we are not at a very good time and that we should think carefully about whether we will be able to keep our country on stable feet and whether our economy, our state finances, our cash register will survive this difficult situation in which we are. We are not against European laws, we support the harmonisation of all Croatian laws with the laws of the European Union, however much they may be at this moment, another dimension of debate and discussion. We call on the government to consider whether this can be arranged differently as far as religious communities are concerned. There are certain solutions in the 2006 directive, certain tax rates where Member States, which in certain percentages applied VAT and entering the European Union, kept the tax at certain rates even though they were ordered to terminate the tax over time, so it is necessary to consider whether what we discussed about the religious communities and defenders and some other social categories could be implemented by this law. We don't want anything bad to anyone, not to the Croatian government, not to any resolute ministry, and what we want well, we want first and foremost to our citizens, people who, from Croatia, from the Croatian economy and from the salaries of every day and every month, need to live. We fall for the EU, but we need to be realistic. If something needs to be changed in Croatia, then we should change it together even if we lose our seats in the Croatian Parliament. It doesn't matter if people see us as parasites, like people who fight in daily newspapers with their salaries, with their so-called. Privileges, if people consider us to be with their work, that the representatives and the Croatian government have done nothing for Croatia. At one time in this House we spoke with a high honorary House, a high honorary Parliament, and today we have brought perhaps failed economic policies by the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government and the state to a pillar of shame, and 20% of voters at one key point for Croatia is one certificate, one rating for all of what I said today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37007	I thank the HDSSB club and respected counterpart Salapic. We'll hear three replicas. First honorary colleague Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37008	Dear counterpart Salapic, you were just like your colleague before you at the beginning talking about the chamber atmosphere that is ruling in the Assembly at the time of the debate on value added tax. But I'm not worried about this chamber atmosphere. I've learned about this chamber atmosphere. I'm already 14, 15 months in this chamber atmosphere, so I feel like I'm already part of a chamber ensemble. We'd mostly be standing here, I don't know why we're spending this big room, some living room a little bigger, on Friday we could vote in the lobby, rent this hall for something smarter. Because it's the Parliament that doesn't call us every day in the Parliament newspaper that's to blame. And now I'm discussing with my colleague is the council responsible for this situation? Yes, it's Parliament's fault that the parliament allows the government to impose on him and that Fridays are voters and raisers of hands. It's most of the Parliament's fault. And I'm asking the press that when he points his finger at the name, last name and party, and not to generally say that parliamentarians only receive high wages, they do nothing. Let them count themselves who do what they do, how they discuss what he stood for before, what he stands for today. It is more terrible that the chamber atmosphere is felt in Croatia, which is that 80% of people refused to participate in EU decision-making, and that was the government that made no one go to the polls. Remember Serbian politician Pasic when his ministers came to him, the people said. That's when he said make noise, just squeeze, charge taxes. After that, they came to him and told the people to shut up, give in, don't charge any more taxes. As in Croatia, the people began to remain silent, ruling to worry a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37009	This replica corresponds to the esteemed Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37010	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, we understand each other. I didn't say on behalf of the club I wanted to defend parliamentary representatives or colleagues who don't come or come here, work less or work more. Simply, the atmosphere was created not by accident two, three days before the European Parliament's elections, it was not about what European representatives of twelve or twelve elected MPs would do well for Croatia in Brussels and Strasbourg but rather about having a salary of 8000 euros, that some of their salaries would be paid for humanitarian purposes, and people were disgusted. Which 12 people will give their salaries of not knowing how much for humanitarian purposes if 50% of the citizens are in negatives, they're having a hard time living. There was a story about everything about matter, not the core of what the Croatian Parliament really needs to be. And all that we have done, all that we have brought, all the laws which we have passed for the good of Croatia as assembly representatives have been brought down to the pillar of shame. And that's something that's sad. You are going to the street today ask God whether you are allowed to greet someone or not, because you are a parliamentary representative, because you are a state budget parasite, not an honorary duty, and not what we were chosen in the elections for Parliament to make the parliamentary country that the situation is different, that the economy is different, that these are measures, that this tax, VAT at 25% did what Mr Jelusic of the SDP club said that the economy had been disbursed and that the new jobs had been opened, that people were happy, that they had work, bread in their hands and life would not discuss who is a parasite or not, whether we paid me one way or another, whether the footballer was making 50,000 euros a month or a week, what Croatia is doing in the EU. It is just 20% of voters in the elections that have shown what people think about Croatia, about Europe, and most of all about this High House and I regrettably. That's not the problem with the press. This is the problem of us politicians and MPs who, by our work, have led us to be considered parasites and to hang in the Zagreb market there on some big window where the pillar of shame is written by parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we colleagues and colleagues who are today introducing Croatia into the EU. It's sad, and that's, first of all, what's up to us, not to run away from it, not to be ashamed of it. I wasn't defending the MPs, I was defending the integrity of our country and... Croatia in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the intention I was talking about in my debate, and that should be all of our guidance on what we're all really doing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37011	Another replica is Honored Representative Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37012	Mr. Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, here's a respected colleague if I may join in this debate on the sighting of parliamentary representatives. Of course, it has also contributed to an economic situation that is not of course great, but has contributed even more to the image of parliamentary representatives, politicians in general and all the opportunities we have had to see in their involvement in corruption over the past 10 years. I think that these facts and these affairs that have been running around the papers in the past, so 7, 8 years to a much greater extent may have contributed even more than a bad economic situation. It certainly did not help the image of politicians and parliamentarians, but what happened in the previous period in terms of corruption, especially high political elites, I think, has led to a shift towards the poor perception of politicians in general, and so do we. And unfortunately even with the recent certain events people have here actually further say wolf hair changes, but the temper never does. But I primarily wanted to replicate on yours, so certain claims from your debate on the economic situation, investment and employment. The truth is of course, I repeat that the situation is far, far from ideal but, the role of the opposition is to give constructive criticism. I welcome every constructive criticism, but it should also be pointed out that there are no new jobs, there are no investments and it is not entirely true because here according to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Labour report, the number of employees in the sector increased by 12 thousand, about 2.1% in the first 9 months of 2012. Foreign sales revenues increased 9.3%, investments by 3.2%. So in certain segments there is some progress that contributes to the overall picture. Of course, the rest of this big, bigger segment needs to be improved so that we can talk about progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37013	This replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37014	Thank you, Vice President. In 2011, fellow Pandek was the elections for the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament and then the voters said what they think about corruption and what they think about those who have engaged in corrupt activities in Croatia. So now two years around it, it's been a while, and a lot has changed. Your government, the coalition said it takes responsibility for Croatia, responsibility the moment you won the election. It's 2011. At that time, Plan 21 also exposed the tax policy of the new government, the new coalition, said in the tax policy there would be no VAT increases. We're talking about VAT today, a value added tax that your government has raised to 25%. The explanation shows that 5 billion kuna of that tax went to the burden of Croatian citizens. So I haven't spoken in the context of the debate to defend what people think about politicians, but we can't go back in time. Because if people wanted to choose today and listen about the past, about the former prime minister and his criminal acts or want to hear about European Croatia, about new jobs, about employment, that's something your government announced as Plan 21, as a better environment for Croatia. And we had a rebalance a week ago not because of a good situation but because of a reduced investment swing, because of a poor flow of money into the economy, and because of what cannot be achieved by the state budget. That's why we had rebalancing. These are real and true reasons and it is nothing wrong with any member of the government but simply if we recognize that if we admit to ourselves that something is wrong and that we need to change, so if early elections are the reason for it, there is no shame. Well, we don't have to be parliamentary representatives and sit in the Parliament unless we're able to carry out the burden of the crisis on our backs. And that's what the government needs to do first. As an opposition, we need to be constructive. We can't support something that will go on the burden of the citizens. We want to reduce the burden of the economy, to be new investments and new jobs but without expertise, without humility, without acknowledging that at this point it is not as you have announced there is no optimism. And that's what I was saying in the debate, and that's what's wrong with no one, but just a good intention of changing something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37015	Thank you, too. With the third replica, the distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor stands up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Also a small European replica. Dear Salapić, thank you very much for the fact that in your debate, regardless of the differences between clubs, you have reminded of the differences in this assembly who has unblocked the negotiations, who has finished the negotiations. And I also use this opportunity and this replica to congratulate the elected MPs who will represent Croatia in the European Parliament. But I remind you that there, above all, they will have to promote and represent European values. So, the protection of the rule of law, the promotion of the value of the rule of law, the implementation of law, but also the protection and promotion of human rights. And that is something that I would say at the very heart of European values and we must be proud that our 12 MPs are going to the European Parliament. I certainly do not agree deeply with the views of some that we are going in on our knees, that Croatia is going in on its knees and that Croatia is not coming in ready, that Croatia is not ready. That's what you were talking about, so that's what he's finally saying about disrespecting Croatian institutions. And if we do not respect and defend and trust Croatian institutions, what will ultimately be left of the rule of law. Because negotiations were run by institutions. Institutions participated in the negotiations and finally the Croatian accession contract was signed by the institutions. And what stands there in that accession contract is work, the hard work of the institutions of the Croatian state. So, I agree with you, a little more respect for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37017	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37018	Dear MPs, Kosor, would be saddened to see Croatia enter the European Union on its knees. It has been a hard work, for more than 10 years, more than 2 or 3 are calling the Croatian Parliament and it has really been done a lot to make us a full member of the EU under all conditions. What happened in the past two years with the arrival of the new government, the promised programme, the 21 people's Plan simply fell into one general apathy and a bit of interest in Croatian values, for the Croatian national treasure Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is a Croatian national treasure. The Croatian Parliament protected the national interests of the Croatian state at certain times. In the Homeland War, too, we showed that when the Parliament decided that session to part ways with the former Yugoslavia. So this is also a key decision for Croatia's EU accession. We must be ready and our country must be ready, and that must be recognized by our citizens. Unfortunately, in these elections only 20% of citizens have shown their interest in Croatia's entry into the EU, for who will represent us in the European Parliament, which I think is very important because European MPs must first of all have the values they bear from this parliament, from this country to protect truly the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We must work together on all this because otherwise we will bring Croatia as a new member of the EU for something that I am sure your government did not want, and I am sure it should not want this government either. Therefore, this is a constructive replica and debate that should give greater interest to our citizens and also a better moment for our country when we become a member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37019	Thank you very much. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. I invite distinguished colleague Igor Radenovic to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37020	Thank you, Mr. President. So here are the clubs that ended their discussion, and it's said that he's in a bit of a chamber and actually a working atmosphere without a lot of arguing, etc. The colleagues said that 80% of the citizens sent us a message in the quite unpopularity of this trade and of this business, but I would actually ask us how the image of the Parliament actually seems common, unfortunately very often the debate loud, arguing, often and below, or below the level, or it is better for this Parliament to actually lead the debate responsibly, lead constructively, to stick to the agenda points etc. I think it would be far better if this kind of debate, the quality of the debates that go towards improvement and that are held on the agenda in the adoption of the responsible task we have, which is the adoption of the law, to make such discussions more frequent. But good for each of us on our consciences. Since, on behalf of the clubs, I think I have a little less time, 10 because this is an individual debate and since today we have a rather demanding task around other financial points of the agenda. I'm trying to cut myself down, welcome, I'll be brief anyway. Here is the shortest, therefore, to support those colleagues who have said responsibly in their discussions, that when we talk about VAT as the highest and most important income, we must not lose sight of exactly that kind of income, therefore also its importance for the macroeconomic stability of the country and the stability of the budget, and that we do not lose sight of the objectively difficult situation in the country and the need for the budget to remain balanced, so we remain in our stability, so that we can keep that 3% deficit at this stage while it is certainly an economic crisis, and everything to have a future. So I say we must not forget, and I will have to repeat that there is a lot of funding from VAT in this country. I said the most significant income, but pensions, health care, education, so all these gaps that aren't enough from the contribution itself, from the whole functioning of the state and well depends on VAT, so when we say that some things should be reduced as well as possible. We have to lead, so worry about what happens on the other hand and what we do when we reduce our public finances and what's our alternative to a possible reduction. The law itself, therefore, has been said to be here before us to comply with EU accession and to comply with EU rules in which we enter 1.7. One of my predecessors said that the expression is not the happiest, it's true, it's hard to read, it's going to be particularly hard to read to those who are going to use it tomorrow, but it's obviously the price we're paying together. Well, is that so when we open up to this main cause of this law, of course they've spoken to colleagues before and all who are representatives who I say on these financial committees, the Committee on the Economy and other committees related to finance or interest committees, traffic and relationships, they've got a lot of, a lot of suggestions as when we're opening up a box of Pandora and when we're talking about VAT, which would and would be good to cut back on that side as a rule along... of course reductions from interest groups of associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important and what you would appeal to, and that is why I say a large number of observations, and it is good that the Ministry of Finance decided that VAT law is an important law, a responsible law. It goes in two readings, on the one hand, and I would ask that, although it is already said, but let us consider preserving it with all the principles that the tax system must have. One of the principles is the principle of simplicity, so on that side and that number of tax rates that we have now said I would align to three tax rates, meaning social, preferential and general tax rates, so 5, 10, 25 at this time, so that they stay that way and keep the system on that side. Leading of course... the cost of collecting taxes and the simplicity of those taxes, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since we've decided to do two readings, I'd like to pray as it has been the custom so far, that the people of the Ministry of Finance and the Government in general are carefully and well doing all the simulations of these proposals. There are obviously suggestions that can drink water on the one hand and I believe that by the second reading we will give adequate answers, so on the possible acceptance of certain proposals. In my debate, I would refer to the three that seemed to me the most significant, and which my colleagues had partly apostropheded in the debate before. One of them is the payment of craftsmen, so the payment of VAT per charge or by a realized invoice. This proposal foresees, therefore, that, with 1.1.2014, we can balance entrepreneurs, that craftsmen have the same treatment as other companies. I think that this is a good principle and that in principle it is good that we have an equal competition and that on that side, of course, by the measures that are different, that everyone starts paying everyone what I say is difficult to explain in the EU that the problem of non-payment is such a significant problem, but there is definitely a problem. To think about it, counterpart Jelusic also said on behalf of the SDP club that we should eventually move that deadline, but not lose sight of the ultimate goal, so that we should equalise entrepreneurs on the market and that one day everyone has equal VAT payment treatment. Secondly, the topic that I've been giving these, the large amount of proposal seems interesting to me is, it's a free zone. Today in the free zones there are some 9,000 employees in total, and the specific specificity of harbors, the management of port zones, so within that, there seem to me a lot of quality suggestions, quite argumentative. Let's say the Rijeka Port Authority, so someone was talking about the negotiations we've made, if my information is correct. I say, let's say Luka Kopar was released for 10 years of VAT so for all delivery of goods and services for port operations, manipulations, etc. and that period shall continue until the end of 2014, if the ten-year-old is therefore coming out when that deadline comes out. Slovenia joined the EU in 2005. He says the information I have received about it stands and on this side of the significance violates the competition between Rijeka and Copra and needs to see what we have negotiated on that side, I say that colleagues look at it a little more carefully, so if it is possible that we do not lose competitiveness on that side in any case in the Croatian economy and see if our negotiators have actually done their job to the end. And the third topic that may have been the loudest one, therefore, is the most often mentioned around, and also the loudest one in the preparation of these points of the agenda, as it is expected from musicians, so it is the reduction not to introduce but to lower and demand to lower the VAT rate for the organisation of concerts. So it's just for the public's sake that I don't take the subject the wrong way. So far, VAT has been on the line, so there was a general VAT rate. The suggestion is that he shrinks. I think that's a good idea. There are four reasons for that. I don't think colleagues have mentioned an even market game for everyone on the market before. The current VAT law has kind of singled out as they were called, that private and public concert organizers so that these public organisers of the public-owned companies are received at the end of the Zagreb Directorate, Lisinski Hall, SC, some of the tourist communities were also engaged in the same activity and were freed from the VAT, for example, the Rolling Stones concert was doing concert directorship of Zagreb and now we have really affected the competition on that side and I think it is very important to even the treatment of both private and public concert organizers if they are engaged in the same activity. The second reason why we should think about it is to adapt to the environment. So by opening the borders, we practically compete with all the countries in the environment. In Serbia, for example, this tax is 8%, in Slovenia 8 and a half percent would mean that as much as possible to adapt that VAT rate to remain competitive with all other advantages that Croatia has and in line with my first proposal to stick to this rate of 10%, so not these social but these privileged rates. I see my time is running out in spite of the explanation. Of course, this is the development of tourism where we then treat this example on the same side, and let's not forget the multiplicative effects that come from, so with a concert organisation that would be paid at a lower rate, there will be a number of renters, announcements, stage workers, security companies that will work there at full rate and have a positive impact on VAT. I'm my career in the ice cream industry, in our highest quality firm here, so I said ice cream that you don't sell today is hardly going to eat two tomorrow, so on the other hand, people who don't come to a concert in the Republic, I end up Mr. President, hardly coming to other countries. Once again, I commend the ministry to go in two readings. I believe we'll get to that law. Thank you very much, President, for allowing me to extend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37021	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic. Yeah, you picked up the line, they misrepresented it. Then we'll give our word to a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you in this section when you said the VAT environment but you used it as an argument to reduce the VAT rate for a particular activity. However, one question to me is the elemental question. And what about the VAT rate in the environment for everything that citizens need practically every day, from clothing items, shoes, etc. It will now have a practical opportunity to buy in any member of the European Union where the value added tax rate is lower than in Croatia for about 20% when we take the margin and everything else in their shops, then the question is whether the fiscal effects of the first seventh will be much more negative as far as Croatia is concerned. Otherwise in the tax system, it is important to run away from as little as possible, so to introduce as little relief as possible. Every relief basically goes through some time, creates a gray zone. Also different differentiated rates unfortunately, value added tax in Croatia at the moment with these two differentiated rates, and with this high rate, it has become quite one zone of grey economy where it will try to drag everything and everything into each step to pay a smaller tax. Therefore, when we talk about the environment and the fact that concerts or something like that are taxed at a lower rate in Croatia and that a differentiated rate should be introduced in Croatia, then I think we should think first of all that the largest part of what Croatian citizens spend in Croatia is taxed at a rate of 25%, and let's say in some EU member states that rate is 20% and lower. I say it is practically a rate that is 15% or 20% lower and we extend and the price is basic and then that goods is cheaper 30% and 40% which unfortunately again Croatia will probably target shopping in our countries in the environment, above all I mean Italy, Austria and some other countries and that is what for the state budget certainly is not good at all. If we again have hundreds and hundreds of euros per individual or millions of euros going shopping in some shopping chains outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37023	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Igor Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Shuker, if you've listened to me very carefully, I was just talking about this responsible atmosphere and the need to calculate so all these proposals that may or may not have to be from the aspect of the state budget are acceptable but they have to look at both the wider picture and that actually the people of the Ministry of Finance who decide to take all of this into account, and this possibility, therefore, by opening the borders, but given Croatia's position, you have no positions from which you are not 50 km away from any border or you do not have at least on this land, I am talking about the land work without the Adriatic, and, of course, the Adriatic biH, that this one on that side has no opportunity to do so. And when I was talking about rates and I'm sure I agree with you now is whether two, whether three feet were talking about other things. We remember the time when it was far and higher, so I would stop at those three feet and that was my appeal means and that's where you practically confirmed what I said we were able to get down to two feet so that it was only general and social with 5% or by me this model by 5, 10 given the specificity of Croatia and all the relationships of a good and general VAT rate. Of course, I was saying that, and you've practically confirmed what the highlights of my debate were, on the one hand, we have two principles, so when we talk about possible VAT cuts, we need to make sure that the budget's revenue survives. Some countries in the EU, some countries in the environment may have bigger problems, these from the south, but other countries in the EU do not have that many problems with the execution and pensions and health care that we are now not opening these topics but you do realize that GAP is a double-income gap in the pension system compared to the actual contributions. Competitiveness, competitiveness, first of all, I say again my suggestion is to think about everything. If our income gets out of hand if we don't even have it around the concerts, then there's really going to be a big evac. If the story between 8 and 10% of the environment is harmonised, there's no reason why we have neither zero nor 25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37025	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate that was applied for by distinguished colleague Josip Kregar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. So I give my colleague, Branko Hrg, who also applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, listening to all these debates, the question is raised to a person, why in general do Croatian citizens pay VAT that is collected all over Croatia in every place, in every piece, in every breath of air, and in principle this same VAT that same VAT is then lost and actually citizens are very rarely benefiting from it, they have something that they could say is good to make such a thing, well that we paid it because now we get a little more. Why am I saying that? I am speaking because, of course, VAT is the income of the state budget and that this VAT actually does not return to local self-government under the applicable laws any lip in a way that local self-government can do so. This is a very ugly way of collecting funds from Croatian citizens and not returning at least part of the money so that some things can be better resolved at local levels so that local self-government can live stronger and better, so that local self-government in its midst can run certain projects, probably less than they are some big but certainly lead to some investment cycle being much easier and faster on smaller parts. So I think that in the time in which we live, we should also think about that if VAT is already collected, it should be distributed differently and that it is really high time that some of that money is returned to Croatian citizens where they live in those environments that are closest to them where they are daily, where they have to solve their social problems and schooling children and scholarships all the things they need for them. It seems to me that in this way how it is now we actually have a situation for the state apparatus to eat the meat of citizens because it is simply so centralised a state of financial and then, of course, different that citizens have often, so I personally have to confess to myself asking myself a question, I love Croatia. I really should never assume Croatia anywhere, but I believe that we are really going the wrong way and that citizens are saying more and more what we need at all is a country where every day we are more unhappy, a country where we cannot ensure our children's existence and future, a country that is just peeling us, a country where we don't care about Croatian citizens. Just for example, tax and VAT can be observed. We have come into a situation today that we have factories without workers and they are in the weeds, we have peasants without land and without animals, we ask them to buy groceries daily in stores, pay big VAT, and at the same time we don't allow them anything that could somehow bring them back to life, give them back hope, run a cycle in Croatia that long ago died. The question is, whose is it and who is it for? Is she just for that one machine for this empty hall like a colleague just said? Is it for a particular group of people who can dispose of these funds or should the state take care of the citizens or should it worry that each kuna is encased and that every citizen and the poorest, the smallest man in Croatia can have something to make it easier to live to be happier and more satisfied? We literally became a country of unhappy people, literally like that. So in this part where we talk about taxation, then I have to say it's really weird that we're taxing everything today, that today we don't worry about young people dealing with amateur sports because some little amateur club has to pay the state one 50 thousand kuna a year if everything worked legally. That's true. Instead of still giving him that we freed him that we helped the kids to practice sports, not to do drugs, not to go to cafes, bars, not to drink alcohol, we're making people move away from that part of the children's organization. We are not helping local self-government today because local self-government is also a payer of VAT. So she has to pay herself one more time, instead of getting the VAT money, we're still paying them into the state budget. That's our present, that's our situation. My proposal is to consider the possibility of redistributing VAT towards local self-government units. I think it's about time, I think we can actually run some of the activities of a particular investment cycle. The HSS has been in favour of reducing VAT on food for a long time. I don't know if we're aware, probably in the clear, but then I don't know why we're not gonna put it on the table and look the truth in the eye that it's gonna come from one. 7. Croatian citizens, as has already been said many times, can easily cross borders and go to countries in the environment. That in the surrounding countries VAT is much smaller on food than it is in Croatia. And that a large number of Croatian citizens will be shopping outside. They will not buy any Croatian products outside, they will buy all foreign products, pay them the tax that is there. In Croatia, the low production will be reduced, even fewer people will produce it because no one will, of course, buy it. And of course the state budget is going to lose everything at the end of the day. I often ask myself if we really need to spend money on these machines that we have. Citizens in these last elections on Sunday showed what they think of parliamentarians no matter who. The election doesn't say everything. I've heard a lot of comments from people. So I ask myself a question, isn't it really time to take the situation seriously, to seriously go into cost reduction, to, I don't know, show the citizens, let's cut Parliament to 50 MPs, let's cut the Croatian government to 11 ministries, let's save that, let's go there and save up here. Let's put people who will be professional, who won't be politically alike, so let them answer for the results. To move in this way, to start spending the money of Croatian citizens because as spending it is not correct to the citizens, it is not fair to the citizens, and the citizens see it all, of course, and they know it all. I repeat, again, and appeal to be reconsidered to reduce VAT on food to 10% as already said on several occasions, for which we have collected 50 thousand signatures because I believe that this will also make it easier for people to live, that we will preserve some Croatian production and that the budget of the state will have no significant damage at all. Also, you should think carefully and see what happens to children, what about children’s needs. We have a very bad natal policy, we see that we are a growing nation. And most of all, imposes and obligations are on the children's needs. All the needs, everything we buy for children should be kind of stimulated, should be made easier because in this way we can ultimately lead a policy a little bit better. So I repeat, so two suggestions. The first is to consider the possibility of rerouting the work of VAT funds towards local self-government, to finally take at least some step towards decentralisation, so that municipalities can normally begin to function. And second, I repeat, to reduce VAT on food, for all food, so in Croatia to make life easier for citizens and to actually preserve domestic production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37027	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. First honorary colleague Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37028	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would actually support what my dear colleague has said. In fact, the fact is that impacting VAT on food would significantly help a wide range of households, especially those most needed, those who are the poorest and unfortunately have more and more. I would, however, especially point out something else. And this is that, as in many developed countries, using VAT taxation of healthy food, those food we want to encourage the public to take, could have significant effects on improving the health of our population. In fact, we often spend significant resources on different programmes that are positive and useful, promoting a healthy diet, which could prevent and reduce the frequency of heart and blood vessels diseases that affect every other Croatian citizen, from malignancies affecting every fourth Croatian citizen, etc. And we know that changing lifestyles, especially by eating and encouraging healthy diets, can have a significant impact on this. For this reason, I repeat, we have different programmes on which we spend money and here, very simply by reducing VAT on certain foods that are healthy, thus stimulating direct consumption of such foods could achieve an appropriate effect without additional cost or investment of money. We recently had a major one-off action to stimulate the reduction of salt intake. For example, why can't foods that have less salt content be stimulated by a smaller VAT. Therefore, if this is to be achieved, let us not be two - person. Let us make such a move and we will achieve incomparably more than by giving hundreds of lectures, walking through schools, convincing adults and children that they need to eat healthier, etc. We have a mechanism here, the state has a mechanism that can simply achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37029	You, too. The replica matches the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37030	Well, you've actually touched the other part that's still important and where much more could be added up. But just like that, the state can solve, the state's apparatus can handle some things or it doesn't have to. Everything is just a matter of whether we want to especially burden a group or just want to do something good. Well, the other night in the late evening, we had the chance to hear several times that the current government's policy is to put the greatest burden on the citizens, said the Honorable Minister, several times in this Assembly. It's the easiest way to cut it off, take it while you can, but you know, that's what a peasant dictionary would say, a cow that doesn't eat can't breastfeed. She'll be dead. And we won't have to breastfeed. And very soon we'll get into a situation where they won't have anyone to charge that VAT and then we'll be surprised. It is high time to really look the truth into the eyes, to consider situations, to take advice, they need not be paid for 40 million kuna from VAT to get advisors to sell the Postanska Banka and Croatia Insurance. I can do that to local people. Some will probably do it gladly and for free, just to help this country and this government. I want the government to succeed, but I'm asking the government to give it to us citizens too, so we can start living normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37031	Second replica and esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, therefore, at the time that we had to abolish the zero rate due to the EU directive and raise the rate to 5%. It's equivalent somewhere around 2 billion and 200, 300 million kuna, then it's logical that the government thinks that the VAT rate on fresh meat puts the bar down to 10%. In such a way, it would lower the prices of fresh meat, in such a way that it would further encourage Croatian peasants to produce and be competitive, but when you look at little what makes up the consumer basket that the trade unions are talking about, then you will see that most of these products that are in the consumer basket and taxed with a rate of 25%. And when you know that last summer, the electricity price rose by 20%, so when you add the 8.7% of VAT to that, that's almost 30%, the price of gas increased by 37%, so when you add those 8.7% of VAT, that's about 46% to you, and when we know that the price of electricity and gas or heating in a smaller family house has increased by nearly 700, 800 kuna this winter, when we take a zero VAT stop, then it would be very social and I can even say that the rate of VAT to fresh meat has decreased from 25% to 10%, and I'm not saying that it would in a certain way encourage livestock production in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37033	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37034	Thank you. Mr. Schucker, that's right, you've been Minister of Finance and you know those numbers well, you know how full and what the effects are, so that's exactly what I've been warning you about all along, myself and the people I've been consulting with. So we calculated that, in principle, if the VAT rate was reduced to food in order to safely lead to conservation, I will not say increased production but at least to preserve this little production of food products in Croatia and that it would not certainly harm the budget because people would go less shopping outside, buy at home and what they would pay at the end would be the same effect. But it is certain that we are not going in that direction and that it is simply as if we were doing it on purpose, as if we were deliberately trying to destroy everything around us. I'm not sure and I don't believe it's someone's intention, but then it's incompetence, then it's a misdetermination, then we just have to discuss it a little harder and see who can do what in this Croatia. I say, surely there are professional people, certainly there are those who can do this, and I am sure there are also those who can and for free to make life easier for the citizens, in order to give some hope to Croatian citizens who have lost and to start this money that is money for Croatian citizens to pay back, therefore, our production and life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37035	And the third line is the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37036	Thank you. Dear colleague, your commitment to avoiding political bargaining in employment is certainly commendable and advisable, but after that, for example. Then we read in the newspaper the following title: after 12 years of Mayor Kožić half the employees of HSS county, and the mayor's son among them, she gets the impression...... Then we get the impression that such an entanglement is essentially just declarative and no longer stands content behind it, unfortunately. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if I could also look back at your claim that this government's goal is an economic burden on citizens, I would offer a kind of correction to the incorrect assumption. In fact, this government's goal is to discharging the economy in the first place. Through the disbursement of the economy clearly expected, I think we can absolutely agree with that, encouraging greater employment where citizens would be employed and their income would increase. All measures of this government are aimed at this goal, towards rationalisation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37037	The replica is answered by the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37038	Dear counterpart Pandek, I know that local elections are going and that you should try to discredit candidates who are in the elections in every place, but you mentioned Mr. Kozic, the mayor of Zagreb County. I'm going to say that he's a man who's been acting on this duty for 12 years, a man who couldn't find anything in particular in his political career as a bad guy and a man who's been good at this county all these years, and he's gonna be leading them for sure for the next four years. And as for this correction to the wrong quote, so look, let's not pretend that we haven't heard or seen anything, so there are footage and records of these sessions as well as each other. So, Minister Linic said several times in defending the budget rebalances that this government has opted for the burden on Croatian citizens, so you said well to help the economy. Now I ask you and where is this help, then why the economy says they're in a coma, that it's never been worse, that they can't go anywhere, that they're all going to fail. Did you get the letter from the Chamber of crafts? It probably is, we all got it. Did you get the letter from the Franak Association, the amendment proposals to some law? So these are all the things that come to us, that we have to look at and admit to ourselves people, the situation isn't good, it's not good, we're just taxing, we're just pressing, it's not going any further, it's not developing, nothing positive is happening, and it's true. I'm not blaming anyone. I'm just gonna say that it's high time we looked the truth into the eyes, that people who could try to do it would be people from the profession and finally make some moves that would give at least hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37039	We're continuing an individual debate. I call upon the esteemed Joseph Djakic to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a law that in the most part harmonizes with European legislation also concerns Croatian defenders, i.e. the disabled of the Homeland War and the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders in the procurement and import of personal cars and equipment for carrying out economic activity so that in this bill that has already been harmonised and that this will stop on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. However, the possibility left by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to use a minimum VAT rate of 5% on these aids that Croatian defenders necessarily need. So 5% would be what would adequately meet European standards, European legislation, and therefore we cannot accept that this is the way that they are put totally in the same position with journalists who, in their exclusive editions, want to present to the current incompetent authorities how everything is done well. Croatian defenders as creators of the country who left their body parts on the battlefield, who bled for this country, should surely have the possibility of getting a car, especially those from second to fourth category who are now losing it by entering the EU and these changes, i.e. This law defines that they will no longer exercise that right. It would be nice and it would be solid with Croatian defenders if it were also the defence minister, but also the prime minister who swears to respect Croatian defenders and their rights if they said in this law that 5% of the imports of cars, but also equipment, equipment for Croatian defenders who have opened their crafts, cooperatives or who have companies, certainly for the purchase of these equipment, the employment of them themselves has no government obligations towards them when they are self-employed. They also hire Croatian defenders. I think this is the same tax as for all the other citizens and orthopedic aids and everything that is needed for those who are difficult today without legs, without hands or blind after the war and the war injuries will certainly not be a good provision for this government. If it is a misunderstanding or if it is a view from the point of view that they are Croatian defenders, i.e. This is about most people with disabilities who will be left without these rights as well as the families of the dead, the dead, the children of the prisoners and the missing, I don't think there will be any, and it has already been shown that everything that has been done against the Croatian defenders and their active democratic protests is not good and neither is this measure that will legally burden them in further life, in further work there won't be any good for that population. We believe that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are uncomfortable looking at the proposal of this law that allows state-level newspapers to use their own space and who knows what other concessions. We believe that, as with all the tax press that has been made to Croatian citizens so far, and thus Croatian defenders will not help this current government to fill its budget, this tax burden on imports of cars, equipment and machines to Croatian defenders, but also to religious communities, will not help anything to enable this incompetent government to leave the crisis that they have brought their ignorance and incompetence to. I recommend that my proposal be considered in the coming time and that the minimum VAT rate be applied to imports of cars, equipment and machines used by Croatian defenders in their self-employment, in their work and ensuring the existence of their family. Equally, I believe that liberation or journalism, concessions to journalists will not help further present everything that is wrong with today's work. We must all watch together that the defence population was ready to give their lives to the country of Croatia and that, according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, all of this has so far belonged to and therefore one sensitivity that should have been used and the minimum VAT rate on imports of cars for all those who did not use it, for all those who have found it essential or necessary means to assist in their work and life, as well as those who are employed, who are engaged in economic activity to be a relief. It cannot be said that this is a strict obligation to comply with the law, with European directives or negotiated chapters. We believe that there was space and that there was only a wish and a will 5% would all accept because it was the smallest rate to be applied. Or otherwise why the budget did not raise funds and opportunities to subsidise it, this tax burden to subsidise Croatian defenders through the Ministry of Defence. And that possibility remains open. So I'd rather be the one who's going to be 5% of the burden, and that's likely to agree with all our disabled, the families of the dead, the dead, the children of the prisoners and the missing. I believe that you understand that this kind of thing will certainly be of no benefit to anyone, only to the harm and that it will further cause those who will be unemployed or those who will be unable to obtain a basic means to at least communicate or travel and go to a doctor through life with their family. I believe you have carefully considered what you are doing with this law and what injustice you are creating. Similarly, they cannot agree that bread, milk and medicines are in the same category as newspapers, especially those that spread many times misinformation and about current authorities and individuals and MPs, and many times as the yellow press are causing affairs that do not benefit anyone. I don't think that's a good thing, that it certainly can't be in the same category, and that it certainly won't help whether they're the means they're going to be released to reprogramme and put into the function of improving the press, quality, objectivity or whatever the ethics of the press requires. The question is whether it will keep them on the surface because it's hard to believe when hystericalally performing that more anyone wants them and takes them and at no cost. That some newspapers are certainly not eager for our citizens to be in their hands because they do not want to read such terrible deceptions and nonsense in them. Thus, they will not be helped to reduce VAT to the newspaper to buy them in as large a number as possible, to increase their circulation or to raise them up to politically praise those who make such concessions. I believe that Croatian citizens will not increase the purchase of newspapers from these aspects, but I believe that you have done so to everyone equally, according to regional, local newspapers, according to electronic media, then I would say that it is a sincere wish that the information of our citizens is as good as possible. This is how when you do it at the expense of Croatian defenders, at the heart of religious communities, then you send a clear message that they are political opponents to you. And Croatian defenders are from all political options and are no one's opponents and should not suffer for someone's incomprehension, because of one's relationships that border on reality and intelligence. Relations with Croatian defenders today will certainly further strengthen their attitude towards those who have no understanding of defence needs and defence requirements through this VAT Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37041	Thank you. This exposure of yours has caused several replicas. The first disagreement will be expressed by the respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37042	Thank you very much, Vice President. It's not a disagreement, it's not a disagreement at all. I agree almost more or less with the whole debate of the esteemed Mr. Djakic, with that I can supplement something if he didn't say it all the way. And the fact is that we live in a country of different standards and looking at the proposal of this law really raises the question of what kind of standards do we have? Because bread and milk on one side, that's the biological need of a man, must be fed every day, but equating it with one newspaper, publishing has no need at all. Because the right to information, to be informed, is not the biological need of a man. Now, you have set an example of Croatian defenders. These people who have installed their body part in the creation of this country in the war are taxed 25%. That's right. Because we're simply lost, especially this power, in the conduct of power, and we don't know where we're going anymore. And who will pass this law? The Ministry of Finance can propose whatever it wants, but if this House and the people here in the House don't raise their hands from that law anything. And who's going to bring it? Greedless, shameless, wasteful and boastful parliamentary representatives for the benefit of these journalists. They will do this Friday's first reading and the conclusion will be adopted, and then in the second reading, the same MPs will do it nicely once again as they say spit on their dignity and raise their hand for such a bill to those same publishers who write for these same MPs. And who's going to be our fault? No one, on their own! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37043	Answer, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37044	You're right. I was talking about the yellow press that is now being helped, about all the unrealities they bring up, about some quasi-research journalism, about everything that will be released and what will be privileged this time, and the rights of Croatian defenders have been ignored. Except for 100% of the people with disabilities that the state gets cars, 450 of them on request, and we have a six-month deadline. They are freed and that procurement will be released from VAT. This is defined by this law because state institutions, government, county, cities and municipalities can do it. However, those who individually purchase their cars as personal aids as well as machines will not be released. And now imagine, bread, milk, drugs and newspapers on one side. It's the same category. It's a disaster! In Croatian society, this is unacceptable. I don't know if you'll really allow as much as the Government, but also Croatian MPs in this House and MPs that we really accept that 5% of it will be a tax on cars and on machines for Croatian defenders i.e. the disabled of the Homeland War from 2nd to 4th category. We speak of them, the mortals, the families of those dead, the captives and the missing. And I ask you to consider and that you, as a representative, also appeal to everyone else to remove this possibility together, because no one can save them, Croatian citizens do not want to read, or see, or hold them in their hands because their hands are dirty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37045	Second replica, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37046	Thank you very much. I also want to express my agreement, colleague Djakic, with most of what you said. Therefore, agreeing is not a disagreement and you are absolutely right when you talk about Croatian defenders, namely the disabled of the Homeland War and the victims of the Homeland War, that in the final draft of the law, a minimum rate of value added tax is set at 5% for the purchase of personal cars because it is about people who are not a luxury car but a direct need and he has killed orthopedically helped. Someone whose legs died in the war, the further extremities, and the upper extremities, which were left without a leg, certainly needed to solve their orthopaedic aid with the help of the state, and the car was orthopedic. The category of citizens does not get cars from the state, it pays it by its own means, and then 25% of VAT should be paid to it. I think it's completely unsustainable, and I hope the Ministry of Finance realizes that there's really no excuse, any honor to the 100% Croatian military disabled, and the state has been there all these years, and it's actually been a successful car buy-in, and they're not going to be cut off by anything. However, one serious category of people with disabilities in the Homeland War will be in a much more unfavourable position in this way, and I think that the state must find a way here to find a way for this group to, in particular, not to mention the number of Croatian wartime wartime disableds, so it is about groups of the most difficult military disabled. And I think it's totally fine with this proposal from my colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37047	This replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37048	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Ivić, so you have taken care of and taken care of as defence minister and you know best how much need it is, the real need to be at this rate of 5%, that would be the most correct, because at certain times Croatian defenders were the first to voluntarily give up their 10% in the interest of the state in order to save the budget, in order to also say to the union leaders that Croatian defenders were those who were willing to give up their lives, were willing to give up the part of their incomes that were defined by law and they did so and were not returned to them until today, nor did anyone mention it. Today's Croatian Defence Minister who was in the government agreed with this law. I would say that he did not have general care and should at least classify 5% as the lowest rate for car procurement in individual moves and that it is also a symptom of the fact that the defense population together with religious communities is experiencing just as much disabling, and so is the law that 25% will pay for what they do. It's a very symptomatic definition of this law which clearly states that this current government is both against defenders and against the Church, regardless of which churches, whether it's Roman Catholic, Greek Catholic, Islamic, whether it's Orthodox or any other. I believe that, it says about all religious communities, so I don't think I need to be corrected, they clearly wrote about who this is, so I want to say in this opportunity it won't help this government, nor the budget to improve its charge because everything has been done to bring Croatia to ruin both budget and charge. Because even with this increase, they're not. Helped so far in nothing. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37049	The next line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Djakić, I share my disagreement with you, and that is why I replicate. I don't think so. I don't think you've pointed out enough of the Ministry of Defense's responsibility in this case. Because if we already have to settle something because of the EU directive, if we can't solve it at a rate, then it would be logical that the minister, when he's done the big job of publishing, found tens of thousands of people who don't belong there, is now only those who are there. And if the money enters the state budget then the logical thing is that the same amount is increasing the budget of Croatian defenders, going through a new position, through the help of Croatian defenders in this part, is being helped by Croatian defenders. Because as far as this activity equipment is concerned, it's back to them and so on and they're basically after a while, which our people would say on their own, but I'm saying I'm really expressing my big disagreement with you because you haven't pointed out your dissatisfaction with the behaviour of the parent ministry. Because as far as I can tell, the D.O.D. didn't come forward about this at all. Is it possible that the Ministry of Defence and the minister believes that this is not a problem for Croatian defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War, or is there no need to worry about it at all. So, if the ministry colleagues had to install this in law because such a directive is the EU, since the money will only go into the budget nicely from the left, but teledicated to the right side of the budget at the Defence Ministry, a new position will be opened and Croatian defenders will not be satisfied. But the minister says he's been busy with a lot of business, probably eating bullets somewhere now or what I know he's already doing, so he doesn't get to worry about these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37051	Here, fellow Shuker shows he knows the true meaning of the word replica. Let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37052	Thank you very much. Well, I'd say you've defined well that you disagreed with me even though I mentioned the Minister of Croatian Defence. He didn't talk about it at the government, and he didn't even communicate with the president of the Committee on War Veterans and the president of the Association about how we're going to eliminate the new commitments to Croatian defenders. The new charges are 25% that's clear and every car, each machine will cost 25% more, 20 if they introduce 5% minimum rate. I believe he'll talk retroactively about it. I believe it won't just swallow bullets. He will continue to roar fire like a rabid dragon. And I believe he will find out from these millions of kunas that cost one Croatian defender who has discovered that he will compensate for this with regard to the entire population of Croatian defenders. He'll probably come forward when it's brought in in the second reading, then he'll come by and say the ministry will probably cover it from these fake ones they found. I would also fight for it to be only fair but to have a sensitivity to that population as well as to religious communities must first of all have it because these people must not be neglected. These people must not be left behind and these people must be allowed what is necessary and it is a car or machine for further work and for further operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37053	And the last replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37054	Thank you. Well, my colleague Djakic, I can't agree with you to put a bigger VAT on the paper because when you compare it to bread and milk, then I think it actually goes somehow in Croatia today, together because when people can't buy a lot more groceries because of the expensive, then they're much easier to buy a newspaper and then feed them there so they can see how they're actually doing well. So yet the citizens are paying that newspaper, they're paying that VAT, and in that part, I don't think it's a comparison that you shouldn't go in that direction and argue that it's more. What I should do, I'd go further to cut the VAT to a TV subscription for public television, if it's public, it's public, it's state-owned. But it should, too, because that's what citizens pay for, and they don't consume as much as they should consume. What about defenders and religious communities? No matter who wants to do something, who wants to do entrepreneurship, not that he needs to be taxed, but needs to be given an extra reward to do it because he saves himself, his family, saves society. There are too many errors in that segment through our history made. Too many families got hurt, too many people got killed just because of some maybe moves that weren't good in that direction. It means developing this spirit with the defenders that they go to do something, to buy machines, to deal with entrepreneurship minimally tax and further stimulate. That would be the right move, that would be the right job, and if I wasn't talking about religious communities, I think that's where we're going in some extremes. But we'll be paying for air soon, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37055	My colleague Hrg, the truth works on the charge HRT is not paid VAT, but your colleague Djakić will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37056	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of the pack, yeah, some of them are feeding off the papers, but they're getting smaller and smaller. There are fewer people who feed on newspaper articles because it becomes a thing of the past. People aren't even illiterate, people aren't so crazy about newspaper articles to buy newspapers. I'm telling you, they're not gonna take them or read them anymore, given they've been through a lot of them and all kinds of delusions. Even polls no longer believe that the polls have also shown that they have been set up and that they are not objective. I believe that this won't help any newspapers that have probably turned all their age into something else, into some private property, cars, luxury, etc. but enable Croatian defenders, who are able to give their lives to their country of origin, to have a lower VAT rate, to get machines, to deal with the activities they will hire, to be a burden on the state, and to allow those with disabilities to be able to use cars or vehicles that they obtain as orthopaedic aid to perform their regular life functions. This is forgotten, there is no such thing, and therefore I would like to say by any EU directive that does not defend this minimum VAT rate on the purchase of cars to Croatian defenders as well as families of prisoners, missing or mortally injured. So I believe that this government and the minister will recognize it in the next debate that it is both necessary and necessary, not luxury.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37057	The individual debate will now continue, dear colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37058	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I stress that in this law I will speak naturally as a layman in the financial area, not as a person who has direct contact with entrepreneurs in the eastern part of Zagreb, Dubrava, Sesveta and the eastern part of Zagreb County, Zeline and Long Village. Generally speaking, I believe that this law should absolutely be supported because it is primarily in important terms in compliance with the EU acquis as well as with all that we have negotiated in the negotiation process. It should be supported by the fact that it is exclusively for the adoption of a new law and not for the amendments to the existing legislation that we welcome for the sake of legal cleanliness, the possibility of easier understanding and the reading of the law. I welcome the fact that suggestions are accepted that the law is adopted in two readings because it is undoubtedly done by extremely important matter in which the decision in two readings can be extremely useful. When we talk about VAT and its introduction, we can see that this law has always caused some controversy since its introduction there in 1998 when VAT and its introduction have been a top issue for almost a year. That's how I feel at the World Cup in France at the stadium dominated by a banner that said, "We want you 100% plus VAT." It was then to remember for one single time the state budget was in surplus, during then HDZ's fin in Mr. Borislav Škegra's finances, but unfortunately that surplus was quick to say so, I may apologize for the use of an unrecorded statement but I think it would be most convenient to gossip about a milder and more moderate word. So when we remember that too, then I think of a commonly heard syntagma about Croatia, which is a land of missed opportunities, but I say it is already spilled milk. I would personally point out certain objections to the proposed text of the law. In the first seems to me it may have been a happier solution to... possibly a longer period of adjustment due to the complexity of the law and the security of better application. The second observation concerns, of course, the question of value added tax which is different from the provisions of Article 17(3) so far. The law. I come as I mentioned from a highly crafty and entrepreneurial end, and I am somewhat afraid that the change in tax returns towards entrepreneurs who are taxpayers of income tax will have a very negative effect on their business. So far, they have, of course, calculated VAT according to the fees received or charged. If it were possible to remain such a provision, I believe the wind in the back of the survival of our craftsmanship and free professions with certain insurance to prevent abuse. The introduction of these individuals into a circle of entrepreneurs who therefore system that pays VAT by invoiced rather than charged bills is I would say to them rather dangerous and can lead to the closure of new crafts. It should also be noted that those persons who are taxpayers of income tax for all their liabilities correspond to their entire assets and the possibility of abuse in them is significantly less. There is, of course, an observation that the same criterion must be applied to other entrepreneurs where there is a strong possibility of abuse but I think there may be a possibility of spreading the existing legislative framework to ensure that tax exemptions are prevented from abuse. If certain solutions were to be found in order to further prevent the possibility of abuse, I think you should consider, in any event, putting in place a previous arrangement in relation to craftsmen and free professions. My third comment was as highlighted in several discussions on the VAT billing on concerts. Of course, for such a solution we could find arguments both for and against. But personally it seems to me that I need... a reason for. First of all, it is about promoting cultural events that need to be helped because in times of crisis, it is certainly the first denial of what is less important. The argument is also the fact that concerts are an increasingly important part of the tourist offer. The best example is to say Pula, which becomes the concert centre of the growing concert centre, as well as Sibenik and Zagreb. And here at concerts held here in Arena we can notice a large number of tourists from neighbouring countries who generate other revenues when visiting the concert, therefore not only affect ticket sales. I no doubt believe that in the tourist segment, the determination of VAT rates 10% on concert tickets would give an additional boost not only in this Adriatic part but also in the continental part. The VAT can, of course, be an important instrument not only fiscal but also economic policy. Generally speaking... in the area of finance certainly recommended monitoring VAT rates in neighbouring countries, especially if this rate refers to products that we produce to a greater extent in our country. Such product groups that are produced or can be produced in Croatia should certainly be constantly considered with options that provide changes in VAT rates and the potential effects of these products more competitive with domestic consumers. In any case, I generally note that it should be supported, and certainly it would be good until the second reading and these remarks that I have made I hope to consider and classify if possible in the text of the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37059	Last but not least, in an individual debate, we will be approached by the respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37060	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that it is good that this law still goes in two readings, which allows us to at least try to correct all the illogicalities that are presented in this bill. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues and colleagues said, but I'm going to point out some things that I think are particularly important. First of all, craftsmen. We all know that 1.7 we are entering the EU and that in some ways we must maintain the competitiveness of that sector that we consider to be one of the most important for the Croatian economy and for the Croatian economy, which is craftsmen. We also all say that we have a very important tourist orientation of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore see no reason why this is not possible, and this is also the 2006 directive. The EU commission allows and is exploited by many EU countries in the Mediterranean, so Cyprus has 8%, Greece has 13%, Spain 8%, France 5.5%, Italy 10% related to water facilities, related to the type of water facilities for excursions. I don't see why that in the same way in this bill couldn't apply to those of our waterfront operators who also provide catering services. It is not clear to me why the same reduced rate does not apply to florists when it is the same in a number of European countries in accordance with the same directive. So for flowers, the priority rate is Belgium 6, Slovenia 8, Poland 8, Luxembourg 6% and the Netherlands 6% which, of course, generates large, large revenues. There was also a completely interesting thing about catering services and catering facilities and preparing and delivering food. Where we have a situation that the pizza we order will cost more if we order more if we order it from the outside than if we eat it at the pizza place. This can lead to paradoxical situations to say in the pastry we should actually ask you if you will eat ice cream with two balls inside the candy room or outside the candy room because in these two cases you do not have the same VAT as suggested. It would be the same and the same option in Europe is that, for example, Austria has the same VAT for everyone and for preparing and delivering food, ordering food and for consumption in a catering facility. Belgium the same thing, Ireland the same thing, Italy the same thing, Luxembourg the same thing, Slovenia the same thing, Poland the same thing, Turkey the same thing. I really don't think Croatia should be a specific person in that. Several colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned about VAT on concert events, i.e. the organisation of concerts where the largest VAT of 25% is now proposed, the complete environment that makes a very good profit has a preferential VAT rate. These are events that allow additional tourist revenues, are organised anywhere. These are manifestations from which our highways are also earned by our carriers, from which our caterers earn, from which the independent artists here are now being introduced into the VAT system. And it's really completely illogical that at the same time you introduce independent artists into the VAT system, you go with the maximum VAT rate to concert events. In the entire branch, the opinion is 1/1 or 100%. You won't find anyone who does this to say that the VAT rate should be the highest possible and someone in the 10.15% environment. You can also take a temporary measure and let a reduced VAT on concert events, say, 10% over a year, two, three, and we'll see the effects. And I don't see why the government and the competent ministry should be running away from it. As far as religious communities are concerned, I have already said in one replica, more than 1100 victims of religious objects in the Homeland War. Direct damage 300 million euros. Most of the inventory was destroyed. I don't understand why if someone gets an organ as a donation from Germany, then why does they have to pay for it until the end of the VAT. .../The speaker went off and then turned on./... But really, if we have humanitarian organisations that are excluded from these concrete things, I don't see why the church should continue to be a taxpayer of VAT. The Kalvinist church in Laslova, more than 300 objects managed by the SPC from the Krka monastery, etc., etc., and some of the esteemed colleagues of Šuker, he knows well in the area of Banovina, Petrinja, Kostanica, Glina, Gora, Maja, completely destroyed religious objects that have not been restored so far. I think we need to take care of that, too. Because it's again in some way the tourist resource that is then being visited, the team becomes a pilgrimage and some other kind of profit opportunities that come from it. As far as the media is concerned, I don't know how the government's coordination has been reacted by the Ministry of Media, which is the Ministry of Culture, which has announced a media strategy pompously here for two years since they've been in opposition. We've always only got changes and additions. And then all of a sudden you have a VAT reduction on the daily paper, weeks printed which we can all agree together have more serious and more analytical articles than that are completely excluded. No one mentions a word about HINA, but it remains the maximum VAT. No one mentions a word about HRT that is public service and we know that HINA is in trouble with finance. And in some ways, we justify it by caring for the media. At the same time you have at least three initiatives, which the Croatian Journalist Society, which various associations of official and unofficial journalists and other intellectuals who speak can be differentiated VAT rates but it must be related to the public interest. So we're really and in fact reducing VAT to something that can really be, which is very often yellow and ham. So neither do we make it easier for the paper to survive because it will continue to be less bought because the purchasing power of citizens is falling more and more unemployed, the 5% will not save them, journalists will be equally threatened and no rights will be compensated. At the same time it will be... and at the same time the media that are so to say owned by the Republic of Croatia, at the same time we are equally burdening them we are really good masters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the same time, we're funding the same HINA from the budget, and it's always small. We can't put her on her feet. And before that was the problem, I'm not saying it's from yesterday. But if we're going to that, then why don't we just go with different rates and stimulate the right analytical articles, the right journalism, the right public service. So let's go with rate 5, 10, 15 about public content. So this is where we forgive. At the same time, colleagues and colleagues, you have a special budget item of nearly 3 million kuna, which provides for the subsidisation of non-profit media, whatever that means, the same regardless of the public interest. So where's the logic? So you're reducing VAT, and at the same time, you're out of the budget of 3 million kuna for non-profit media regardless of the public interest, and the media that is in your possession and which should be of public interest to them, you leave the same 100. And now someone wants to tell me that it's for the benefit of the media and the society and the public and journalists whose three associations write protest letters and sign. What we will do with this and how the Ministry of Culture of origin in charge of media policy can co-ordinate it. At the government's coordination to miss it. I may even understand colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, but I can't understand those who bombed us with those stories of public service that this is how it goes. A con, a big con. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37061	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported. Dear Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mesic, I listened carefully and indeed in this section regarding VAT on some of the newspapers I agree with you. I also agree with the part where you talked about concerts. What is not clear to me at all, and I will never understand that VAT, if that is true, if I understand it well, is the same for holding classical music concerts, distinguished artists, indeed not only world artists, but I also have to say home-renowned classical musicians, both instrumentalists and singers. Compared to this, as you said in the paper, yellow and white, there is indeed such yellowery in the organization of concerts of different teats and others that poison our young generations because they are offered impeccably. Okay, and I'm into it, so that VAT even more if it could be 25%. But I would also like to see that there is one interest in the education and education of young people who are really coming from the house in this Croatian country, but there must be something to offer, and these are the kind of concerts and events that can really only enlarge a young man as opposed to these jungle performances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37063	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37064	Dear colleagues, I'll just remind you that the professional organizations of musicians, musical and stage artists reminded us that whether something yellow and whether something bad or good concert should have been a certain expert commission in the parent ministry that had previously acted so there used to be that particular tax on the ham, you certainly remember that. And that's how a certain concert offer is valorized. But look here at another situation when you've already mentioned culture and cultural identity. We do not treat traditional crafts nor those registered in UNESCO as well as listed on the list of representativeities of world cultural heritage. We've got VAT on them, and there's over a hundred of them on the national register. Therefore, it is not about such large business entities. And if they wanted to in some way stimulate it to survive, then I guess they first have the right to a privileged, unprivileged VAT rate, and there's their... Some of them are also listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and we are now banging them with VAT so that what little they managed to survive is to hit them with more VAT, and at the same time we have a bunch of imported non-quality products that are sold in our tourist centers. Go through Stradun, look at the souvenir shops and find me some real home souvenirs, and at the same time you have such crafts that in UNESCO's town you could sell under UNESCO, I almost said with a label, but not a label, but a recognition that it's an immaterial cultural good that is thus presented. And then that makes sense how culture presents through tourism and, finally, believe me, a tourist would rather buy such a souvenir and again the state would benefit from a reduced VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37065	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ club, the 5-minute debate will be held by the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. On behalf of the club, I would like to look at one part of what counterpart Jasen Mesic was saying, but I think that Articles 38 and 39 are very important, some of the specifics of these articles, that the deputy minister explains them in his final address because obviously some things are not articulated enough. But before that, I would make one nomotechnical remark, in Article 38, it's logical if you say that the VAT rate is 20% that 10% goes after that and then 5%, and not that after 25 you have 5 and then 10% again. There's got to be some logic. Similarly, what tax collectors don't like anymore is the rate, but when introduced as a differentiated rate is now introduced, those differentiated rates should have some logic. Because if we put newspapers and magazines printed on paper that come out daily here, then we completely ignored that there are a number of local media in Croatia that come out every three or every week and that may be far more important to the citizens of Croatia for these local events than they care about these daily newspapers, and daily newspapers or hear all these news on the radio, television, look at various portals. And what my colleague Mesic said, I want to underline it further in the name of the club, which is HINA. Because if from HINA, practically many take over the news that they later print on their paper sheets, then the logical thing is that this HINA, which is financed by the state and that we don't spill out of the void, will be treated the same way with a differentiated rate of 5%, and then surely one part of the funds will remain for the quality of the work, will not be spilled into anyone's pockets. Because as you've had a chance to see around 150 prominent journalists, they've signed one practically petition asking that this differentiated rate and the reduction of VAT rates for the newspaper from 10 to 5% don't spill into private pockets because I repeat, it's at an annual level somewhere between 150 and 170 million kuna. It is, therefore, not negligible funds, but to be used in quality, including investment in journalists. Also, what on behalf of the club would like to be explained is a differentiated rate of 10% for food preparation and food services at catering facilities, as well as preparing and serving non-alcoholic drinks and drinks, wine and beer in these facilities. I think that due to the different application of this provision of the inspector's law on the ground here, it would have to be clearly defined that practically all services in catering what is the difference that this food will consume is taxed at a rate of 10%. Because it doesn't make any difference, so if someone has prepared a housewife somewhere, or if they've built that house in their own rooms. I think he's even more complicated to do it somewhere else. And then we're still punishing him and introducing him to a higher rate than 15%, and in that way you won't... in principle, economic operators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it's another paranoia to them if we want to go to some extreme. And what I would especially like to point out for the reason that the provision until 2008 I think was controversial, was not defined, there were political bickerings about it, and this is the treatment of a TV subscription on HRT and Croatian Radio. I believe that this provision in Article 39 is like a sub-assembly or what would be r) the activity of public radio and television other than commercial. I think that there should be a clear distinction for the reason that VAT is released from what is financed from TV subscription, and what is financed from the funds obtained from marketing, so advertising and everything else is taxed as well as from other commercial televisions, and I don't think that this provision is clearly defined enough and can create certain problems in interpretations. 'Cause look, we even had this High House come to a conclusion in 2002. In addition to the State Audit findings, in fact in 2003 to carry out control in HRT and then the records were made, beautifully stored in a drawer as an insurance instrument as to how HRT would behave. And then after losing the election in 2003, those records were delivered to HRT, and I think that simply when the media is in question, the tax provisions must be crystal clear for reasons that someone would not use the power of the authorities to direct various tax pressures and how these media will behave. So, with those remarks that we and my colleagues made during this debate, we will be restrained about this bill in this first reading, and we will support this bill if our remarks are accepted primarily as regards Croatian defenders and the church.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37067	Replica, respected Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37068	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the truth, here's my colleague Shuker, at the end of his final address, mentioned the Croatian defenders, so let me remind you of your colleague Shuker. I think you were a minister at the time, but this House of Higher House passed the Law amending the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families brought a series of amendments to those laws. But in 2009, on May 22nd, so under the chairmanship of Mr Bebić, Mr Mesic signed the then president on May 28th, so Articles 2 and 3 of that law refer precisely to this release of customs duties and VAT in the introduction of a car. Article 2 refers to customs duties, and Article 3 I will quote you this law. Therefore, the provisions of Articles 60 and 61 of this Act apply, therefore, to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Advocates in the Liberation of VAT, to cease to apply in the part in which exemptions from value added tax and special tax are prescribed by way of the force of the Law on Value Added Tax and the rules on specific taxes in line with the acquis of the EU. So, in 2009, through the amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Defence, we prescribed that when the time comes for entering the VAT, the EU, when these laws that are therefore in line with the EU, that we will abolish this right for the sake of pure truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37069	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37070	Well, colleague Radjenovic, I'm glad you confirmed what my colleague Djakic and I and my clubmates have been saying all along. Therefore, it is not disputed that, in accordance with EU directives, we had to resolve this. We went with two suggestions. Whether this can be resolved through a differentiated rate, because if it cannot be resolved through a differentiated rate, therefore one income will come to the state budget to automatically open a counter item at the position of the Ministry of Defence and to assist defenders in such a way. So, I'm really glad that on behalf of the SDP club, you supported our drive to help Croatian defenders and I'm glad that you reminded us that we had negotiated because it's nice when colleagues from different political parties agree that one political option has ended a great deal for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37071	Thank you. Now first one notice. We'll keep working without a break. That's what I'm saying because of my colleagues who have applied for the next item of the agenda, they have time to come to the assembly, not to miss their turn by counting on us to work, to have a break. So there won't be any stops. And now, please, Deputy, here's your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37072	This way I fully support you not to have a break, but Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament is the usual rule to announce it at the beginning of the session and to arrange it with clubs. You as chairman simply have no right to do what you've done. But I'm saying, given that today is a financial day I fully support you to work without a break but I would ask you nicely to stick to what is common in the House of Commons. So it's usually the chairperson at the beginning of the session says colleagues and colleagues today we'll be working without a break, not because someone's missing a break, but simply because people in the party are agreeing on certain meetings and all together. Well, I'd ask you nicely, and I know you're going to answer me this or that right now, but they have some common rules of conduct in the Assembly, so I think the chairman might stick to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37073	Thank you very much for this warning, but that would be impossible and perhaps illogical. In fact, it's completely illogical. Because at the beginning of the sitting at 9.30, you don't know how much this first item of the agenda is going to be, how many lines there's going to be and how many responses there's going to be to the replica. We could have finished this point in an hour, but we didn't finish it. If we had finished it in an hour, we would have had a break. ... No, well, no one's limiting the MPs in anything, but if the debate on the first point is extended then at one stage of holding the session we have to make a decision to work without a break if we don't want to work until 3:00 in the morning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this warning arrived on time. Now comes the closing point on the first item of the agenda, Deputy Finance Minister respected Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's to this point of the VAT Act just a few clarifications. When it was first discussed here that some countries had a zero VAT rate on certain points and whether we were able to negotiate or not for the sake of the truth means that in this part, we believe that the best negotiations could be negotiated because all countries had no longer been able to choose to have a zero VAT rate since 2004 but the zero VAT rate applied only to the old EU member states. So here, when it comes to the UK and France and other countries, they used this right before the enlargement, but also during the 2005 enlargement, none of the countries had the right but to determine a minimum rate of 5%, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia used for certain product items. Also, when you say can that be more rate? It can't be anymore. So there are two rates that can be reduced. So that's this rate of 5% that we used and the second rate that we actually also used out of 10%. Also, in this part of the negotiations they are simply in the directives is done as well. Furthermore, about how important it is to apply, we here today implement certain directives in our legislation. We actually had yesterday's elections for the European Parliament the day before yesterday where we chose our MPs, and this way I also congratulate them, but to understand the responsibility of our MPs in Parliament is when they adopt VAT directives, when they are actually brought to Brussels how important it is to hear the voice of both Croatian MPs and in this House, in fact, to defend certain national interests. So today, unfortunately, we just implement certain things that have actually been voted before and we don't have, but this is important to say that it shows how important it is to be there, that we have quality people and that we are having a quality discussion there and that there is actually lobbying for these when we adopt directives, and then later on, when we don't actually have a problem implementing our system. We, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have been thinking about individual, whether certain products can be reduced, but given that we are entering the EU this year where we have problems and the time between VAT payments in the accounting categories and the return of ino entrepreneurs, we simply do not have room in the budget for further reductions, which does not mean that in the next periods when public finances are naturally stabilised, in fact, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is actually starting with further reductions in VAT rates. You saw in an extremely difficult year when it was also 2012 to consolidate public finances, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia by one very large sector, has reduced the VAT to 10 points. This is a strong incentive for both consumption and tourism consumption. And actually everything where we have time and space actually the Government of the Republic of Croatia will actually do to reduce this part of the income. But it should certainly be said that this is a significant source of revenue for the budget. So, we're talking about 40 billion kunas and unfortunately, from this part, there are some more holes that we have in both the pension system and the health system and the social one. So when there were speeches here that they were just taken from Croatian citizens that they were not given, and through that part of VAT they were stabilised finances and through this part of VAT they were paid and pensions, paid and salaries in health care, in education so that the government was also running social policy through that part. And as soon as the opportunity to actually stabilise finances is actually possible, the government will continue to think about reducing the tax burden on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37075	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37076	We move on to the Bill on Value Added Tax, first reading, PZE No. 312. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. "1. The proposal for a law on value added tax is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes are 82 for, 8 against and 14 abstentions have been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37077	We continue with the debate - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian National Bank, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 335; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Amendments and additions to the laws shall be adopted in order to comply with the legal acquis of the EU, in particular the harmonisation initiated by the European Central Bank 2012 Report and the comments of the European Central Bank of February 2013 and these amendments and amendments to the laws shall be adopted by the European Central Bank and the adoption and transposition of certain European rules in national legislation. This law stresses the stronger tasks of the Croatian National Bank to preserve the stability of the overall financial system, not just the banking system. In the event of possible crises in the financial system, CNB becomes a central-coordinated body. The Croatian National Bank is also given a more flexible investment in international reserves. According to existing law, the CNB may invest the reserve, financial institutions' instruments with a triple credit rating, but these changes introduce a more liberal model and the CNB can invest reserves in the instruments of those credit and financial institutions that have the smallest investment ratings. Furthermore, the inability to lend to the public sector is stressed, i.e. a ban on CNB buying, for example, government bonds or public companies bonds directly. There is a practice that must be followed by all central banks in the EU and an explicit request from the European Central Bank stemming from the primary EU law, i.e. the EU financing contract. This law also defines the transfer of the governor's powers to the deputy governor, the secrecy of the session and the material of the Croatian National Bank's advice, the confidentiality of data and the delivery of confidential information. In fact, a legal gap is removed and a replacement for the governor is determined in all situations of inability to carry out his duties. The confidentiality of information on the basis of which the advice of the Croatian National Bank makes decisions is prescribed and excludes the presence of the public to the meetings of the Council. The obligation to store data, the Institute of Secrets, shall be defined in accordance with the Statute of the European Central Bank and shall ensure the protection of the interests of the European Central Bank and of the central banks of the Member States. This law also provides for terminal harmonisation for other laws of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Electronic Money, and implementing and harmonising the infringement provisions with the Criminal Law in order to avoid overlapping with the provisions of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37079	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of SDP representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37080	Dear Vice President, Deputy Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Therefore, this legislative proposal is a legislative measure provided for by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2013 in the area of economic and monetary union. The proposal improves the existing law on the 2008 Croatian National Bank, and on the basis of the observations and proposals made by the European Central Bank at a working meeting in February last year. Amendments and additions to the laws are in line with a series of EU rules of the primary regulation and decisions of the European Council which, above all, distinguish the powers of the Croatian National Bank and the European Central Bank, especially after the introduction of the euro as an official monetary unit into the payment system of the Republic of Croatia. Regarding the introduction of the euro, this bill extends the powers of the Croatian National Bank. Therefore, the Croatian National Bank will no longer participate only in the implementation of the EU monetary policy but will also participate in defining the EU's monetary policy. Also specifically related to the euro, the law particularly stresses the measures needed to protect the euro, so also bills and coins from counterfeiting. The proposal also harmonizes the Law on the Croatian National Bank with three domestic laws, of course previously in line with the legal property of the EU, it is about the Criminal Law, and the Law on Electronic Money, and the Law on Credit Institutions. According to these laws, the electronic money institution is not defined as credit institutions, so they should also be included in the Croatian National Bank Act as separate institutions. This means, in particular, that the Croatian National Bank is also responsible for monitoring the business of electronic money institutions as it is responsible for the business of credit institutions, credit unions, platinum institutions and payment settlement systems. It is my intention to describe only a few of the most interesting, I would say the most important amendments and additions to this law. Therefore, existing legal provisions relating to the investment of the international reserves of the Croatian National Bank are amended. Namely, in the recent market conditions of the global rating agency, i.e. the credit rating agency often lowers credit ratings of states and banks, and we have experienced that fate very recently. The investment opportunities of international reserves have been significantly narrowed and made more difficult, and this was in fact the fundamental reason why the existing Law on the Croatian National Bank deleted provisions that limited the investment of international reserves only in those countries and those banks whose short-term obligations were assessed by one of the two highest grades, two internationally recognised credit rating agencies. Therefore, instead of these provisions, it is now proposed that the Croatian National Bank in international reserve management transactions can enter into contracts with the state and banks whose obligations by the two internationally recognised credit rating agencies have received an investment rating rating. Furthermore, the bill removes the legal gap relating to the replacement of the governor of the Croatian National Bank in the event of his death, temporary illness, the expiry of the term of office or the existence of any other reason for his resolution. According to the recommendation of the European Central Bank, that situation will be addressed in the future in such a way that the powers and duties of the governor are transferred to the Deputy Governor. In this regard, the functioning of the advice of the Croatian National Bank has also been arranged, so in the absence of the Governor, the Council shall lead the Deputy Governor. And when I mention the advice of the Croatian National Bank, this legislative proposal sets out which data and documents are members of the Croatian National Bank's advice and also the CNB employees are obliged to keep secret in terms of the provisions of the Statutes of the European Central Bank and of the European System of Central Banks, so that this duty of keeping secret remains even after the end of membership in the Council of the CNB and after the employment relationship of the CNB employees has ceased. The proposal for a law also redefines certain tasks of the CNB, thereby reshaping the task of managing the assets, in particular international reserves not transferred to the European Central Bank. Let me get this straight. So on the day of the introduction of the euro as the official currency in the payment turnover of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB is obliged to transfer part of the international reserves from its balance sheet to the European Central Bank. And related to the tasks of the CNB, a whole new task has been added to which the CNB undertakes to contribute to the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, of course and within the limits of its competence. The SDP club supports this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37081	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Martin Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37082	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course, we have before us a law that is, in its largest part, in line with the fact that Croatia joins the EU and what we are discussing today is, as the previous speakers have said, actually a fine adjustment of the existing provisions in line with the recent report of the European Central Bank. I would say that in the existing law of his provision, I can actually divide myself into three parts. The provisions applicable after EU accession and the provisions to be applied after Croatia takes over the euro as its currency. Therefore, the amendments proposed here represent, in fact, a clearer clarification and precision of certain provisions of the existing law and the implementation of certain regulations concerning the prevention of euro counterfeiting. What perhaps the existing law adopts as an important paper that has not been provided for so far in our legislation is, in fact, putting the CNB in office and task of granting and withdrawing approval for members of supervisory committees, credit institutions. The members of the supervisory boards of credit institutions have not been subject to any CNB approval until now and as we will see later, in accordance with the amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, this will be the case in the future. At the HDZ Club, we think it's a good decision that will contribute to the quality of governance in the banking system. Since this law does not fundamentally change and does not affect what is prescribed by the basic law, therefore the compliance and arrangement of the situation of the CNB under the conditions of EU membership, the HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37083	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Igor Czech Republic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37084	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The main role of the CNB is to ensure financial stability if possible, low inflation, a stable course and this severe economic and economic crisis that breaks over the back of our citizens, a flexible monetary policy. However, prominent economic experts argue, and we ourselves are aware that monetary policy can be expected to start in the economy alone and without deep structural changes. Then who's to blame for this deep abyss that we're in? State, current and previous governments, CNB or all of them? We think it's high time the CNB took a more active role in economic recovery. This is not an appeal, but a request because the institution in the state has with experts with the greatest economic knowledge if not HMB. The essence of the proposal for a CNB law is to improve the regulation of part of the matter resulting from the direct application of EU rules, the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the status of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank. Citizens and we who represent them in the House are not asking for anything more than what is in the CNB's authority, which is that the CNB in coordination with the Government is bringing visible measures to address economic problems. From the perspective of an ordinary citizen, it can be read that there is no coordination between the Government and the CNB. If that's not the case, and I hope it's not to dissuad us with visible measures that will be felt by all the farmers, craftsmen, farmers. Now that we're discussing the CNB Act, what are the latest profit data obtained by managing international reserves, in which financial instruments the CNB can invest reserves and what are the risks, and what is the current reserve situation? What about incompetence? The total amount of outstanding liabilities of business entities in Croatia is higher than 40 billion kuna and the number of citizens in the blockade is growing as the amount of their debt that has long exceeded 18 billion kuna. Our colleagues in the EU don't give a shit about our problems. A harmonised law with European standards will be voted on as is expected of us. Only with all these changes I wonder from which reserves we will pay membership fee for the period July-December 2013 is about 2 billion kuna. What changes does this bill make for us? In Article 4 of the words of the institutions for payment services, the point and word of the electronic money institutions are added. However, this Article 4 tells us about the tasks of the CNB and, among other things, that the CNB is independent and independent within the framework of the Constitution and of the law in the whole of the business and of its competence, which is particularly evident in the issue and withdrawal of approval and consent in accordance with the laws governing the business of credit institutions, credit unions, payment institutions and payment transaction purposes and foreign exchange operations. After joining the EU, there will be a number of requests to open branches of foreign institutions in the Republic of Croatia. the question is whether the CNB has independence in issuing such licences if it is more connected with the ECB by the new Act and will be influenced by them, which will lead to greater lobbying by the ECB. Article 99(1) also states that "in accordance with Article 30 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, the European Central Bank is obliged to transfer part of the international reserves found in the CNB's balance sheet to the European Central Bank on the day of the introduction of the euro as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia". When will the exact formula for calculating this amount be known and will it be predetermined and published because there is a possible variation in hundreds of millions of euros in foreign exchange savings that belong to all of us? What about Article 28 of the existing CNB Act, which this bill does not change, and it speaks of the protection of banknotes and coins from counterfeiting? The CNB shall be responsible for the technical analysis of suspected copies of banknotes and coins and for the implementation of measures to combat counterfeiting of banknotes and coins, in which it shall cooperate with the competent national authorities and institutions in the country and abroad. After the introduction of the euro, the Republic of Croatia undertakes to protect money from counterfeiting, according to the euro. At a cash manipulation conference, an example of Slovenia was mentioned when they introduced the euro, so they invested considerable funds to protect against counterfeiting the euro and trained people for it, and it happened to them that criminals forged tolars and traded them for real euro. It may not be bad to set up special commissions to look after such things and to apply experiences from countries that have introduced the euro as their currency. It doesn't change anything that matters at all. We agree with the EU but have some things that will be defined later, which can cost us dearly. In general, the impact of the policy on the CNB should be maximum limited, and the CNB should aim at ensuring low-interest loans to citizens and ensure economic growth and halt economic downturn. And what are the latest CNB actions? They sold euro to keep the course under control, and the objectives of the law said they would primarily fight inflation, which is 4.9% this year in the first quarter, which is a disaster, and it will be worse. Is that stable inflation? The CNB did nothing to improve the GDP situation, with huge unemployment. Most citizens today live on the edge of poverty, and what do we do? We are harmonising laws with European regulations and directives. Croatia does not experience economic growth for several years, the government has an extremely poor business climate, lack of investment, poor competitiveness of the Croatian economy. How do you improve the business climate and create more attractive conditions for investment? These are questions to which, among other things, the CNB should give a clear and concrete answer not only to answer but also to take concrete steps. Of course, we at the HDSSB Club as it is about harmonising the law with European directives will support the CNB Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37085	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. This is what we're done with. Deputy Minister doesn't need to be concluded. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37086	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 335. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37087	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37088	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 98 for and 8 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37089	We now move to unify the debate by three laws: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 298; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on financial conglomerates, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 299; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 305. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we have three legal regulations before us to comply with EU directives. In short, regarding the Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, in order to better regulate the financial market or to harmonise the legislative framework at EU level, and reacting to the global financial crisis by adopting 4. Directive 2009/11 means 2010/73 and 2010/78, 2011/89 of the EU introduced a series of additional measures and rules for all participants in the financial market of Member States. An important Capital Market Act should be amended and complemented with the aim of achieving full compliance with EU regulations and directives governing the EU's capital market area. The amendments and additions to the applicable Capital Market Act are in line with the provisions of Croatian regulations, compliance with the Criminal Law, and for the sake of... of the problems observed in practice, individual actions of participants in the Croatian capital market are further regulated. So the most important adjustments refer to capital requirements in that part I'm talking about investment companies where a certain part of their capital adequacy doesn't negative... reserves reduce capital, and they don't increase positive ones. So these are certain changes as to the appropriateness. Additional protection is also to strengthen clearer rules when publishing the prospectus of public offerings and data on issuers of securities traded on a regulated market, meaning much clearer and more specific, so that citizens who offer services from investment companies must be presented. Additional powers shall also be laid down by the European Supervisory Authorities which must monitor the entire financial system of the European Union, as well as the additional supervision of financial entities within the European Union’s financial conglomerates. So I would move on to another law that speaks of financial conglomerates, also to align with two directives. Directive 2010/78 so-called The Omnibus Directive on the powers of the supervisory authorities of the European Union. The second is the additional supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate. So those surveillance entities are expanding. So the Omnibus Directive was created in response to the financial sector crisis and introduced a request for integrated supervision of financial sector entities at European Union level for the integration of the European Union's financial services market and in order to prevent the potential spillover of the crisis between Member States and to restore the confidence of European Union citizens in the financial system. In line with the obligations of harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia, this Directive has been transposed into several legislative sectoral laws and the Law on Credit Institutions and the Capital Market, the Insurance Act and so on, introducing mandatory cooperation between supervisory authorities in the Republic of Croatia with those in the European Union, and coordinating in the case of a common system. For example, more powers of supervisory authorities and new obligations of entities in a conglomerate are also introduced, for example, to the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia, to provide details of their legal structure, governance, organisational structure, and to publicly publish their legal structure, governance structure and organisational structure. This will provide supervisory authorities with better information on the state of the entities in the financial conglomerate which will enable them to intervene in a timely manner in the event of a disturbance. The financial conglomerate is a group of companies with at least one insurance company and at least one banking sector or investment services sector. And their consolidated activities are considered significant. The criteria for significant ones are prescribed by law, the activities are significant if the balance sheet amount of the smallest financial sector in the group is greater than € 4.5 billion. So in the opening, operating on a single European market, we don't currently have such conglomerates. However, if they do occur, when they actually connect, they mean when both Austrian and insurance houses and banks when they actually operate on the Croatian market means trying to cover all those financial sector companies so that they can also be supervised and that they have to provide quality information to supervisory authorities in this case, the HANFI that will actually coordinate with European supervisory mechanisms so that it does not actually happen to come between certain companies to spill certain money, i.e. ultimately not to transfer a certain part of the risk. Also related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, three main components. Harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, then harmonisation with the European Court of Justice's ruling of 1 March 2011, and nomotechnical finishing. In addition, cooperation and exchange of information between the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the European Insurance and Structural Pension Insurance Supervisory Authority and other supervisory authorities have been made possible to establish a greater range of supervision and complete control and to prevent the spillover of the crisis from one member to another. Also related, it means much better harmonisation between our regulatory bodies and European bodies. It has also been brought into line gradually, as regards this European Court of Justice ruling, which abolished Article 5(2). The Directive on gender equality which allows Member States to raise from a bad rule uses gender as a risk factor when determining height and premium insurance contracts. This can no longer be used at individual level as a risk factor, thus avoiding discrimination when determining a particular premium. It is also specified in accordance with the European Commission’s information on the appropriateness. There will have to be an increase in one share of capital, and this is especially the part relating to core capital and clear capital. They're increasing by lifeless from 15 to 18 million kuna, from 22.5 to 27.5 and from 22 to 27. Most of our insurance companies are already in line with this capital-enhancing application so that in the future, if there are certain market disturbances, they can react as soon as possible and better. They are also in line with the concepts relating to mixed financial holding with the rules laid down in the Financial Conglomerates Directive. In the case of a mixed financial holding company, the super vision will be done on a consolidated basis. These also fines have been brought into line with the law of violations. So all these laws that are in front of you today actually apply a directive where the emphasis on better coordination means between these organisations, means our HANFE and tomorrow, and European supervisory bodies. The coverage is a much wider form of society, their interrelationships will also be under special supervision. So these intertransactions between them will also have to be particularly and reported and controlled in order to prevent or prevent any future disturbances on the financial market that, later on, we see, have a much wider impact on society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37091	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37092	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act are therefore, first and foremost, harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. In this proposal, the solution set out in the four Directives of the European Union shall therefore apply to our legal system in the area of the capital market. The adoption of these directives that we are now introducing into the Croatian legal system has proved necessary after the causes of the financial crisis whose consequences are felt daily. There was a need for greater and stricter regulation, a need to enable greater transparency and control capabilities, therefore control. The promoter, however, did not just limit himself to harmonising with the acquis. A number of amendments are also proposed to streamline existing provisions, respecting the needs of practice. A whole series of provisions has been arranged nomotechnically. The proposing efforts are observed to make certain provisions clear in order to remove ambiguity and increase legal certainty. We certainly welcome that. For example, the proposed amendments and additions to Article 27 represent an improvement in existing solutions to the process of withdrawal of the authorisation for the work of brokers and investment advisers in view of the results of the practices implemented until the application of the new provisions of this law. Furthermore, in Articles 45 to 49, the transparency of data extends to all forms of financial instruments, which is thus in line with the current practice of introducing new types of financial instruments into the capital markets in the Republic of Croatia. For example, the changes caused by the practical reasons are that the proposed change in the investment firm commits itself to the monthly report by the agencies on all large exposures and over-exposures, since the current practice is therefore too long in view of the situation on the capital market and the rapid changes that take place on the market. For example, a greater need for regulation and supervision is the introduction of an authorisation by the HANFA to regulate the operation of the fund operator, i.e. the fund management company, can prescribe deadlines and how the data is supplied, and the proposed text also constitutes a tendency to rationalise. Further to increased market rationalisation... the provision granting the Agency the right to impose a special supervisory measure, for example in breach of the Agency's obligation to report in a timely and accurate manner, because so far and at least the reporting error was the reasons for the withdrawal of the investment company's authorisation, which would certainly not have been considered a rational solution. It is noticeable that these laws were to be made clearer and more precise. For example. when prescribing the content of a decision on the company's main assembly in Article 332, and when prescribing a provision on the conduct of a market operator upon receipt of a decision to withdraw securities from... on a particular market. The law recognises the emergence of these financial instruments, so Articles 33 to 356 state the obligation of the market to publish data not only applies to shares but also to all financial instruments which we already have for a number of years on the market far more than just shares. Greater regulation, otherwise we welcome, in any case, the desire for greater regulation in this area, is also noticeable in Article 341. ... now regulated and reported transactions concluded outside the regulated market or motivator of that trading platform. This is also noticeable when prescribing the Agency’s notification obligation in the case of a public offer of securities without prior publication of the prospectus. The needs of the practice of the observed difficulties in the application of the law also conditioned the changes in a number of provisions, such as those in Article 410, which extend the period for drawing up and publishing quarterly reports from 30 to 45 days. This also recognised the needs of practice so far, which has shown that publishers need to extend this deadline since it is a report that also presents an annual report to their cumulative data, so there is no point in sabotaging that deadline and makes it impossible to submit a quality report. Therefore, the observations of the practice so far have also conditionaled on changes in Article 446 which clearly prescribe the taking of appropriate measures by the Agency towards issuers with a view to achieving a higher level of transparency. The proposed provision of Article 448, when we talk about further changes, provides for the HANFA's obligation to collect and publicly publish information on issuers whose securities are included in a given market, and yet again, what we stress, will contribute to greater transparency and effective control. However, in this provision, the text of the proposal reads: The Agency is authorised by the issuer to collect data, so that it may be concluded by some interpretations that there is only authorisation but not obligation, but this is essentially settled by the obligation to adopt a regulation that is prescribed under paragraph 3, but I believe that in the event that practice shows that it is necessary to further clarify that the law will also be intervened later. Once again when we talk about greater control and dissemination of instruments, we can also note this by modifying Article 480 when HANFA in detecting and preventing market abuses can achieve access to data and communication cases via e-mail and mobile telephony, it is interesting that this need for change is observed only now which may be a little surprising given the prevalence of forms of communication for 15 years, but in any case we tend to re-extend the possibility of detecting and preventing abuse. These amendments and additions have brought into line with other positive regulations, such as, for example, in Article 495 of the Implementing Law, in the part in which it is mentioned about the settlement of the supply of secured demand by means of non-judicialised securities. This is exclusively in Article 568 where the level of penalties is aligned with the Criminal Code. The proposal for a law should therefore introduce strict distinctions through clear legal descriptions of illegal acts in order to avoid possible duality between descriptions and criminal offences and in order to improve legal certainty. The section on offences extends the scope of criminal offences and introduces new offences which again contributes to stricter regulation and greater protection of market participants. I would say that this expansion and the introduction of new works is a necessity in today's globalised world in which manipulation disorders on one stock exchange are immediately reflected in another, greater regulation and protection of participants is absolutely necessary. We also see the need for greater regulation and control as necessary, as well as the punishment of participants who violate the rules on the capital market. The only authorized analysis of our capital market in the last ten-year period would point to the high possibilities of this market as areas of manipulation. For example, in the first half of the last decade, anyone who followed the stock market in times of growing markets could see continuous price increases, which did not follow the proper change in fundamentals, and about the activity of stock prices in proportion to quite incredible, I would say for some larger regulated markets. Otherwise, as can be found somewhere in literature, it is common to believe that all of the sudden price changes are upwards and downs, which do not have resistances in real some indicators or in a wider environment as a result of the manipulation of individuals or groups of professional manipulations. Due to the almost impossible predictability of the movement of stock prices which in a large number of cases did not follow the changes in the foundations or the emergence of some new circumstances which would so strongly justify unfortunately and a large number of small investors are completely, and some of them are likely to withdraw from the stock market forever, losing large amounts. To the truth, HANFA has tried to make certain changes to this will, such as the Market Manipulation Prevention Regulations, and the adoption of a Regulation on additional measures to prevent market manipulations which, among other things, aim to prevent the use of media access, the presentation of opinions on some securities that might affect the price of that securities. However, when we analyse the defendants' proposals submitted for the act under the Capital Market Act, we come to the conclusion that, for example, in 2011, only two indictments were recorded, and because they did not notify the public of privileged information under the prescribed conditions, and the agencies did not submit an annual financial report, an annual report and an audit report on the annual financial reports. In 2010, however, only two of the indictments were recorded for market manipulation and the other for starting with a new job related to the provision of investment services and after the withdrawal of the authorisation for work. Unfortunately, if we follow the capital markets, it would be difficult to agree that there were only so few cases of manipulation. With all this, we are witnessing that the past financial crisis we both feel, and not just us, has caused many peoples of the world in the financial world and the grammistical desire of this sector for as much money as possible, no matter what. As the stock market manipulations and irregularities that appear in the capital markets are difficult to detect, it is necessary to further develop measures to combat stock manipulation, design and new ways of making money on markets that do not have a foothold in public indicators, mitigate their impact and restore confidence in capital markets. The above shows all that I have been saying is that there is a need for further wider and better regulation of the sector, an extension of the criminal and criminal provisions that these amendments and amendments of the law are making. The SDP therefore supports amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act. As regards the proposal for a law on financial conglomerates, we also believe that it is going towards further regulation and supervision of entities to which this law applies, as well as, of course, compliance with EU rules and for the reasons that I have previously stated in the debate on the Capital Markets Act, we welcome the measures which guide and measure in both this area and in support of its adoption. The Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act also harmonizes Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU, allows for mutual cooperation and exchange of data between HANFA and the competent authorities of the EU for control. It goes according to the objectives set out in the proposals of the previous two laws and therefore the SDP club supports and adopts the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37093	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Martin Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37094	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, as you can see, the assembly is empty. There are almost more representatives of the government than representatives of the ruling clubs. It is, therefore, groundless, because from the words of the debate, it means that some people here should discuss each other, not that I should speak to the Assembly walls, the gallery or lead to these issues possibly some pre-election campaign for some viewers who are following this. This is about extensive, complex laws that clearly make it difficult to run a pre-election campaign, so there is no one here, because in order for these laws to be discussed, they need to be read, each of these proposals has one 250 to 300 pages. It is necessary to understand, and it is necessary to know what comes from this. Since the benches of the ruling empty, I conclude that neither they are interested, nor have enough knowledge to discuss it. However, when we face the consequences of these changes and additions for some time, they will probably wonder why the Croatian financial system is being monitored and regulated by European regulatory authorities. Because, among other things, we adopt and strengthen these laws. And I think, ultimately, that it should, because that is the essence of our membership and functioning in the EU and the functioning of the Single Financial European Market that is currently being built and in whose construction we are participating, and those who are working with European bodies will contribute further to their construction. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposals of these laws, but their importance and complexity in no way deserves such a situation in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37095	Thank you, too. Empty benches, they're not literally but it doesn't stop you from having your own discussion, or saying what you think about the laws. ... No, no, no. There's government representatives. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37096	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associates, I join fellow Dalic in the protest. Here are those laws Mrs. Dalic used to say. I thought I'd talk a little bit more about the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, with the fact that for a long time between insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia, there is a law that has been proposed on the benches of the Government and which is still being debated, and it's too soon. These are more of a technical nature, a law, an adjustment with the EU, so I won't. What I said this morning in the debate I think it's pointless to spend, especially in the winter heating, on this big room, that we can rent for much smarter things than here that ten MPs sit and chat. I'm among the most common, so I have the right to say it. I think it's about such important laws as the Credit Institutions Act, the Capital Market Act, the Insurance Act that the ruling coalition simply doesn't react to or if it does, someone will say if there are MPs in the Assembly Hall don't. Maybe one of my colleagues will tell me the right to not speak. I think it's our duty in Parliament to speak, so it's best that the President of the Parliament declares a break by autumn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37097	Thank you. We haven't heard anything since the debate, but it's a matter of perception. But the fact is that everyone should first clean up at their own doorstep and then suggest on. The clubs are over. Individually? Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37098	Thank you very much. Well, man simply asks himself how important it is to us and why every day, in principle, we insult this painting even more because what is happening in this Croatian Assembly is no longer an honor to anyone. You no longer know what to do in a few hours, let alone what to do a few weeks in advance. This is how the schedule has been made today so that these financial laws must be implemented and everything is done to ensure that the assembly is empty and there is no debate. However, I will say a few things because it simply indicates how much some things are done on the surface, how much one technical thing, which is to align these three very important laws with EU directives when one who does so does not know the best of matter, so it would be said to miss a complete topic. So just give me a few hints. In accordance with Article 3(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the European Parliament and the Council are to be appointed by the European Parliament and by the Council within a period of six months from the date of entry into force of this However, the question arises as to what is the Law on Audition and Article 7 which defines an authorised auditor? Are you disabling the Audit Act and Article 7 by this Capital Market Act? In accordance with Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Since when is this body consolidated? I guess a body that controls consolidated societies. It's a big difference because a consolidated supervisory body doesn't exist. You can send in 1, 5, 10 or 15 inspectors in control of what your assessment is, but if you say that these inspectors will control the consolidated entities, that is. investment companies then look quite different. However, apparently colleagues from the ruling coalition are not interested and will probably be adopted, if you do not accept this observation, this bill will be adopted under which the supervisory authority is consolidated. There's more pearls in there. Article 15, relating to Article 21 The Capital Market Act point 5, what is the criminal act against counterfeiting? Is counterfeiting desirable, so if someone doesn't fake it with him straight to prison and punish him when he's 3 to 5. Even there, they couldn't prescribe the provisions of the Penal Code. Because when it comes to counterfeiting, then it's defined by the Penal Code. Also, sharing classified information. This is a crime in the head of crimes against the Republic of Croatia, who is allowed to commit other crimes against the Republic of Croatia and to give away secrets? So the same question that's being asked is what you're actually asking with this bill of yours. I think this is where the proposer got very confused. The wrong crime is stated, I believe that it was necessary to stand on the issue and on the unauthorized acquisition of business secrets and the work that enters into the head of criminal acts against the economy. So you replaced the whole thesis. And with these replaced thesis if you vote, if you don't change that law goes completely wrong and it has nothing to do with harmonising legislation with EU directives. But I'm saying, in order to write this law and this little technical alignment, then matter must be known. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of The capital market law referred to in point 2 of point 1 which is the second unlicensed way in which consent has been granted for the appointment of a member of the management of an investment firm. In Article 19, there is a very interesting definition, and it refers to Article 25. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. If it does not do so within a specified time limit, it shall not remove the deficiencies from the request, and shall not be handled on request the same solution shall be rejected." I will read this famous sentence twenty times and give the Nobel Prize to one or the prize of not knowing how much one will be able to repeat it, let alone apply it later in the business. But if I'm not wrong about this problem listed in this famous sentence, which is practically impossible to repeat unless I read it, it's defined by the General Administrative Procedure Act. In Article 69 relating to Article 200 and the Capital Market Act in paragraph 2 I believe a mistake has been made in relation to the real content and purpose of the Directive. So here I wouldn't want to go any deeper, just a well-intentioned remark that a mistake has been made and you're going to analyze it. Article 71 concerning Article 290 mentions something that should be in the Conglomerates Act. And so on, there could be a number of more technical points, technical errors by various articles that should have been in line with EU directives, I'm just a few that if they stay like this, this law on the capital market leads in one totally wrong direction and I don't think it's just gonna be good and it's not going to end. As far as the Insurance Act is concerned, I believe that Article 2 of the amendment relating to Article 3 of paragraph 8 reads: "For insurance from life insurance groups and insurance from type of accident and health insurance concluded prior to the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, the distinction is permitted on a single basis based on the personal circumstances of the sexes." This is very interesting. Where the insurance company has taken into account the personal circumstances of the gender when determining the premiums and the amount secured from the insurance contract. What are the personal circumstances of the sex in calculating the premium, and what is the gender factor in calculating the technical reserves referred to in paragraph 7? Something you need to answer if you want this law to be passed. Because if you introduce a new definition then you have to define that definition in the law what you mean, what it refers to. And if I don't read anymore, unfortunately these comparisons will probably end if you don't change them, don't comply with what you need to comply with, and these are the other laws, as the law on compulsory insurance in transport has ended, you well know that this law has not passed Brussels, that it has been returned to you. It is clear to all in Croatia in which direction and which law should have been granted, but fortunately for these political pastures and accommodations in Croatia, we have now received a controller who will not allow certain legal changes. And therefore, Mr. Deputy Minister, I hope your associates have written these remarks. I think the Ministry of Finance should study before the final vote of this law in the Parliament on Friday, that the government, with its amendments, should react and correct these legal credentials and illogicalities. Probably if there were a lot of fellow lawyers, if they had taken this law in their hands and had combed it a little bit, they would have found much more legal illogicality. But I'm surprised that the Legislative Office that used to be a very good corridor regarding the compliance of certain laws that the Government adopted and discussed with other laws lets such a law into the parliamentary procedure. And I also didn't quite notice from these constituency committees dealing with these legal issues that they made more concrete remarks, but you can check these remarks. I would like you to coordinate them because I think that these laws that were made from 2005 to 2008 with certain amendments are fundamentally well-set and these are only amendments that are in line with EU directives. It would not be good if fundamentally well-set laws were broken with poor compliance with EU directives. So, we'll support these bill proposals as counterpart Dalic said, but since she didn't want to discuss I'll say one fence, and if you don't correct these things, we'll unfortunately have to be restrained, because it's just ridiculous. And allow me in these 30 seconds to say something, Mr. Chairman. I mean, for those of us in this assembly all the time, it's not just good what's going on, it's not good not knowing what's going to happen. I think we're passing laws today that are very tangling both the business world and the citizens, and above all they're including employees at the Ministry of Finance, it's the Customs Service Act. And it's not good that, these laws aren't being discussed, it's not good that the legislator doesn't warn you of certain illogicalities, so after all we can be who we suggest it is wrong, but simply like this, a Parliament isn't something that's nice to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37099	Thank you, too. Before I announce the replica of my colleague Vuksic, this agenda has been known for ten days, so I don't think there's any dilemma, I say there are points of the agenda to be discussed. We have a replica of your exposure, Comrade Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37100	Here, so fellow Shuker I'll give you two more minutes so you can talk. I'll just repeat it once again, it's not nice to see a hall like this in Parliament, half-empty, unfortunately it's not a rare case, especially not a rare case when in very important laws, so when someone comes to clean up their doors first, I think cleaning with a few trucks should be done or just over the ruling ones should they be out here in the Parliament rather than expecting the opposition to make them a nice picture in the Assembly and that they only come on Fridays.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37101	Was that a replica? Are you done? We have a reply to the replica, here's your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37102	Yes, my colleague Vuksic, I agree with you. Also, since the only thing that will remain of this debate will remain some kind of record, phonograms from the session of you who are not members of the Finance Committee, these laws were discussed on the occasion of a month ago on the Committee on Finance before they were even included in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament session, which is totally unusual. The approvals never discuss the items of the agenda if it is not some thematic session, the items of the agenda that the Croatian Parliament did not put into the agenda. So a month ago, a review was discussed on committees and today even the leaders of the Finance Committee are not here, it is best to say about what we think about the working bodies of our constituency committees, that these working bodies in principle did not look very well at these laws. There are more technical changes and assessments but what is devastating is this assembly, and if we were not interested, today we were talking about the VAT law which is very tangling Croatian citizens. Unless we're interested in harmonising these laws. Because you generally don't have another financial conglomerate in Croatia, you don't. We passed the law, so it is something that should happen tomorrow and what will happen if someone comes and buys the same Croatian insurance and postal bank and buys more and makes a financial conglomerate. What's gonna happen? Maybe that's exactly the law getting ready for it, that someone tomorrow who's gonna buy it all together. That's what I'm talking about. So a law that does not have practical application is harmonised with EU Directives, laws that have practical application and the Law on compulsory insurance in transport has clearly shown us when someone wants to meet under quotes, then Brussels says that a little too much is coming out and you can't do it in Croatia. And we've missed these three laws like they're gone, and tomorrow, when we have problems and some smart-ass use it for some inconsistencies, then we'll all say that we don't have a clue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37103	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37104	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 298. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Minister Linic, amendment first on Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37105	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37106	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Article 135
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37107	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 135.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37108	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third amendment to Article 176
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37109	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment to Article 176.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37110	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment four to Article 179
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37111	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 179.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37112	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37113	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 218.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37114	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 103 votes for and one abstention, 105 votes for and one abstentioned Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act is in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37151	And we move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 329 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, please choose the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are facing another law that the Republic of Croatia needs to comply with EU directives, which refers to the functioning of the financial system. The amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act result in the need to comply with relevant directives and other EU regulations and the need to improve certain provisions of the applicable law. The harmonisation with the Directive concerns several areas. The first and most important area of change concerns the policies of reception, the holder of key functions in credit institutions and the higher management, the holder of control functions and the like, compliance with the 2010 CRD-free Capital Requirements Directive. The objective of the change is to limit the payment of variable bonus receipts to an appropriate level, to advocating investment in increasing business risks to achieve greater personal earnings or bonuses. The financial crisis was, in part, the result of the precisely excessive and unwise takeover of risk motivated by the achievement of the bonus; therefore, the payment of the variable reception of higher management and the holder of key functions of this law is linked to the quality of risk management and the fulfillment of the long-term interests of credit institutions and their height or ratio of fixed and variable part of the reception will be defined by a sublegal act or by a decision of the CNB where any other details relating to receipts such as the prohibition of payment of the variable part in full will be determined immediately in cash. The share will have to be obtained in financial instruments, shares and the like, 40% e.g. the variable receipt will be delayed and in the case of financial difficulties the bonuses will have to be reduced or even abolished. According to current EU rules, the variable part must not exceed one-third of the total receipts and further discussions on the rate of fixed and variable wage in the framework of the adoption of the package... or new Capital Requirements Directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These measures prevent the breach of the financial stability of credit institutions and the potential stability of the entire banking system. So far in the Republic of Croatia, reception policies have not been governed by laws or sublaws, but by the missing freedom of credit institutions. Some of them have already adapted due to EU owners' rights under EU rules, as most banks are now coming from the euro area, and in this part they have aligned. In accordance with these amendments to the law, each credit institution will have to set up a reception committee, composed of members of the Supervisory Board, a minimum of three members who will advise just in the making of reception policies. The policies of the reception will have to be consistent with effective risk management and the Croatian National Bank will adopt a sublegal act to regulate the rules of procedure and criteria relating to the policy of reception. Credit institutions must comply with new rights by 30.6. 2013 In addition, these amendments to the laws introduce us to the obligations of more strong supervisory cooperation over the banking system of the CNB with the European Banking Supervisory Authority, as well as enhanced and comprehensive consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates of mixed financial holding company on the set group will apply all prescribed prudential and other requirements. Furthermore, the guidelines of the European Banking Supervisory Authority introduce stricter conditions for management and supervisory board members are also introduced, and the prior compliance of the CNB with the new requirements by 30.6.3.years and, by 31.3.2014, to carry out an assessment of the applicability and to submit a request by the CNB for consent to perform its functions as members of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, as regards the improvement of the law, it also refers to strengthening the internal control system, not giving that part of internal control that financial institutions can outsource or that they can extheanise them. It also extends the exception to keeping a bank secret, the law provides disclosure of data to the State's attorney, disclosure of information on the guarantee, the judiciary or the hostage, and also on the credit relationship in which the parties are, the data is only revealed in the wrong payments. If you have the wrong payment then you have a hard time getting some feedback later. Here, in that part, they were made much clearer, more transparent that it had to be respected. Then additional arrangements are made for the purchase of plasma, the transfer of plasma can be carried out but if the transaction does not expose the credit institution to additional hidden risks. The CNB also receives a series of powers in the event of a credit institution crisis, so it can appoint a commissioner as well as a special administration. Whenever it assesses that the liquidity or insolvency of a credit institution is compromised, the powers of the current management and the supervisory board shall cease. Until now only in exceptional cases have been possible in supervisory measures or with a liquidity loan approved by the CNB. The CNB can also develop a recovery plan process, convert profits into capital and set out some other measures to stabilise credit institutions if they find themselves in difficulties. Also a proposal to open a bankruptcy and pre-demand proceedings... a credit institution can only submit a CNB or a liquidator. Prior to the request, any credit institution’s credentials could submit a reputation risk. Lastly, as regards consumer protection, changes and additions to the Credit Institutions Act require full and stronger transparency of the credit institution in terms of fully informing the consumer about the product which includes data on the applicable interest rates, the way interest is calculated, the conditions at which interest rates, fees, fees, commissions, effective interest rates can be changed. It means an even more transparent relationship required at EU level for end-users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37153	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the club, I open the debate, on behalf of SDP Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37154	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another law that has an E mark, so it is in line with EU legislation. He is the truth of a complete law that fully regulates the entire problem of credit institutions, from their establishment, work to their closure. It is good that this is done in one place, and on the other hand it is good that it is fully consistent with the practice and the directive, rather with the directive than with EU practice, because we see that the EU has had some problems here as well as the entire financial sector in the world. But apparently this crisis has forced everyone to tighten the rules for the conduct of credit institutions, banks and others. So how's it going to be with us? It will be arranged as it is in other EU members. As far as they're concerned, so will we. And as we see from this proposal, many things are better arranged or served. So we are aware of the fact that this recession is present in Europe and in the world, it has been going on for five years almost without interruptions with small or slightly more significant or slightly smaller advances. And I'm sure this crisis can somehow be measured by a major global economic crisis since the early '29s and '30s. One day, when historians and economists are analysed, it is likely that a good part of the blame for such a crisis in the world is well caused by the behaviour of credit institutions, especially by banks and the entire financial sector, that because of their greed for high and rapid profits, they question not only their credibility, their economic market, but also their entire economies. In this sense, a good provision in this law setting out both different or more precise rewards for the management of banks, or all credit institutions, to tie their business, to reward them with responsibility for the work they do because they often entered high bonuses, high profits for the bank, resulting in their high bonuses entering the risk-weighted rankings that they later had to resuscitate. Easy for bank owners than often for complete countries and complete economies. This is the problem that has always been encountered when it comes to credit institutions and banks when they make a profit and they make good money then their owners share it, and when the problems come, we all, or those economies that are tied up and those countries that are connected to that bank. And in that sense, this law also serves how to say big tools, greater opportunities to manage these credit institutions, not entering their independence of work but in some way putting into a position of greater responsibility than it has ever been. In this particular example, when it comes to the CNB, it now has much greater powers and opportunities but also a commitment and to monitor the situation in all credit institutions, practically through the Commissioner if it sees that the bank does not stand well, that it has liquidity problems, that it is insolvent, etc. that it reacts quickly and promptly and can, if I can say so, introduce a new administration and replace the existing unless it implements the recovery programme or the bank should function anyway. So this law will also protect those who receive credit, so citizens of the economy, consumers. It will protect both economies and states as a whole but it will certainly protect the banks from them and the credit institutions themselves, from theirs, often times the greed that led to many being in trouble, thus pulling all of us into trouble. The fact is that here today in Croatia and these years, and when the crisis is, when the whole economy is in crisis, when citizens live badly, that, for a fact, the financial sector is very good. That they have very high profits that move at an annual level of 4, 4.5 billion kunas and are actually shown in the long term by seeing that the entire financial sector does not actually share the fate of the economy and citizens, does not share the fate of the people it works with and thus cut the branch it sits on in the long term. Because in order for a relationship to be good, it has to be partnered when it comes to credit institutions, partnerly in the sense that both they and their partners, their borrowers, therefore, the economy and citizens live well in it. If only one lives well and the other doesn’t, it simply won’t take long. And the question of who they will lend more to and from who, who will be able to repay them if they are just banks and financial institutions living well and others not. In this law, there are a number of proposals that go in terms of consumer protection, so those that are partners to credit institutions. Since formal, banks and credit institutions are therefore formally bound to some of the documents that must be given to users whom they have not so far had to do. To treat not only the debtors equally but also his judges and guarantee that he must inform them of all the consequences, details of the contract, etc. That all key information must be provided in writing to the creditor. That they must be referred to the general terms of the bank to deliver to them rather than as if there are now those somewhere on the website or who knows where, so they write in small letters and what it says in fine print is often important and people don't see it. What is particularly important is that and this is about changing interest that banks can no longer change interest in their own way, because they estimate that there has been a change in the market and an increase in interest if the variable interest is only agreed on, so they will be able to do so, but only provided that there is a clearly established parameter in the conclusion of the contract to which this potential increase will be treated, therefore, which parameters must be increased. If there is an increase in them only then they will have the right to do so, but these parameters will have to be listed in advance. So anyway, it's going towards, I'd say better quality and better protection for consumers, so, credit users, but long-term viewing, it's actually protection and credit institutions themselves from their greed. Because if they put all the people they're working with, all the partners they're with, the economy question of who they will work with and how they will be able to function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a series of these changes that are being introduced to us and those within the European Union are not old dates and will certainly introduce more order and responsibilities. There is also a proposal from Franak Association for their amendments, I will not refer to them because, as far as I know, part of this problem that solves this Act, the Law on Credit Institutions is also being resolved by the Consumer Credit Act and it will soon be found in the procedure here of the Assembly and part of the things proposed by Franak will be discussed and implemented in the Consumer Credit Act. In the end, I believe that this law will certainly introduce more order and responsibility to credit institutions. Presumably perhaps optimistically less unsustainable greed in credit institutions. But in any case, they'll protect the users of the loan. Those who are direct users will thus protect both the countries and the economies in which they are located, and by doing so, I would say beyond this to protect the situation in the global and European economy so that we will no longer be because of this behaviour of credit institutions so that we do not get into an even worse situation or a new wave of recession and crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37155	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37156	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is certainly one of the order of the laws implementing this today's harmonisation in part of the financial sector, and I think that this law too has a certain, certain overlap with other laws concerning the financial sector in the section in which it provides for more precise clarifications, determines cooperation with international or European regulatory authorities in this particular case of the European Supervisory Authority. Therefore, the general trend of change in the European Union’s financial system, strengthening supervision, strengthening cooperation between supervisory authorities and strengthening the depth of the details that supervisory authorities seek, see and expect from their supervisory entities. Of course, this is the result of the crisis, and it is aimed at preventing the adverse consequences that can arise again in the conditions of stronger economic growth build up in the financial system and to prevent in fact some future crisis that would again cause the financial system. Croatia, of course, participates in all these processes, at this point in their acceptances, of course after 1.7 and their design, because it is clear that this process of building a single European financial space has not been completed and that, of course, the issues of the banking union and the issues of participation in the banking union, the position and positions that Croatia will take in this regard. But those questions will certainly come later. What we have today and what we are discussing today are new provisions relating to the award policy in the banking sector in which the spirit of greater supervision of the financial incomes of bankers is generally taken over. I believe that these provisions that are being built in here will not be entirely harmful, but will essentially provide certain guidelines for rewarding and in this sector. However, it should be remembered, however, that the way these provisions are prescribed, that this is related to risk-taking and risk-management issues, i.e. the law says that reception policy must be aligned with risk-taking and risk management. I think that the definition of this policy should therefore be taken into account and made sure that the additional system does not actually freeze further because what is our problem today is the problem that the banking system does not approve of loans, that the banking system is in a certain way frozen even though there is money in it. This freezing is, in fact, the consequence of bankers' unpreparedness to take risks, to make risk-related decisions, and therefore I believe that the implementation of these legal provisions should be kept in mind that they are implemented in such a way as not to further freeze the banking system and to reduce the tendency of all those working in it, to face the risks of approval of new placements because the approval of new placements is a risk that is clearly being assessed in our economy today quite high. Therefore, a little warning to the legislators, a small note to think about. The aim of these provisions is good, but at this time in the way they are implemented and in the way in which the award policies will be linked to the willingness to take risks should be taken into account that unwanted effects are not achieved. The law lays down stricter conditions for the appointment of members of the management and supervisory boards of banks. It's connected to what we discussed about the CNB Act. An obligation shall be introduced to grant membership in the supervisory committees of banks, and the National Bank shall carry out the process of assessing the suitability of candidates. I repeat, we believe that this is a good solution, we believe that this is a solution that will increase the quality of staff and persons performing the tasks of membership in supervisory committees, not only in relation to Croatian citizens who are members of supervisory committees in banks but also in relation to foreign citizens who send and in the supervisory boards of Croatian banks are appointed by their foreign owners. It may also be believed that a better quality policy towards membership in supervisory committees might prevent some of the problems that we are witnessing these days, which come from the banking system. However, in defining the criteria that must be met by a member of the bank's management, there is one interesting item. In Article 15 amending Article 45 of the existing law, which states that the condition for membership in the management of the bank is that a person seeking a permit for membership in the administration must be able to devote enough time. I don't understand simply what the law wanted and thought, what the promoter meant when he said that the criteria for membership in the bank's administration were that this person must be able to devote enough time. I'm afraid that's where some language problem came in. Article 15, which amends Article 45, will allow it to act really insecurely and ridiculously. However, what I see in this law other than harmonisation is, in fact, strengthening certain instruments that the CNB prepares or at least strengthens its ability to intervene in the case of banks that may be faced with problems in business. The strengthening of these CNB instruments is in fact seen in the provisions concerning the regulation of the purchase of plasma and provisions concerning the CNB Commissioner, or the conditions in which the CNB can appoint a permanent and in fact secure a permanent and silent presence in a bank where it assesses itself that such a need exists. In view of the fact that there was talk of high bank profits here, however, the second view shows that part of the banks and in fact, the two-digit number is already faced with losses and can no longer bear the burden of the crisis. I therefore believe that it is good to strengthen the provisions of the Credit Institutions Act, which the Croatian National Bank can intervene in a timely manner and in a timely manner where necessary. It is interesting, though, that I point out only as little interest in reducing penalties, criminal penalties for banks and members of the administration in the event of violations of this law and it is carried out consistently through all articles. By adopting these amendments and additions, we will certainly get one complex law on credit institutions. The essence and nature of this law is its complexity. The law that exists in other EU Member States is all relevant to the modern, modern banking system. Unfortunately, however, the adoption of this law will do nothing, and we are doing nothing to address the fundamental issue and the fundamental problem facing the Croatian economy today, which is in fact one freezing of the banking system, one unwillingness of the banking system to play its fundamental role, the role of financial intermediation and the lending of other actors in the economy. Of course that question is not just a matter of bank behavior. It comes out of the overall state of the economy, from precisely this risk, from the credit and the population and the economy which unfortunately is in decline and which unfortunately the current economic policy does not help much or actually devastates. However, what should be highlighted here should encourage government representatives to comment on whether and what measures the Government is taking or plans to take to in fact in a certain way encourage the banking system to start doing what it is doing, to start lending to start and to look at the risks of its business in a different way. One of the methods, one of the possible solutions that might be considered in this direction, is contained in the provisions of this Law in the section on the transfer of bad credits. Given the long-term and depth of the crisis, given the number of banks already faced with losses, which means that the burden of the crisis through the failure to collect credit has already been significantly pressed and we keep it in the Croatian Democratic Community club that the time has come for Croatia to consider the process of discharging part of the bad loans, part of the bad balance sheet into a separate entity, into a separate body in order to in fact free the balance sheet of banks from bad credits and the perception of high risk in the lending business not only of perception but of the reality, of high risk in the business of crediting economic operators. Different other countries were headed this way, headed this way the moment they faced the crisis. We still have this advantage to enjoy, i.e. that the economy and citizens still have a certain advantage from the fact that the Croatian banking system is stable, that the Croatian banking system is not affected by the crisis. But his stability was not affected by the crisis the way that it happened in some other countries. However, his stability has not been given forever. The longer the crisis lasts, the longer the period without growth and without recovery lasts, the greater the burdens on the banking system, of course. We therefore believe that the time has come to consider the possibility in Croatia too, to consider ways, to transfer part of bad credits and to remove from the banking system into a separate institution, to something called in the jargon a bad bank in order to create conditions and encourage the banking system to restart the lending process without which recovery will still be difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37157	Thank you, too. We have a disagreement. Replica Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have a replica, too. This is how we are taught to read Klaic's reply to the answer or in the case of congregation work the answers from the bench, so I will disagree, but I will complement my colleague and say that he has the right to refer to Article 15, which is amended in Article 45, which is the conditions for a member of the credit institution. That this new philosophy of Article 45 is far more indeterminate and worse than it is existing, and that the taste of everything is that these conditions are not actually determined by law, i.e. they are very general and unspecified. It is then said in paragraph 3 that the Croatian National Bank will more closely prescribe the conditions set out in paragraph 1 so that all that has so far been laid down in Article 45, which are the conditions, what kind of education this person should have, as deemed to be under the relevant professional qualifications, abilities and experience defined by this law, which are considered to be, for which works of the person who thinks he should not be punished in the Administration of the credit institution, etc. Therefore, this one detailed and scipulated article 45 is now being determined in a general manner. It even seems to me that he's calling on some of the wrong articles of the law. For example, when it comes to who has a good reputation, it says that one who has a good reputation can be a member of the administration, and it is said that a person who is legally convicted of the crimes referred to in the article and point 1 of the subpoint and, in that article, writes information about the impunity of the acquirer under the fact that it is quoted as being who and who can devote enough time. I don't know how the CNB will determine and control it. Does anyone have a sit-in, have anyone to look after a child, so does anyone have a lot of time to do this job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37159	By the way, my remark to you was on the trail of a colleague of the Mlakars from your club who was a lawyer, I don't agree, a replica in the legal jargon, I suppose. We have a reply from our colleague, Dalic, to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Dalic. ... Comrade Dalic, reply to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37160	Well, I just actually wanted to complete what my colleague Lovrin pointed out. In addition to the curiosum that exists in this article, it therefore states that the condition for a member of the administration is that a person can devote enough time to fulfil the obligation under his jurisdiction, that in fact I consider it a curiosum and the fact that the law prescribes that a person is legally convicted of criminal offences is considered not to have a good reputation. That's probably the kind of thing that we need to be prescribed by law. This probably means that the National Bank met somewhere with a practice in which the conclusion of a lack of good reputation stemmed from a powerful verdict was probably rejected somewhere in a process. So perhaps that is why this law is so thick when even such obvious things have to be established by law in order to make it quite clear later and to show that the one who is rightly condemned does not have a good reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37161	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37162	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I didn't think of answering the debate at all, because since the Franak Association sent all the clubs one request, or one request to speak for them on their behalf and for their account here today at this pay phone, and regarding this Law on Credit Institutions, I was offered by my colleague Jelusic, who said that he would not mention the Franak Association because their rights are being settled by the Consumer Credit Act. Their rights are also resolved by the Law on Mandatory Relations, but are also resolved in part by this law. And since we are all witnesses of Croatian practice in which we have even a few laws as a matter of fact or a particular problem, we are also witnessing that everyone interprets and reads the law that suits him the most at that time, so that as such he wants and applies it then I don't see why we shouldn't do better if we could do better to all future credit debtors, and also to those who are not one and the same thing written in several laws, so that we can be sure that whatever law we take into account that same principle and that legal letter can be applied. I will use this time right here on behalf of the Franak Association, and this is for the public and for the record to say that all parliamentary representatives, or all clubs, have asked the Government, or the Proposer, to give one amendment to which their legal status is resolved in a certain context. At the end of the year we had recorded about 200 thousand housing, meaning active housing loans. About 75 thousand of them were in Swiss. The charge is about twice as bad as the ones in the euro. 9.15% we have non-refundable loans and it is all that and all these data are exactly what we are talking about when we talk about the Croatian economy and at all about how we spend, i.e. consumer habits and opportunities of Croatian citizens. The Franak association asks that Article 116 of the added paragraph 8 and changes in the way in which the variable interest rate is spoken, that the calculation based on the sum of the variable parameters at the time of entry into force of individual contracts and fixed margins is not to be obtained to the extent of interest greater than the first agreed interest at the beginning of the repayment plan. In accordance with this paragraph, any additional costs relating to this may not be charged to the credit user. That would be logical and that I think we would all accept. I will not continue to owe with this proposal "Franak Association", I think that you have all read it, so that, by Friday, we should think about it, not only of us MPs, but also of the legislators, because they also got it, so that we can do what would be best for Croatian citizens at this point, the most painless, not only for current users of credit, but for all future citizens. And only when we push these amendments, or citizens who face problems, when we accept such amendments, will we only be able to say that we are all here for the sake of one side, which is for the benefit of the citizens of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37163	Thank you, too. Deputy? No, I don't. This concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37164	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 329. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Nancy Tyrelli. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to make a statement on the amendments. First of all, the Legislative Committee. First amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37165	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment to Article 9. Explanation. You can't accept the unification of the head from the so-called. the new and old Penal Code, as the purpose of the provision of Article 9 is that the Croatian National Bank, upon request from the criminal record of the power of condemnation of a qualifying share, shall receive full information according to both the new and the old law. If this were to be united, such information would be far more difficult. And that's why we're proposing for full information to the People's Bank not to unite their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37166	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37167	Let me get this straight. We were only looking from the aspect of nomotechnics. However, given the telelogical interpretation that is now saying what is our goal for all to obtain such data, then they can withdraw this amendment, the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37168	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment two to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37169	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment to Article 15, i.e. the argument that the Committee considered it to be a completely indeterminate and insufficient condition set out in the provision of Article 15 under which Article 45 is amended and under which a member of the management of a credit institution may be the person who can devote sufficient time to fulfil the obligations. We can also agree as proposing that this is insufficiently defined, but since this is a formulation that we find in the guidelines for assessing the suitability of the management body members and holders of the key functions of the European Banking Authority, then we propose not to accept the amendment because it is more or less a European formulation as indeterminate as it is for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37170	Proposer? The amendment is withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37171	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37172	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37173	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 64.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37174	Amendment 5 to Article 136
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37175	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 136.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37176	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37177	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 139.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37178	We're moving on to Nancei Tyrell's amendment MPs. Amendment 1 to Article 116
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37179	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept amendments to Article 116. The argument, we estimate that the proposed amendments to the Credit Institutions Act have significantly protected the users of the credit against creditors and creditors. However, we consider that the proposed amendment is a good intention but the Government believes that this should be applied in the Consumer Credit Act and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will also refer to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act for a few weeks where it will try to protect citizens and credit users by creditors with such suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37180	Amendment holder, representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37181	I would like to thank the Minister for your explanation regarding the proposed amendment. Just to make things clear to the public. As such, the Credit Institutions Act is good for future credit users, however harmful to existing users precisely because it does not allow them to apply, with them banks will continue to voluntarily determine the formulas for calculating that variable interest rate. That's why we wanted to protect these amendments from existing loan users. I personally felt that it would not harm if certain provisions were found both in the Credit Institutions Act and in the Consumer Credit Act. But, like you said, there's a new law coming soon, so we'll see if it'll be accepted. I accept the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37182	The amendment is withdrawn if I get it right, right? Okay. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 104 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Credit Institutions Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37183	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.B. 304. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary, please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendments and additions to the Accounting Act result from the need to comply with Directive 2009/49 EC of 18 June 2009 amending and supplementing Directives 78/660 and 83/149 as regards the requirement for the pooling of financial reports for medium-sized companies and the composition of consolidated annual financial reports. The EU has adopted this directive in order to simplify procedures, reduce administrative burdens on companies and create a more favourable business environment, and to allow accounting rules to make EU companies more competitive, efficient and more successful in the global environment. It is important to stress that the directive has received broad support from Member States. The Directive enables Member States to exclude parent companies whose individual and joint financial positions and business performance are not relevant to the truthfulness and objectivity of the presentation of the financial position and the performance and the business of the firm from the obligation to draw up consolidated annual financial reports. The applicable law makes it mandatory to put them together now. This amendment also allows for the same and changes in which the parent company must state the names and the seat of its subsidiaries and explain the criteria for determining the significance of the joint and individual, dependent companies in notes with separate annual financial reports. While authorities authorised to supervise entrepreneurs in part of accounting operations may lay down the conditions for determining the significance by applying the provisions of Croatian financial reporting standards, i.e. international standards of financial reporting relating to significance. In addition, regardless of the directive, due to the achievement of a uniform financial reporting of all financial institutions of legal persons carrying out the factoring activity are classified as large entrepreneurs and are obliged to apply international standards of financial reporting. Also, this law is in line with the provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37185	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37186	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, This is another legislative proposal bringing national legislation in line with the EU acquis. It is specifically about harmonising with the directives which set out the requirements relating to the assembly and publication of financial reports of companies. Two changes are important here. First, the law stipulates that companies that consolidate their annual financial reports do not have to include those dependent entrepreneurs that do not have a significant impact on the financial position and on the performance of the parent company’s business that implements the consolidation. However, the parent company is required to state in a concrete annual financial report the reasons for which it did not cover dependent entrepreneurs in the consolidation. This amendment is certainly welcome to liberalisation in financial reporting which will have a positive impact on the reduction, on the simplification of financial reporting and on the reduction of the administrative costs of entrepreneurs, which is certainly not a small matter in this crisis time. The second amendment is not related to harmonisation, other important changes with EU directives, so the change was initiated by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and it is that legal persons performing the factoring activity are classified as large entrepreneurs and, of course, they become bonds to apply international standards of financial reporting regardless of the size of their assets, regardless of the number of employees and traffic achieved, so regardless of those standard criteria applied in the process of classifying legal persons by size. The SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37187	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ representative Ivan Shuker's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I am to get involved in this heated debate on these financial laws that are in line with EU directives. However, with the harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with the legal gains of the EU, I do not think that around these technical harmonisations we should pass so easily because perhaps the biggest problem at this time in Croatia is also when we love to argue politically about this debt towards the state of mutual non-payment, it is precisely the interlinking societies that, according to the law on interlinked societies, are not so because if you look at how they operate and what benefit these fundamental assets are. Therefore, one of these seemingly technical harmonisation of legislation is in practice knowing this resourcefulness of Croatian entrepreneurs, I think that in a negative sense can be extremely dangerous because it is illogical that someone who deals with basic activity has established 10, 15 or 20 companies. Another thing, a society that's so-called. a project of a company set up, a company for a single project. So it deals with the management of the project from the start of the investment to the end of the investment and later when the project comes together, so it is something that is not controversial and which is defined by law. However, it is illogical to repeat when someone deals with one activity and then opens ten or 15 companies dealing with each segment because unfortunately if you look at the debt list and use the OIB then you would see in most cases that these companies today owe considerable funds to the state budget and are also large participants in mutual non-payment. All of them are closely linked to one or two companies that are doing very well at the moment, and therefore I say this provision which says that the parent company that has only a subsidiary whose individual, joint, financial position and performance of business are not relevant for the truthfulness and objectivity of the representation of the financial position and performance of the group is not necessarily to draw up a consolidated financial report. Now look at what I find a little suspicious and what I don't like, and that's saying that success and business are not relevant to the truthfulness and objectivity of the display of the financial position. So if you don't define what is meant by truthfulness and objectivity. Are these some financial indicators, what is it? You're practically leaving the entrepreneur one subjective right to decide whether it's a society or not. Whether this company should be contained in the report or not. And then it is said later, the law proposes that those parent companies should state the names and seats of all dependent companies, specify the names and headquarters of all subsidiaries and explain the criteria for determining the significance of joint or individual dependent companies in notes with separate annual, financial reports. So when such a society makes a certain manifesto, and when it damages either the state or several other companies, then it is too late to hunt him down and seek his connection with the parent society because there is obviously not enough financial resources at that time to charge for it. Therefore, one provision harmonising Croatia's legislation with the acquis of the EU but given some historical tradition in Croatia and in the conduct of this financial business, I think that there should be some protection in the inside of the provisions that individual manifests should be prevented and, finally, as regards this other provision, in Article 3. Item 5. After the word leasing society adds the words of a legal person who performs the factoring activity in any case that because you never know how much power and how much power and what factoring society will do. The HDZ Club will therefore support this proposal to amend the accounting law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37189	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37190	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 304. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37191	We move to a united debate by - Final proposal for a law implementing the European Union Regulation in the field of payment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 307 - Final proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation No. 236/2012. The European Parliament and the Council of 14 March 2012 on short sale and certain aspects of credit derivatives based on the formation of non-fulfilment status, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 308 - Final proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation No. 148/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, the central other Contracting Party and the trade repository, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 311 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, please choose the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So there are three regulations in the area of financial operations ahead of us. These are the three regulations that are actually implemented by the EU through the Law, the legal legislation of the Republic of Croatia since the date on which the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the EU, the EU Regulation will be applied directly to the Republic of Croatia. The Regulation in the area of payment turnover concerns a regulation on equalisation of fees for national and appropriate cross-border payment transactions and a SEPA Regulation setting deadlines for the application of the SVEPA project means a single euro payment area project of the Single Euro Payments Area. The adoption of this law allows for the application and implementation of those regulations with a Croatian legal system in such a way that the law lays down the competent authorities for the exercise of supervision and is governed outside the judicial proceedings, the procedure calmly and the infringement to act contrary to the provisions of these Regulations. If the payment service user considers that the service provider has acted against the regulation having the possibility to file a complaint against the payment service provider mainly to the CNB, the CNB will cooperate with the competent authorities from other Member States... when the user has had a complaint against the payment service provider from another Member State and the service is provided directly in the Republic of Croatia. The law also found a breach of the amount of fines for individual infringements when the payment service provider acts contrary to the provisions of the Regulation. What is also important here is that the application of the Equality of Compensation Regulation in Member States where the cost of citizens is reduced when we enter the EU, which will reflect on our citizens, because the regulation allowed the compensations charged by the payment service provider to the user for cross-border payments to be equal to the fees charged for the corresponding national payments of the same value and in the same currency. Also related to another regulation relating to sales... without cover and certain aspects of credit derivatives. It refers to the restriction and prohibition of the conduct of transactions, the implementation without coverage of the so-called in a jargon called short-selling and credit derivatives transactions based on the formation of non-fulfilment status, so-called ‘settlement’. credit... thus establishing greater control over these risky transactions. The Regulation introduces the obligation of transparent regulatory reporting so that regulators within the EU can monitor and possibly investigate those cases of transactions that could lead to systemic risk. This part of the financial crisis that occurred in the U.S. is the most created because of these derivatives, so it's the shor sell of something you don't have. And in this part precisely because of the encouraged speculation with these EU financial statements, it now restricts the trading of such derivatives and wants in a clear and transparent way to report to the regulator when trading such forms of financial product. Also when we talk about a second regulation and we also talk about OTC derivatives means financial statements that are not traded on a regulated financial market such as the stock market but are called OTC or over the counter market by the counter. It was also adopted in order to prevent risk, given that the OTC derivative contract is characterised by lower transparency as it is concluded under the conditions agreed by the parties outside the regulated market and in which the data is available to the self-contracted parties participating in the transaction. All... financial crises cause an increase in the instability of the financial market. Therefore, this Regulation provides that settlements of contracts with OTC derivatives must be made through the central other contracted parties, and data on such contracts shall be collected in the trade repositories. This reduces risks and increases transparency in these relationships. So all of these regulations concern strengthening the transparency of business, financial statements which are one of the main reasons for this global financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37193	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37194	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia shall adopt this law as part of the alignment of the negotiating chapter No. 4 So this is about freedom of movement of capital. This legislative proposal implements two regulations. One is a regulation on cross-border payments in the EU, and another is a regulation that sets out technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro. These Regulations define an integrated payment market for electronic payments in euro without distinction whether it is national or cross-border payments. Common payment instruments, common payment standards and, of course, integrated payment transaction processing are also established, and all of this is to ensure that the highest degree of payment transaction security or payment turnover and insurance is made available to citizens in terms of costs. The law lays down the competent authorities for the exercise of supervision in the provision of payment services. In Croatia it is the CNB and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Financial Inspectorate. It also regulates the extrajudicial settlement of disputes between payment service providers and users, with a view to setting up a Centre for the Peace of the HGK as a body for the implementation of the standstill procedure but a procedure for the settlement can also be opened before other competent authorities. The legislative proposal also prescribes infringements and penalties for payment service providers by determining that the first-degree infringement procedure is conducted by the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Inspectorate. The most important issue of this law, of course, and of all others, is which benefits can Croatian citizens expect from implementing these two regulations or their implementation into national legislation? So citizens can expect to simplify cross-border payments from 1 July or from the moment Croatia becomes a formal member of the EU. Citizens can expect greater efficiency and transparency of payment instruments and of course payment transactions. Citizens can expect that conditions will be created to strengthen competition in payment services and to enable innovations in payments to be applied in order to reduce payment transaction costs, in one word to make payment traffic cheaper and more accessible. The SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37195	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. Therefore, another law harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union. And so in this law, there's practically nothing to argue about. It is clear that certain things are going through banks, so the only controller that can be is the Croatian National Bank because it is responsible for banks and financial inspectorate who oversees international and financial transactions. However, what I am concerned about and where I want to ask you a question as a proposing, given the uneven payment turnover in the European Union, are practically the same rules. Now how are some things going to get even that aren't the same, that are different. So we can define cross-border... However, in this law there are therefore clearly defined concepts and all these are beautifully transferred, the competent authority, are also defined by the regulations of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this is said wonderfully and wonderfully, however, many members of the European Union have different ways and payment traffic compared to what we have in Croatia. And maybe now all the thinking that it would be great if we had paid traffic in the European Union as it was in the former SDK or ZAP, so we had one institution that would run payment traffic uniquely at European Union level, where various financial institutions would have used it and that's just another indicator of how I thought so and 11 years ago, the law could be seen when it went in 2002 The amendment of the Law on Payments, when I was already clearly warning that payment traffic was being given to banks and practically it was necessary to shut down FINA, ZAP or as it had not already been called in the meantime proved correct. Because many of the troubles that have taken place and the state in the inability to collect their claims and also taxpayers are due to the fact that certain institutions were the first to worry about their collection and to protect their claims, then something else was yet to go. And later when the state sharpened the criteria, then in principle, what's going on began to happen. And I want to say here completely the fact, aware of what I'm going to say that it can cause certain and disdain in some, however, if we hadn't changed the Law on Payments, that it remained in FINA or ZAP probably today Croatia would not have so many outstanding claims today. For the simple reason that when you have bread, you have a knife, then basically no one can escape to pay for what they have to pay the state, which they have to pay for someone else. But we gave it to someone else. We've left 5,000 ZAP workers alone, thank God today Finna has consolidated and functioned. And I think that, even then, the foreign exchange payments were regulated specifically. They were addressed to FINA and they went over, actually to ZAP, and they went through business banks. So this is all nice and wonderful if everything is nice and wonderful, what if problems arise, how to intervene there, what to do. So it's just like this, one thought and thinking because unfortunately in these European Union directives, when you look at it, it's all put in that way if it all works perfectly. However, we are a state, a people and entrepreneurs who we like to improvise very often, and then the things that happen to us happen to us. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these three draft laws with a clear concern that one law will operate in a system of 28 Laws on Payments which are not unique and which are different. Although our banking sector is part of a major banking sector in Europe, it may guarantee that certain things will be going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37197	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37198	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU rules in the field of payment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 307. We have amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1 to Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37199	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37200	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Article 7
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37201	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt the amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37202	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, the Law on the implementation of the EU rules in the area of payment transport in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37223	We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the European Union Customs Regulations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 310; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want an extra one? Here you are, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, even though I haven't just answered my closing statement, I have to say I agree with my colleague Shucker about FINA and payment traffic. And that was something that was well organized in the Republic of Croatia and that was a good product of the Republic of Croatia but simply here, unfortunately, we are now in... problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be much simpler if FINA had its own, that it could develop in this respect and as a single market product. However, today, in front of us, the draft Law on the implementation of the European Union customs rules, although the large amount of responsibility for the implementation of customs policy has been transferred to the institutions of the European Union, there are certain areas where Member States can adopt national customs regulations. The proposed law aims to regulate in more detail the implementation of certain implementations of the Community Customs Code and other directly applicable customs rules of the European Union which confer powers on Member States to regulate certain areas by national regulations, such as those of the Member States. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Those areas which are not regulated by the customs legislation of the European Union shall be laid down. So this is the same law that applies to, we must adopt a directive, that is, the rules of the European Union, because we are now in the unique customs territory of the European Union and, in accordance with all of this, we should actually observe this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37225	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs, but we don't have any reports. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37226	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, so this is one law that is as it is and in principle it cannot be any different. But I'm just asking myself one question here since we had a discussion about VAT this morning and then we said that free zones are being abolished, and here is Article 42 says users of a free zone or a free warehouse. And if the VAT Act says that more about VAT free customs zones cannot exist then I wonder if these users of the free zone or the free warehouse are one new termology or something new than free customs zones. And there's also part 5 here, which is very interesting to me, and it's a customs debt and a release from paying the customs debt. I am interested in whether customs are in line with the tax administration finally consolidated the customs debt and whether it will begin to be settled because here they are very interesting, here it is obviously about the obligation of customs, so... paying the customs debt does not imply that it is some kind of debt that occurred so someone did not settle it in time but it is probably a determined customs duty to be paid within the legal time limit. Or maybe I'm wrong. So this is about customs, it's the termology that's different, and that's why I say this new terminology in harmonising Croatia's legislation with the legislation of the European Union disagrees with the completely different terms that we had in our legislation in the past. And we here now when we talk about Part 5 because this law is all divided into 10 parts, talking about customs debt and getting rid of paying customs. So the customs debt under some kind of Croatian terminology is so I say in some kind of valid thinking in the financial life of the public finances of the Republic of Croatia something that is not settled in time and the obligation to pay for it is recorded. However, reading this bill here under customs debt and release from customs is defined something that has been found to have to pay as customs, right. So, because also the delay in paying the customs debt, so if it's changed, if it's a newly established obligation, then it only makes a different sense, but then I think it's necessary to explain it in the light of the law because I'm saying, it's a terminology that in the past times meant something completely different. So these are the financial parts, and this is all the rest the technical part of which, as well as customs duties, should be treated, so from destruction of goods to collection, sale and free allocation of goods, therefore the goods that have been seized. The HDZ Club will support this law, the proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Union, with a final proposal for a law, so we propose to the legislator to explain in the light of the law these few concepts which are in a certain way in conflict with the old law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37227	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37228	Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of EU customs rules, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 310. The debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia became an integral part of the final draft law because they were submitted within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? The result? I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the Law on the implementation of EU customs rules was adopted in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37229	We move to - Final bill on the collection of the tax debt of natural persons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 341 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received their reports. On behalf of the proposer Deputy Minister of Finance, colleague Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So there is a law before you that does not refer to harmonisation related to European Union regulations, which refers to continuing the work of the Ministry of Finance where it is actually trying to facilitate the payment of tax obligations to the Republic of Croatia in this difficult economic situation. As you know, last year the Government of the Republic of Croatia was mostly focused on reprogramming tax debts. So we had two laws on tax debt reprogramming where the first one was somewhere in February, then somewhere in the summer, two laws on tax debt reprogramme for entrepreneurs where somewhere around 3 billion kuna entered a tax debt programme where it actually extended from 30 to 36 months. This was the first measure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to suppress, let's say, the relief of the difficult economic situation until the second measure was actually the Financial Business Act where we said that we would consolidate all these debts that are now in the reprogrammes and those who could not come into the reprogrammes. Also, as you know, last year a Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions was passed where it is also part of the consolidation of debt relating to health care and this is now.... So all the time it was focused... so on the economy, twice the reprograms, the Financial Business Act, the Health Rehabilitation, so it was all laws that came from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consolidate the economy, means to help the economy. And this is still before us today a law relating to citizens who are natural persons, who have certain tax debts to the Ministry of Finance where, in fact, from certain databases, the Ministry of Finance actually tried to determine the meaning of which amounts are involved and in this law see in the explanation that it is one amount of $12.7 billion. Yes, 12.7 billion kuna where about 5 billion kuna refers to the principal and about more than 7 billion kuna refers to interest. The very ratio of the principal and interest indicates that it's actually about the old debts. So, for a long time, let's not say from the draft state. So all these debts that were generated on various grounds are actually covered in that part. They would divide into one part of the citizens, meaning citizens as natural persons where they were mostly left if there was a debt based on real estate tax for example, so when traffic took place, the payment of real estate taxes was not made, meaning that part of the debt. For example, debt for road motor vehicles and other debts means where citizens are as natural persons as well as for the annual application means they can remain a certain part of the obligation to the Ministry of Finance. The other part of the citizens who are here are citizens who used to have crafts. So they had a trade and they were created certain, they had certain tax debts and later when they actually closed the trade that part of the tax debt remained on them as citizens, as natural persons and that is here let's say that most of these debts of the 12.7 billion kuna, meaning more somewhere around 8 billion refer to those citizens who were craftsmen and sometimes citizens as natural persons and on them remained a certain debt mainly to pension and health where one part also applies to VAT. Also, it means the pension first pillar is when you go to reprogramme such a debt, or when you go to write off that part of the debt is very dangerous because it is about craftsmen who have not been paying certain contributions to their employees. And if that part goes into write-off then it can become a problem of non-accounting in retirement, and it's a huge problem for those people who haven't actually been paid off and have not been retired. This is where the Government of the Republic of Croatia tries and that part of the debt to try to consolidate to pay the principal in that part where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is actually going to try for that part of the interest either to write off or to give that part of the debt, means that it is reprogrammed up to 60 months, 36 to 60 months, that it is actually going to try that part of the debt, however, to give certain reliefs to citizens who have found themselves in certain problems and are not actually solved to try to execute them. So, this is another measure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a difficult economic situation which is now turned to citizens as individuals who have difficulty in carrying out their tax obligations, to now try to regulate them and ultimately to, in fact, not actually to function only in the way of charges, but to make that part of the burden more evenly arranged, especially payments. Because as you know, there's a big minus in the pension system. So 36 billion kunas are actually annual pension payments from the Republic of Croatia's budget, payments are 18 billion, and there's one big minus. And if you see that these craftsmen who haven't made payments, and this is about 8 billion kuna payments in this pension system, we simply have one of those imbalances, and that's why we actually have a huge tax burden and tax burden on VAT and others, because just as low pensions and a low pension system have to be financed because of a large number of pensioners. But unfortunately, as we can see from the other side of the years, certain obligations by craftsmen have not been fulfilled and we are actually giving the opportunity to in particular in that part of the pension, to try to find certain means to get in that part and try and pay the pensions because these are the pensions of the workers that are actually earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37231	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. The first one is on behalf of the HDZ club colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37232	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance. So, one very interesting law, and when a man has to be very careful about what he's going to say, you have something that's basic about taxes, which is the principle of justice, the principle of equality. And when all of us who have dealt with finance, then we must forget politics, the daily-political needs, and we must stick to the principles of justice and the principles of equality. Because if we're not gonna talk like that, then we better not be dealing with this job that we're doing. So when you look here at the reasons of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I fully understand my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, however, there are many, many things that are lacking in the reasoning of this law that a man might discuss them in a completely different, more quality way. So it's 616046 taxpayers. Look, if Croatia currently has 90000 craftsmen, 90 thousand craftsmen, then it means it is very, very few craftsmen compared to the total number that stopped the activity and the rest are due. So in order to stick to what I have said to the principles of equality, the principles of justice and at the end of the principle of tax capacity and tax capacity, then what is lacking in this law is the structure of this debt. So, by types of tax. Why? Because someone remembered that in 1.7.2002, so it's good, so the man serves memory, collection of pension and health care how to say this from the social sector then craftsmen had their Croatian Pension Insurance Office. We had something that we've all forgotten a little bit, and that's paying for the farmers' pension insurance. While he was taxing on catastrian income until '95. And then it went to one another, and then it was ignored, and if this 12 billion and 700 debt had been put together, then I'd probably have a completely different conversation today about this bill. Why? Because since 1.07.2002, revenues from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute have become an integral part of the revenue side of the state budget, as well as the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute have become an integral part of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The IRS records were taken over by the IRS at the time. The Ministry of Finance was quite messy, quite uncomplicated and was practically registered as it was registered, and in the end when you look at the relationship between the principal and the interest then it will become clear to you that these debts are very, very old and most of them. Second, what was the basis for determining these tax obligations? It's also missing here in this bill of law. And in the end, we had to sort of, if we were to talk about it for at least 10 years, we had to get that debt out by age to see how he grew up. Why? Because when you look at the IRS report, then you'll see except for the 2009 crisis, the charge was 97 or 98%. However, 1% of the tax revenues not charged and reported when they amount to 100, 105 or 110 billion kuna is a billion and 100 million kunas to you. When you take just 10 years of it, how much does that debt increase? Because look, even now the situation in the IRS isn't much different, there's no perpetum mobile, it's impossible to practically charge for everything that's being determined. And what we think in the HDZ Club and think it isn't, which is the principle of justice, it's not fair if someone with a basis for non-payment of contributions, non-payment of tax payments has acquired some kind of property. Whether it's cars, whether it's ships, whether it's real estate, land houses, etc., it can't be the subject of this kind of writing. And that's why the OIB was introduced just because they gave a personal, property ID to each of us. And I can't be in debt to the state of 100, 200, 200, 500, million kuna, and at the same time have property of several tens of millions of kunas. I can't get into this category then. I mean, I speak figuratively. And that's the problem with this law. So we put everything in the same basket in six thousand taxpayers. So we put all the eggs in the same basket. Maybe there's 5, 10, 15% I won't say at all, our fellow citizens who came practically to the edge of existence, they and their family, just something happened to business, they had nothing to do and they needed help. To them, this debt today may be an obstacle to the opening of some new entrepreneurial activity, to moving with something new to life or anything. But it's 5, 10 or 15%, not anymore. But this 85% has some kind of property. And now look, colleagues and colleagues, what's going on. On the one hand, we have an entrepreneur, so look around you and you'll see that you've got your neighbors and friends who've been selling cars for the last three or four years, selling boats, selling cottages to keep their crafts and their businesses from falling out, they'll forgive me for the look of a fool. So, they got rid of their assets to settle the obligation, and at the same time someone opened up a new company or opened up someone else, closed the crafts, opened up a company has property, and now someone will remember to write it off. Take a look at a little list of these 606,000 debtors, and you'll see that there are characters who owe several million kunas. So someone who has come into a position to owe the state several million kunas has some kind of property. And now one elemental question is who gave us the right in the Parliament to make a decision to write off interest, to give it a 60-month review criteria, for example, for bigger debtors at an interest rate of 4.5%? And at the same time, you have an entrepreneur who works, who employs 30, 40 people because of some bad situation in the company, the company might exist, he can't even go crazy with this kind of help. Is that fair? It's not. And that's why this law isn't fair, that's why this law isn't good. If we want to talk about the social category, then those who fall into the social category should be pulled out of this and should be helped in a clear way, and all those who have any property simply need to see what can be charged and what cannot be charged. Because this is how, since something similar happened in 2002 when the Law on Achieveds was passed, and the outstanding claims apparently had no effect because a large part of these claims and debts were covered by that law but was not regulated, it is obvious that when a political nomenclature comes to power it always repeats the story in a very similar way. And then, logically, there will be one part of those who will say I will not pay taxes, why would I pay and tomorrow someone will come to power to write off my interest and will put me in a position that this tax is far easier to pay than someone else. It would be wonderful and wonderful if 12 billion and 700 million kuna were erased from the balance sheet of the state. If these 5 billion and 700 million interest were written off, the rest of the principal, most of the principal, programmed, and I know that fellow Lalovec would be far better off looking at that balance. But I repeat, what I said at the beginning, that principle of justice, equality and tax capacity. Did we follow this law when we proposed it? We didn't. Because colleagues and colleagues of 600 thousand of those who are on the list of these debts you have really people who are poor and who can't pay for it, but I repeat, what I once said, there are those who have the same property and who can hardly settle their obligations. Many have closed their trades, left their debts, and today they have successful businesses, and as legal persons, they function. But I repeat, that's why the OIB was introduced and all this data needs to be matched so that this law can be talked about. Why? Well, because the law is very short and that's what I'm really afraid of most when I look at this law. It states in Article 3(2): "The natural persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered as natural persons who do not participate in the transport of services and the market and natural persons who have ceased to carry out their crafts activity on 31 December 2012. "years." So do you really think by defining these individuals, they've been able to beat 7 billion majors in the past 10, 12 years? So these people must have some kind of property, and with that property they've been working really hard, they've gotten it to come and do it. But what is very interesting is Article 5(2): "Reprogramming the principal, tax debt according to this law is approved in monthly meals depending on the amount of the tax debt." So the one with 500,000 kuna gets 60 months to write off the interest. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, many active craftsmen and entrepreneurs would be overjoyed that at this point, the tax liability, the pension and health obligations that are greater than 500 000 and have been blocked so that at this point someone can, under such conditions, reprogramme the loan, and even at a slightly higher interest rate, be overjoyed. And now, look, we who can survive, who can work, who employ dozens of people don't give this opportunity, and those who, so many of them made certain marifetteluks, have avoided paying taxes, are dealing with it today in another way, by some other activity, we give it to them. And that is something that is simply not good and something that simply cannot be supported no matter how nice and fair this law sounds, however, it is primarily extremely unfair, unfair to those who have been honest, to themselves, to their family, to their employees and to the state. So those who have lived in some kind of postulates of righteousness we put a knife in their backs to say so, and to those who have avoided paying in every possible and impossible way we have set them up. So, by passing this law, we write off 5 billion and 700 million interest. We leave 7 billion majors and the question is how much these principals will be able to charge and basically what we're going to get with it, whether a large number of people in the tax administration will again be covered by some law that doesn't make sense and that's past the profession, past the rules, besides what instead of dealing with daily current problems and preventing these debts from happening in the future. And to finish, the HDZ club simply can't support this law. Both colleagues and colleagues, this is the sin of all political nomenclatures depending on the stage in which they were in power, and this is something you can't say that the tax administration didn't try to charge. And what I'm going to say is, from this I'm responsibly standing, all of these two times a year have been warned that they have a debt greater than 500 kuna and 99.999% of them are blocked by a jury account. So the tax administration tried to charge for it but the instruments she had failed, probably even the amendments to this law won't do anything. And that's why, out of respect for those who sold their assets to settle their obligations to the state and to business partners, we can't support a law that says, "You who didn't want to do this were right."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37233	Thank you. Replica Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37234	Thank you, Vice President. You've devoted most of your debates to saying that this law is not fair. In your opinion, then, it is not fair for tax debts to be written off to those who have certain assets. I agree with you, but the data provided under this law states that out of the 13 billion tax debt 2/3, which is therefore more than 8 billion kuna wastes on unpaid insurance contributions, the most for pension insurance. I'm asking you if it's possible for you to think that the bonds refused to pay those liabilities, so for retirement insurance first of all, they could have, and they didn't, I really can't believe it. So I think the largest number of taxpayers simply couldn't pay those obligations and that we were obliged to help them. After all, you're wondering if it's okay to write down 5 billion kuna from the tax aspect? I think even that's okay, write off 5 billion kuna and charge 7 billion. This way, if we don't resort to the measures in this law, we won't actually charge for anything, and I still don't think it's acceptable from that very tax aspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37235	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37236	Well, my colleague Jelish, that you listened very carefully when I was speaking, just the crucial thing that this law lacks is the structure of this debt. And it's not at all controversial, and I said that about the 5, 10, 15% who can't pay their obligations to write off their entire principal and interest. However, the problem is those who have assets, which on behalf of these outstanding liabilities to the state, have come to that property, and probably one property and acquired it. And then I pulled the parallel that today you have people selling property to settle their obligations and that's what's unfair and incorrect. Because the other thing is if someone, and in a craftsman, given that the VAT liability occurs at the time you charge for something, you don't even have a VAT obligation if you haven't charged. It certainly did not give rise to a VAT debt. But I also mentioned those who were founded on the grounds of agriculture on pension insurance, the majority of the debt will not be charged even though most of these people have some property, because it is not logical that after the death of those people someone inherits their property, and the debt to the state that is linked to that property, because with the basis of that property someone has achieved pension insurance. Likewise, most of these craftsmen, at least half of them opened up a company, and today they are doing business in the company. So we need to see who created the obligation and where is he who created the obligation today and then we can talk about this, and without presenting it, putting it in the same basket is all something that simply can't go. So when you look at the principle and constitutionality, it's a question of whether a law like this can pass. Because I remember when the crisis tax was introduced, then the question was whether they were all treated equally. They're not all treated equally here. I repeat, no one who has several million debts, he's not made out of anything. So this guy's got some kind of property, he's dealing with something, and he's asking himself where this property ended up. So that's what this is about. It's not a problem for anyone who owes five or ten or fifteen thousand kuna. These countries will be easy to solve, but these others are dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37237	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37238	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the CNS, something about the principle of justice. In his presentation, Shuker expressed one illogicality that would be singled out and if there were, and only she existed, if we singled out from the context, the general context in Croatian society and the context of opportunities that have existed in these areas for years then I could even agree with my colleague Schuker. But of course the world isn't black and especially the one we live in. If we are to appeal to the principle of justice, then when we talk about the terms of business of Croatian craftsmen, we should ask the question of how just it is that they guaranteed, guaranteed their property for their business, and the directors of companies and the owners of companies do not guarantee their assets for the results of their business and the consequences arised unless this business is well. So I can even refer to one example that I won't say my name but my colleague Shucker and I know him very well, let's say he has a company and he has conditions in the tax system that allowed him to fill a full garage of expensive cars and that according to the RS tax system, it is legally treated as a relief. Cars on the company and those very high-value cars, my colleague Shucker, I'm putting out, so you can replicate later. No, I'm saying I just mentioned your appearance, I refer to your debate. The interest of 18% as a tight interest which has been subject to for years by Croatian craftsmen today would in any case, in any conversation such informally, most of us advocates would be treated as green interest. Of course it's not like that. There are certain legalitys in the financial world and legality that have been referred to by the state apparatus and by the proposer of previous legislation that interest will always be slightly higher than the interest offered by the banks, and this unfortunate tightening interest has fallen towards today's 12% for Croatian craftsmen. How just is it in the context of the legalization of illegal construction today, how fair this society is to people who built houses, paying for a municipal contribution in full, we have witnessed today in the practice that some of my colleagues have initiated, and unfortunately we have accepted in Sibenik at the end of the last, the practice that the rate of municipal contribution is now descending by two, three times more than the one that reigned until one year or until two years ago. How fair it was for citizens who paid 120, 110, 150 before the 2010 regulation for the calculation of the municipal contribution. Bringn about a limit of 135 kuna per meter of cubic building. It's full of irregularities and injustices in this society. In the context of this debate, the great irregularity and irregularity is that Croatian craftsmen guaranteed all that property and often sold their personal property or were even seized for tax debts and the system was so effective, in the previous years that if they looked at the structure of a single Croatian craftsman's debt, they would find in a very large number of cases that the principal when you squeezed the bot of what we said in Dalmatia, perhaps thirty or forty percent of the total amount, and that 60 or 70 percent during the years of non-functioning of the rule of law, from these or those reasons, was the conjunction of the inefficient state apparatus that allowed someone ten years, 8 years, 7 years as a craft of debt, with a clear perspective that the following laws that were in force, were in force, someone seized personal property, and on the other side we have witnessed those situations in which the company, etc. It's hard to talk about justice, but as we have reached out to the legalisation mechanism of illegally built objects in order to get the basic assumptions for bringing this society in order, I'm afraid, regardless of what part of which my colleague Schucker is rightly required here, we have to close our eyes on the principle of full justice and perhaps accept the principle of common sense and practicality, so mention 5 and a few billion kuna interest which we would never be honest enough to pay off in order to eventually create conditions, possibly. In order to create conditions for the possible payment of part of the debt capital, and very likely if we speak honestly in this Croatian home, the Ministry of Finance would be happy to charge me 7 billion remaining capitals 3 and a half. I'm convinced that somewhere on the side of the finance minister would sign it tomorrow. Unfortunately, that's the situation. This measure, which is adopted, is a final measure that the CNS supports from the principle of reality. We do not claim that it is absolutely correct and just but unfortunately reflects our reality. For these reasons, the HNS club will support this law. We'll vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37239	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37240	A colleague of Baranovic would do well to mention things if you stick to what you have and in your own party, but it is not good to put in the same basket those who settle all their tax obligations with those who have failed to comply with their obligations. But when we talk about this law, I said in my debate that a similar law was in 2002, it was also high expectations, the Law on Incomes and Not Charged Claims, but unfortunately, the effect was almost so expensive, although it was lost a year of long settlements and everything was not charged by any 400,500 million kunas of 24 billion that were then said to stand in that law. Today is exactly the same story, and when I was talking about this, I was talking about it based on facts, which is that many who are on the list of these debtors have the same property from which this debt can be settled, only the government has to make a decision to go for the severance of real estate and other things. But I say go blame someone for something you're wrong or someone's using legal options it's the same story that these people who are going to be based on this law because you're going to be this law the way you vote, tomorrow someone's attacking that someone signed them or didn't write off interest because if the law didn't let them do it, they wouldn't be able to do it. But I repeat, when you call it, it would be convenient for you to turn around because of the cases you've been talking about you have in your party as much as you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37241	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37242	My colleague Shuker and I are one of the major parliamentary parties and you are certainly right when you say there are such cases with us, I agree with you here, but what I do not agree with is that the case has been repeated since a few days ago when my presentation was interpreted as protecting the rights of MPs, and I was talking about employees in the Croatian Parliament. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, I repeated the case when it was said. In my presentation, I cited an example of the use of legal opportunities, and I accused no one of anything. Do not impute words that I have not spoken or thought that I did not have in my head, I merely pointed out that the principle of righteousness, unfortunately, cannot be fully applied in the society in which we live. As for the seizing of property to Croatian craftsmen, this mechanism existed at a time when you were Minister of Finance, so it might be interesting to hear an explanation why you did not use it massively for the payment of debts. And also when it comes to Croatian craftsmen, I stand by the fact that it is not at all fair for them all these years and today to be charged with guaranteeing assets for the business and settlement of their obligations, and the directors of companies never had such obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37243	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37244	In your debate, you said that this result of 13 billion kuna is the result of a government failure and that the principle of justice should be replaced by the principle of common sense and practicality. Are you aware of what you're saying? It means that instead of justice in the Republic of Croatia, we are now introducing a principle of practicality as to how citizens can gain confidence in that and such a state where justice is no longer important, it is only important to be practical and reasonable. And that's what I'm saying because we currently have 254,000 blocked accounts of Croatian citizens who owe 18 billion kuna. At the end of 2011, there were 210 thousand who owed 13 billion kuna. So in a year and a half, the new 44 thousand and 5 billion more. These people are under wraps. How can they interpret a law like this when money is taken daily? They were then paid off as a public company such as Croatia's Waters not to charge them, let's say, in their 2006 claims, 7th, 8th year because their tight interest was 18, 16, 14, 12 so they make a lot more money on it than to invest money in a bank and wait for times like this when we will be able to practice the principle of practicality and how you said reason to make it nice or to respect justice. I don't think these 250 grand are looking kindly at this because they're going to have to keep paying their debts the way they got them in those court proceedings. But the rest of them who haven't paid the IRS are now going to be in three grand's debt, so we're going to charge it somehow for 36 months. You will not charge for it, neither will you, nor will you, but we have lost what is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37245	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37246	I think that there is a difference between justice and justice. And when it comes to this particular case and the case that you have listed other citizens who are debtors, my approach to life is to help those who can be helped and to give opportunity to those who can be given a chance. In this particular case, it's not about the write-off of the principal. It's about the write-off of interest on interest, and it's about the write-off in one piece, not all of them. Of course, there are those that my colleague Shuker mentioned who have perfidably abused certain things and holes in the laws of a certain weakness of the system in order to possibly profit from it. But as a man who ran the Sibenik craftsmen, one of the people who ran them for a few years, I know the craft myself for 20 years, and a lot of cases where people were simply because of difficulties in business and life, and a system that didn't prevent such things in time and stopped their business while they were still in time experiencing personal disasters, so in some cases they took possessions. So I see this law as an attempt to give a part of people a chance to settle debts in their lives. If that's the problem, then I'll go back to the question of legalizing illegal construction. Because we had a situation that people had illegally built apartments, that they were illegally unregistered, of course, on such facilities they couldn't even register. They did their work on black, they didn't pay any taxes. They didn't pay any communal contributions. A hundred yards away someone worked hard and paid 150 or 130 or 120 kuna per meter by cubic meter. People paid tens, hundreds of thousands of kunas of communal contributions. To testify today that the one who was a maniac next to them, which is the necessity that you started with the Law on Legalization, and in the units of local self-government, certain local self-government leaders have prescribed. In particular, my colleague was the first to do so in Sibenik County I think she did, a colleague from Vodice, to lower the level of communal contribution. As fair and fair as it is, then we did it in Sibenik, so let's not wash our hands like Pontius Pilate, absolutely the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37247	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37248	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Baranovic, we can discuss both law and justice, but you will have the opportunity to say something about legalization here, because in that part of it I have noticed your remark about justice as to why this Law on dealing with illegally built objects or those legalization. Well, absolute justice is at stake, but another problem is there's another one, which is fear. Especially about our fear, fear, fear, you've heard me very well, fear mostly of our rural and poor parts where our citizens experience this law as a law of destruction. It's simply a law of destruction because they're not materially capable, they're not able to realize it. The second thing, the state of the garter and the catastra, of course, makes it more difficult for them. But it is particularly questionable, the justice of legalization of the cellar in our parts of northwestern Croatia where the Klets or Gorica are one way of life traditionally. And there is now a legalization where our citizens, the honorable pensioners who have been saving for years, filed a constitutional suit. The constitutional suit because they are simply exposed to immensely high costs and our neighbours Hungarians in the surrounding countries have given it a legalisation for 200 euros. And with us, they have to pay for all that, we know how much it costs. And in that part is surely righteousness on the great test. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37249	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37250	A respected colleague, if you ask me, but in democracy, of course, it is impossible because this is not a dictatorship, then all the municipal contributions in Croatia would be charged on a unique scale. All, and it would not happen that the basements would be accounted for either one or not, that agricultural facilities are accounted for by another, in one municipality, agricultural facilities by another in the other municipality, that on the Adriatic, one house on the Adriatic is paid at one location five times less than houses on another location maybe a kilometer or two. These are the absurdities of the functioning of our society and this is unfortunately the consequence of bringing it down to a local level where there is autonomy in a decision that has its advantages, so that is why we have established it in this society, but as you can see it has its own shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37251	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37252	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I would like to say about this final bill on the collection of the tax debt of natural persons as follows. Thus, this Law may have had or have a noble intention to help those who have fallen into difficulty not paying their tax debt and have no means and from where to pay it and then to help them write off part of that debt. However, if this was a noble intention, the performance is not good and it is unfair. It is unfair and the Law on Legalisation because one citizen paid for everything, one will pass cheaper and will not have to pay, but by doing so, the state acknowledged its infirmity and its inadequacy throughout the years when it allowed illegal construction and did not respond in time. And she only had that way to solve it because it was estimated that neither could nor would it be on the other side would the new injustices be if all these objects collapsed. Equally unfair is the law and from the very HNS Club that supported this law we have heard that there really are those who use holes in the law in a perfiduous way. Well, then there's no good law that allows these holes or that actually doesn't say anything and does no distinction between those who are really in a difficult position and have no way to pay and those who simply don't want to and avoid paying their tax and now they'll come into a situation that they can actually pay less than all honest citizens who pay their dues. Why? Because by this law, this law defines tax debt within the meaning of this Act has reached the unpaid or unpaid tax debt of a natural person or craftsman. So, it's not the meaning of this Law that if the tax debt was made, it's tried to collect, there's no charge, there's no charge, there's no property, there's no dwarf in front of the house parked, and then it's kind of stimulated to find the means to write off some part of it, so that the tax debt is paid anyway. He's only talking about unpaid tax debt regardless of why he didn't pay the debt. And he who avoided it could have paid and avoided payment, only had to apply and he would have his interest and tax debt reprogrammed. It's just not, it's not fair. They are one of those craftsmen, as we have heard, who are indeed there and who are really in a difficult situation and who have closed their trades long ago and often because of the neglect of state supervisory authorities or the neglect of the tax administration, they didn't even know that they had a debt piled up somewhere with that tax-stricken interest, so they discovered it only when their account was blocked or when they sat down or when it started to work. Now, these are the people who need help, but then it has to be clear to this law and said it's these people. It was on the Legislative Committee today, and I've been explained that this is a law of limited duration. I do not see it in this law because this law says that natural persons to whom they will be applied within the meaning of this law are considered natural persons who do not participate in the transport of goods and services and natural persons who have ceased their crafts activities until 31 December 2012. Now, compared to craftsmen, it might be something limited, those who closed the crafts by the end of 2012, but to other individuals there is absolutely no limit to the duration of this law. Whenever a person who has not paid the tax is asked to write off her interest and wants a reprogramme, she can do it. It does not say absolutely anywhere in this law until when it is valid, it writes only when it enters into force, on the first day of its publication in the National Journal, but as long as this law does not say, therefore it is no limited duration but is actually offered to people who will not settle their tax obligations that they hold out for such a year that they will then be written off interest. I don't see any reason why the IRS wouldn't try to charge for what's on top of what can be charged, so that someone can't drive an expensive car, a luxury life, and not pay their taxes. And compared to those cases that we were talking about, which we had the opportunity to see where people get kicked out of their houses and apartments for some old tax debt, here's when I asked the Prime Minister in one current hour if he was going to propose changes to the executive law to exempt from the exercise except for one part of the salary, except for the necessary means of living movement, etc., to exclude the necessary living space, so that living space that is necessary for families or the citizen to live in order not to become homeless. The prime minister was quite rude to me if I knew what possible abuses were, this and that I didn't understand anything, but here's a recent report with his advisers the president of the state Mr. Josipovic carried out with the wise heads the same proposal to the government, and I expect now what Prime Minister Milanovic will answer to the president of the state, is this such a stupid proposal to amend the executive law in a way that the executions exclude the properties necessary for housing. And that way, the first thing to do would be to try to charge through what is charged, and then when it is seen that there really is no funds, then these debts could be reprogrammed with the write-off of interest. This is how it's going to happen that those who don't, who don't have objectively, won't have any money when they're cut off, or when they're reprogrammed because they're out of work, they don't have sources of funds, etc. But those wise men may not pay their taxes on purpose, have expensive cars, have a big house, don't pay their taxes, and then apply under that law so that they can now reprogramme it and get their interest cut off. And to repeat, since these provisions, which would make a distinction between those and determine who could not pay for objective reasons, who might not have known for years that there was some lagging tax debt for him, so by hanging in, he rose to large amounts, and who is he who is, in fact, out of a clean hanging or out of his own account or disrespect of the state, not paying it, and now he will come into a better position than an orderly citizen who pays his tax obligations. So I suggest to the government that you don't constantly increase the tax rate, so you're increasing taxes on one side, you're burdening the tax citizens more, and now you want to introduce VAT payments to the craftsmen at the expense of the bill, and not on charges like so far, so you're taxing them even more burden, you're announcing the introduction of new taxes on the one hand, and now who pays, pays. To burden him, who's crazy and pay well, the one who hasn't paid he's going to get relief for a while. But here's what I said, and it's like partial legalization, as well as the new Criminal Law actually capitulates the rule of law in which regular citizens regularly go worse than those who avoid their civic obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37253	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37254	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lovrin, in your debate, you've noticed this injustice again because it makes it seem like it's really easier to owe, like, a million kunas in this country than a thousand kunas. If you owe a million kunas no one can do anything to you, if you owe a thousand, then you are under the scissors of all possible institutions that will take these thousand kunas from you however they know and can and even on those thousand kunas take even more. I'm going back to those famous errands again. 250,000 people are in an unfair position like this. They have protected accounts and now they have to pay well both the principal and the tight interest, they also have to pay legal fees that are not small plus blocking and unblocking accounts etc. So let's say for one of the 3,000 kunas you collect 1,500 kunas of tight interest and plus all those tariffs, they take 2500 kunas nice on that debt. And let's say that this debt is to a public enterprise like the Croatian Waters, now we have a tax administration case so she wants to push her debt in a different way, and the same is the state and one is the state and the other is the state. Where's the justice? So the public firm is going to take a lawyer, so we're going to go to work, all right, especially with the public firm, because she's going to make more money than she put in a bank on tight interest, and lawyers are doing great. We can see for ourselves how many lawyers make on certain occasions from the tv tax and beyond, and here we say ok. Now you, if you owe 3000 kuna to some tax dollars on a road vehicle, and I know everything, you're going to apply, you're going to make a request, and we're going to give it to you for 36 months, so you're going to pay less interest, and you don't have to open an account on the FINA, and I guess as far as I understand it, you don't need to, and we're not gonna take your pension away from you like we're taking away your entire pensions. If the pensioner doesn't open the bill, then his entire pension is gone, so that month he's got nothing. I mean, and that's all because of how we heard it because the principle of justice is changing the principle of reason and practicality. That man doesn't believe! There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37255	The answer to the replica of Anna Loreen. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37256	Yes, my colleague, Boric, you've elaborated it nicely. That's what this is all about. And otherwise in the country, it's done and it's not settled. So every government body, every ministry works as a state in the country, works as its own house, and then it just depends on who it is and how much it owes. Someone will forgive him. He won't forgive anyone. And I therefore propose that we amend the Law of conduct and make it in one part fairer, then it will apply to all citizens and will apply to all debts to whom the citizen owed, whether Croatian waters, electricity or the Tax Administration will be protected in the same way. This way someone will forgive him. For example, the IRS will forgive him for interest and reprogramme him, cut his electricity, keep charging him for services he doesn't need. I don't know what you mentioned, Croatia's waters will cloud its debt, etc. etc. So here we propose some more systematic solutions that would be fairer and apply to all citizens equally. But here's what I'm thinking, maybe the proposings will still feel something and apply it to the thinking and the proposing of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37257	Thank you. The final word of the applicant's representative, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37258	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's listening to your debate, which mainly extended one principle, the principle of justice. I must say that I agree, or fully, when I agree with Mr. Shucker's exposure when it comes to the question of someone paying taxes, someone didn't pay taxes. I mean, I wouldn't go into a debate, a political debate about who's guilty. I simply believe that these debts that have been made in tax administration bases since the 1990s are above politics. It's something that shows that our system hasn't actually been established. And when we actually get away from the political debates, is this government guilty, because the other government for tax debts I think we're going to establish a much better and more transparent attitude towards citizens, to say that all taxes are mandatory and that in fact all citizens are what from those fundamental postulates that taxes have to be paid. Is if we're having these discussions about who's guilty, so the system just wasn't so established that the system I had to react to, so past... The possibility of political decisions means the system is not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this has actually shown us that the very work of the Tax Administration that we hope to also modernise through new information and new relations through the Control Strategy where we need to lay a new foundation in resolving the tax debt. You know when tax debt is resolved and when a tax inspector comes in 2013 and maybe when he comes to a company and when he starts combing his 2005 books and finds some irregularities and he's charged with such amounts and if he's in a particular business today, the question is whether this system that was set up means creating these debts is effective. So it's not effective. So, what we said is that through the IRS work strategy, we're going to have to completely separate it because it's about paying the income. They should be professional and it is about charging revenues for the state budget, and they should completely separate that part from politics because they play a completely different role in the functioning of the state. They play a completely different role in the functioning of the state, and as soon as you get these things, it's not good in the system that something is set up. What we're going to try to do through the tax administration surveillance strategy is try to separate that part, that when actually the inspectors are actually going out on the ground they can actually always watch the last one, not to say the last year, not to go away means 10 years back, to try to act advisoryly, not to go into that part with aggressive charges. Because all of these are just problems that when they come out like this, when you see one amount of 12.7 billion, you wonder again what the system was doing. So the system wasn't certainly well established. So I'm telling you, again, I'm stressing it needs to be depoliticalized and removed from the debate, because it's something that can actually endanger the functioning of the state in this part of tax. And finally this fundamental principle that you here have now set the principle of righteousness. I asked my colleagues, they just might not have been able to put tax debt in a row. I was looking at that part of the tax debt, and when I tell you that you have half a billion kuna of unpaid real estate tax, the question is how is it possible, how is it in that one country where you have one amount where when you're actually buying a certain property you should actually have the insolvency to pay in that particular part of the traffic and what Mr. Schuker said that this part was settled and per species and per half of the years eventually you would get work, i.e. the nelado and non-functioning of a whole system. We're actually the intensity was actually to try that part of the debt that exists to consolidate. I personally believe that if we paid, most of you the same person who paid a certain tax on real estate sales as a citizen when you bought your property, and someone didn't, and these databases show that you actually did not pay a certain part of it, then that's a problem that's much wider than political. The problem is much wider, the problem of the general functioning of the country. I would like us to actually set up such mechanisms in the future and then tell ourselves that we are successful as a society to set up such mechanisms that will not depend on which political party or not on the collection of tax revenues. Because it's something independent of the functioning of politics, it's something that has to work impeccably every day and people have to do their job. It's their job that's hard work, but they ensure the stability of the state. So this is one of the laws that is actually a law that, let's say in this part can cause some confusion and questions, but it's simply a contemplated state that I'm saying again from me you won't ever hear that I'm accusing anyone in this whole process. I believe that the system was not good, a system like all chains inside, and that the importance and importance of the state is the establishment of a system that will function independently of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37259	Thank you very much. Replica, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37260	Well, Mr. Lalovec, I don't know who you're talking to, we've been more debated and replicated, but I absolutely haven't politicized this law personally for a moment, nor have I said who's guilty, why is guilty, it's irrelevant. I was just saying, and I'm convinced that she was your intention when she proposed this law was actually not well articulated and stabilized in this text of the law. And why is she unfair? You're talking about old debts, I'd absolutely accept it, but it doesn't say anywhere that it's going to apply to debts like you just mentioned in '95, 2005, those you might not even know about, those people who shut down the crafts, and something else was going on with them, etc. That's not what this law says. He speaks only of the unpaid, or unpaid, tax debt. And he's not saying anywhere that it can't apply to a tax debt from 2012 that someone deliberately or out of a coma didn't want to pay and now they're going to come and say please write off my interest and reprogram my debt, and in fact it's not at all in a situation that he can't normally pay how it has to pay under tax law. That's what I'm talking about, there's no distinction in this legal text. And especially I absolutely agree with you that the system didn't work if someone could buy real estate, not pay their taxes. While the good system I don't know, which it was, if you remember during the former state of Yugoslavia when the real estate tax was 45% because it wanted to detimise people to traffic real estate. And you couldn't sign up for land books before you brought in a tax check. It had another bad consequence that no one had recorded traffic to real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37261	Thank you very much. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37262	Thank you. Well, I didn't answer to you for the part where I was talking, but in my debate, I said that these are some things where when we're actually discussing this difficult problem and how to solve it, in fact, that it's not who left it, so I've been trying all along, I haven't told you or anyone here, so simply as a system, there was no functioning. And what you were saying certainly whether it applies to 2012 or 1995 as well as to the debt reprogrammes that we had to businesses was not the same criteria whether in that part it tried, whether it was for the 2005 or 2008 debt or when we talk about the consolidation of the economy when there are certain debts not coming in now, we didn't say we weren't going to settle that debt from '95, and we're going to settle it from 2008. It is difficult in this part to distinguish, but certainly that colleagues in the Tax Administration will certainly make sure that in fact this part of justice in this part of justice that you said is, which we all have actually noticed is an injustice, that actually, when the criteria are through payments, they will actually make sure that those who have a certain portion of the property and where this system that operates through the OIB system actually won't be allowed to actually be those who have been on the side all along. But again I'm saying in the end the system didn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37263	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37264	Thank you very much. Well, Your Honor, I just wanted to ask you how your famous pillar of shame works. To prove that you're politicizing, it means as a ministry, as a government because a year and a half ago, you're going as hard as we're going to deal with it, but what happened? Nothing! 300 million kuna, if I'm good somewhere, is what you've managed to collect, and in the media every day, they find people who can charge for it, so let's say there's one singer who needs to be charged for it, and there are those who don't need to be charged for it, and they're standing neatly on that list and there's a lot of others who teach moral lessons. That's the facts. The highest is also due there for contributions and taxes, etc. And now we're introducing another model, still. So now we write off the interest, so we'll reprogram your principal, etc. Where does that lead? Can you tell us? Here, did your pillar of shame experience a fiasco or is it a success for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37265	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37266	I must be honest that I do not understand the debts that occurred during your power that ultimately I am trying to say that there was no political intention. I'm trying to say that's all I'm trying to say. I'm not saying that now I'm trying to say that I'm defending you in that part that the simple system didn't work when you don't have a charge, that that part should be separated from this part. It's always come from me, and you'll never hear me politicize about those things, who wanted to be charged, who didn't have to be charged. I find it distasteful to say what you are, and which part of the media pulls out, so pulls out some, in this case singers where they're spoken of, personally, because I think everyone should have their own, when they talk about tax obligations that it's his, let's say in one part of intimacy that they should have the right to defend themselves. That's my personal opinion, you'll never hear from me that I'm politicizing in that part, or any of us can be in that situation tomorrow. Everyone can find themselves in that situation so that I, from me, will never hear that part of the half-merition and I think that we need to establish again, we're saying something all the time that will actually be independent of the functioning of the policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37267	Col. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37268	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll look back at the replica at the moment you said that the real estate tax is due somewhere around half a billion kuna. Now there's one fundamental question, when we're talking about the principle of justice as many of these cases are in these 600,000, are at this point in the second instance in the tax administration, as they are in the Administrative Court and as far as they are in the Supreme Court. I'm sure tens of thousands of these items we're talking about today. However, when I talk about whether or not the system exists, I'm sure you didn't have a 100% charge last year, when you subtracted from the bill from those old debts, but what was reported and found in 2012, you didn't have a 100% charge, let's say you had 99%. Your debt was somewhere around 110 billion, so 1% of that unpaid has increased the debt by a billion and 100 million kuna, and you can't say that the system doesn't work. So that's why I'm saying, if the average charge in the last ten years, so even at the time of the coalition government was about 97. 98%, then when you figure out that 1%, you see where that debt comes from and how that debt grows. But I repeat the basic principle and the conduct of social policy and tax policy cannot be written off, nor give social assistance to those who have something. It's just a fact, you can't get away from it because that someone who's acquired something might have gotten at the expense of the state not paying taxes. And so, as many go into bankruptcy today, in a blockade, and many will be left without anything in the name of not paying for some obligation, so someone in the past who hasn't paid for it has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37269	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37270	Thank you. So in this part of what I said in the opening statement, I agree with you that those parts that have a certain part of the property, that in that part will be going towards the charge. But as far as I'm saying in this section when you're talking about collection procedures, you wouldn't go into details, is that 97%, or is that now that 1%. I think it's a key process to always charge it, the one actually when a man has money, actually in that context, that he actually has to pay, that he has to establish in that part of the order. Will we succeed in establishing a system that, I must admit, is demanding, where you try and fight daily, but always something is coming to you, some things from the past. It's one challenge, but now I'm telling you how it's going to work in the future, we're trying to establish a fair system that, in fact, everyone actually has to pay taxes, so today it looks like a press, like some kind of press, but you see that even in all the reports when you watch and the media, that numerous and mobsters and actually certain politicians across a number of countries actually end up in prisons, in the end, mostly if they don't pay taxes. And it should actually be a message in the Republic of Croatia that we have a regulated society and that taxes are our obligation because these taxes actually pay pensions and health care systems. Because only when we've established such a system do we think we've taken a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37271	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37272	We're going to a decision-making session, a vote on the topics done in the Croatian Parliament. First is the Final Proposal for the collection of the tax debt of natural persons, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 341. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that we unanimously accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 109 votes in favour. I would like a representative of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Deputy Minister of Honor Boris Lalovec to explain to us. Amendment number one. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37273	Amendment number 1, meaning in Article 3(2), the word "registration" is replaced by "registrated", and the word "31 December 2012" is replaced by "until the day of entry into force of this law". The reasons, meaning the proposed amendments, as the conditions of the application of the law would include those natural persons and who have ceased to carry out activities which are not craftsmen, in order to put them in a more equal position, and relating to 31 December 2012, meaning that until the entry of this law, they are still covered by this 3,4 months until the law is passed, in fact, to cover and extend the circle, a larger number of debtors relating to the reprogramme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37274	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Only club representatives can participate in the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37275	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, even in the debate on this law, we have warned of the great injustice of this law, a law that simply does not accept key things, which are the social, property status of those who are taxed because of these 620,000 debtors, it is certainly those who have significant assets and who are now engaged in this activity as owners or co-owners of companies. And we believe that they came to this property by carrying out this activity for which they today have a tax debt and that no one simply has the right to write off any tax debt and liabilities to the state if he has property, and the payment of that debt does not endanger either the functioning, nor him, nor his family, and we believe that this is wrong. Thus, the basic principle when any tax laws are passed is the principle of justice. We, with this bill of law, regrettably bring down this principle of justice, and there is also something called tax facilities or whatever you want, sure you need to check whether anyone has the option or not to pay the tax. Secondly, I think it is not fair against thousands of Croatian craftsmen and thousands of owners and co-owners of companies who have sold their private assets in the past 4 years of the crisis to protect and preserve their businesses in order to protect and preserve jobs, to protect what is most important, and this is the substance of quality labour in their businesses because many of them are aware that tomorrow and when Croatia is economically recovering, if these people end up on the market, if they go away from them, they will find such quality people and continue to work. So they sold cottages and cars and boats and everything alive to keep those companies alive. However, colleagues and colleagues here are not about the write-off of 10, 20,000 kuna, this is about write-offs of several tens of millions of kuna. Look, if someone was able to make a tax debt out of a few dozen million kunas, then probably his property owned by him or his family's ropes is certainly overwhelming, because surely those people didn't live to say so in the life of an ordinary man, but they lived on a very high foot and I don't think there's any reason to write off a tax like that. We have made that clear, perhaps some will not like it, but it has always been the principle of our party and we have managed it. This may be one of the biggest populist moves the government is making, because it knows what 12 billion tax revenues are written off without criteria. Is there no criteria here, here the only criteria someone owes, the only criteria. But does he have property or co-ownership over one, two, five, or ten companies, if he has so much and so much, if he has any savings in the bank that he doesn't ask anyone, if he's got securities, if he's bought shares, if he's sent those money... Or somewhere else that doesn't interest anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why this law is unfair, it's unfair to those who are all these years old, Mr. President, if I can be a little quiet, I mean, it's unfair to all those who sold their assets to protect the company, and I especially don't like this provision because the original law says that all craftsmen and now registered activities by 31.12.2012. Now the question is, what if someone knew a month or a month or a half ago that this was going to be a change of law so in the last 15 or 20 days, they closed down companies, and there's a tax debt of several million kunas? So this is a law that simply neither the amendment nor the law that we can't support because if some other parties accuse themselves of populistism, then this is a populism couple of excellences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37276	Thank you, too. Any other interested in the club debate? Peja Grbin, a respected representative on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37277	Contrary to the attitude of an esteemed colleague who, however, at the end of his debate, touched the proposed amendments marginally. This is about an extremely honest and extremely fair and extremely useful law. With these laws, Croatian citizens, who are in times of crisis, we must all admit that they have come to an unusually difficult situation for a very long time. These laws allow them to breathe and at the same time provide for the state budget the possibility of obtaining money without destroying Croatian citizens or debtors. Because what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia, for example, is that hundreds or thousands of apartments and properties are purchased at auctions, from which they will have to delegate Croatian citizens tomorrow or who will have to sell on the market tomorrow to fill their tax holes. With this law, we are trying to ensure that citizens are given a period of 3,04 or 5 years to try to repay their debts while at the same time the amendment proposed by the Government ensures that registered activities mean doctors, architects, etc. bring them into the same position as the craftsmen, and so that everyone who sees their work doesn't work, shut it down and reprogram their debt so that this law and these amendments should certainly be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37278	Thank you, too. There are no more reports for discussion. I'm closing the debate. I ask that we make a statement on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against Amendment number one? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, by a single abstention, by a majority of 80 votes, we have adopted the amendment of Government No. 1 which becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number two, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37279	Amendment No 2 refers to Article 11 where, in the event of suspension of the application, the institute introduces a delay in the application, which is why it is necessary that, in fact, where the tax authority suspends that the order of payment is not lost during the course of the procedure when the financial agency gives the order for the execution of the basis for the payment of the order entered in the register of the order of payment grounds. So the Institute of Tax Administration is strengthened not to lose its order in suspending the operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37280	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37281	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. These amendments clearly show that everything we have spoken about the first amendment to this only amendment to Article 11 confirms this even more. So the government just doesn't know what they're gonna do. First she went with one measure, now she's going with other measures and those who haven't read the law and are talking about this. This law applies to those who have closed their crafts activity. So if you write off a tax, I don't know how he's going to successfully continue his craftsmanship again unless it's done for manipulative reasons, but good. Therefore, in paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the amendment states that the procedure of enforcement and confiscation by transfer of the cash held by the Executive Director to the Bank, which is carried out in order to collect the tax debt for which payment has been granted under this law, will be suspended in accordance with the official duty under the performance of the solution referred to in Article 10 and paragraph 1. Look, if you're writing to someone about interest and if someone accepts that the rest of the debt is paid depending on the amount of debt at 24, 36, up to 60 wars, then I don't understand why I still have extra consequences and at the same time everyone who barely lives in the moments when they want me to or didn't want to admit it. We can fight here as politically as we please, but the businessmen simply rise to the gills. We're pushing them out and look what's going on. Tax administration calls them, you didn't pay VAT we'll block you. At the same time someone owes 5.6 million kunas closed the crafts, opened the company to someone or co-owner of the company and it functions nicely further and owes 6.7 million kunas based on the crafts. It's a picture of you today in Croatia and a picture of what this law will bring. And those who are really struggling, who really want to stay on the market, who really want to work, who really want to keep their jobs, don't have to pay if they don't pay the VAT amount or any donations to the state, they're blocked and there's a tight interest of 12 or 14%. Is this a message to all those who work, who create a new value, we will punish you because we can still take something from you, but all of you who have not paid taxes but have bought something else, we will forgive you for your interest and allow you to settle your obligations for interest beyond the criteria for the next 5 or 4 years. Are you colleagues and colleagues aware of what you're doing? And why is that? And because this is the two laws of this political option. So, in 2002, the Coalition passed a bill on incomes rather than on charges. The effect of that was almost nothing. Not even 500 million out of 24 billion kunas were charged. Now you've brought a similar law again, and the logical thing is that you send a message to all those who don't pay taxes, when we come to power we'll forgive you again and you all who pay taxes in Croatia are fools. It's just something that doesn't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37282	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37283	The esteemed colleague spoke again and again about everything and at least about the amendment itself, but here in short. This amendment shall ensure that, in situations where the implementation of, for example, on real estate, the Republic of Croatia may be put on hold to delay the implementation of the mandate or in certain situations, that the implementation, i.e. the recording of the implementation in land books, may be converted by means of a decision of the competent court, into a law in force. And thus ensures that those who have the property, whose assets are carried out in case they do not pay the debt, that they do not pay the debt reprogrammed by applying Article 12 of this Act, have done on their property what they owed and with interest. So, on the contrary, this amendment ensures that those who have invested money in real estate, in shares, if they do not repay their debt, the interest debt can be charged on their assets and it is written in this amendment. And the extraordinary purpose will be to stop where, on financial means, and why, because the bills where the money was already on were to say so, to clear everyone off, if there was money. Tax administration, the state took the money down and moved it to the state budget, and that's why the execution is suspended. And as for the presentation of an esteemed colleague, I must say that no one has come into the situation that they can't carry out their duties because he wanted to. At times, they have come to the wrong and wrong moves, and let's be realistic in the case of most citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the situation that they cannot meet their obligations and those concerning taxes, citizens have come because of the difficult situation. And it is our obligation as a state to help them and to ensure that at least part of the tax obligations are charged because it is obvious that in these cases where this law applies something tried to charge and failed. So we're not talking about billionaires here, we're talking about citizens who've been sitting on accounts, who's sitting on real estate and whose debt hasn't been charged. If we're going to make sure that at least part of the debt is charged, we did it and that's the point of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37284	Thank you, too. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number two. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 81 for and 25 against and 1 abstention of the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have been accepted and become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Honor to make a statement on Amendment No 1. to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37285	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37286	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part, just one. Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill by raising my hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 81 for, 1 vote against and 26 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the collection of the tax debt of natural persons in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37287	We move to - Proposal for a law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, first, P.Z. No. 342. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37288	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So there is another law before us that is not a harmonisation, in fact an unharmonised law regarding the EU. It refers to the proposal of the Law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages. It is important to point out that the applicable laws are not in line with the basic principles of the operating contract, meaning the prohibition of discrimination, the abolition of all cross-border formalities and do not respect the environment of functioning on the single market. What's important here is that the law unites up to the current two laws that have defined taxation with a special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages. So it defines the tax system when imports from other EU countries, the continuation of the tax obligation is defined in terms of functioning on the European market. Here is certainly an important newspaper is the introduction, the system of postponement of paying a special tax, the possibility of opening a warehouse, means for goods loaded, means a special tax as an option. So far it was right when you actually imported, in that part you had to pay, and now you actually have that stuff when you put on the market, when you put on the market, there's taxation in that part, so a special tax on both coffee and non-alcoholic drinks. So in this part, the same thing about liquidity for those imported companies, especially coffees or these non-alcoholic beverages through this part of the payment delay, certainly made it easier for them to operate. The specific rules also allow for the return of a specific tax after export in case the goods are declared unusable. As regards non-alcoholic beverages from taxation are excluded products that are considered food for special food products, food supplements natural fruit juices, vegetable juices, water without extra sugar and fruit juices and fruit nectars, so they are not and the part where, additional taxation, refers to water with additional sugars or these additional sweeteners and flavoured water and non-alcoholic beer since that part had to be harmonised. In short, there are also certain specific taxes in the EU on non-alcoholic beverages such as Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Finland, Latvia, Hungary, France outside the EU on taxes on the taxation of Norway and BiH. For coffee, taxation of unroasted coffee and coffee scales is abolished because these are not products intended for final consumption. Reduce the level of special tax on coffee contained in the finished product. The level of tax on coffee from 60 kuna is reduced by one kilogram of net weight contained in the finished product to 20 kuna net weight if it is the proportion of extractive essence or concentrate of coffee in the finished product. What's important for business in this part. The EU-based branding system is abolished so that there are no more stamps in this section due to the single market. This level of the special tax on market coffee remains the same and the level of the special tax on essential extracts and concentrates of coffee remains the same. Coffee in the EU in this part is taxed, such as in Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Latvia and Romania's exports outside the EU to BiH and Serbia. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37289	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37290	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here we are facing a law that essentially unites two existing laws and charges the excise duty on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages essentially complies with the Excise Taxation Act, or roof law. Although this is about excise duties that are not harmonised at EU level, Croatia is quite free to apply them. However, the way they are applied must be consistent with the freedom of movement of capital, goods and other fundamental freedoms. In fact, it could be said at first sight that this law does not make any significant and significant changes other than this technical harmonisation and unification of the two laws. However, there is actually one important reason why it is worth supporting this law and this important reason lies in the fact that the Ministry of Finance has succeeded in bringing here a tax law without increasing the tax burden. Moreover, in one part of taxing coffee, the tax burden is reduced as many as ten times. So coffee essence taxation is reduced from 60 kuna to 6 or 20 kuna, respectively. In view of this and given the current economic situation, this law and a good indication that the Ministry of Finance should also work in the future as regards taxes and the level of tax burden. In view of this, therefore, given that it is part of a technical clarification and given the efforts made by the Ministry of Finance not to increase the tax burden and where this could be reduced, the HDZ club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37291	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37292	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club supports the intensities of the Ministry of Finance and a concrete proposal to cover the subject of taxation, special taxation of coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, which has been, as counterpart Dalic said so far, mainly treated with two special regulations, two laws. The fact is that taxation of coffee and non-alcoholic beverages is not something that is harmonised at EU level because only five of the 27 EU member states are being taxed and 7 out of 27 taxation of non-alcoholic beverages. We are particularly interested in what this law, with such proposed solutions, brings into the context of our entry into the EU or the positioning of Croatia in a competitive environment, in light of the fact that the coffee and coffee products industry in the European Union countries is also highly developed and that the non-alcoholic beverages industry, in particular those not produced from natural juice and natural nectar, which we also consider to be drinks in terms of specific taxation under this law, is also extremely developed. So what does taxation in this particular case mean for our producers in a competitive environment? The fact is, therefore, that the applicant has proposed a more relaxed approach to the specific taxation of coffee drinks, i.e. coffee-containing drinks, essence extracts and coffee concentrates, and very, very sensitive. We know that the culture of drinking coffee and coffee products and with us is very widespread and that it is practically one element of every social contact almost with us. And when it's usually said to see someone or meet someone, then we say we go for coffee, regardless of what in many cases we might not have coffee, but something else. But ever since coffee came after the battle to free Vienna into the homes of all Europe, it has definitely become one of the ritual elements that we use almost everyone and almost every day. So then this cheaping, or a reduction in the excise duty on coffee and coffee products, will be welcome for most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to non-alcoholic beverages, the subject of taxation becomes from the adoption of laws and waters, including soda water, which has been added to sweetener and other preparations that make this water aromatised, which has not been the case so far. However, there is also an existing level of taxation when it comes to juices produced from concentrates and syrups now amounting to 40 kuna per hectolitre for syrups, or 40 kuna per hectolitre of juice or 400 kuna per hectolitre of syrup. This level of load practically means that in each bottle of 1.5 liters of non-alcoholic beverages produced and syrup 60 lipa goes to this particular tax. However, it should be noted that in the total retail price of such a single package, all payments to the State amounted to almost 50% and, in that sense, the Community of Producers also asked the Ministry for a more relaxed approach and that the ministry agreed to discuss this in March this year and even offer a more favourable version. We hope that there is still room for discussion and that until the second reading, the Ministry of Finance will consider all pro et counter arguments that this tax burden is relaxed or reduced because of the country's rakurso which deals with tourism especially after the introduction of the preferential VAT rate in catering and tourism is not and cannot be whatever the entry costs are in the tourist or catering industry. In general, therefore, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats welcomes the proposing's efforts, welcomes the rationalisation of legal matter in one document by the government. It supports proposals which are the basis of changes in the current system of special taxation of coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, noting that we are asking for further talks and negotiations with producers to make our non-alcoholic liquor industry even more vulnerable than the drinks produced in the same countries of the environment and above all in the EU countries, given that we are becoming an integral part of its market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37293	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37294	Proposal for a Law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, first reading, P.Z. No. 342. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion 1. The proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks and 2nd all observations, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 108 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37295	And we're moving on to - Customs Service Bill Proposal, first reading, P.Z. No. 314 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37296	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is another law that defines the organisational structure within the Ministry of Finance. The Customs Service Act addresses issues relating to the jurisdiction and tasks of the Customs Service of the Organisation, powers and specialities in the rights and obligations and responsibilities of customs officials. By entering the EU, the customs administration of the Republic of Croatia takes over the role of security and fiscal protection of the entire EU and the Republic of Croatia and ensures the free movement of goods between Member States and third countries. The Republic of Croatia is becoming a part of the EU's single customs space, which represents the abolition of border customs procedures towards EU countries, according to Italy, Slovenia and Hungary. Of the total exchange of goods between the Republic of Croatia and abroad, about 61% is the data for 2012 is the relationship with the EU, it is cited as a consequence of the reorganization of the work of customs establishments for intra-country customs duties. What is amended by this law is the regulation of certain segments of the work of the Customs Service in terms of Croatia's membership in the EU and redefines the area of jurisdiction and application of customs procedures following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to membership, the adaptation of organisational forms for the extension of business in order to ensure the security of the market and financial interests of the Republic of Croatia, and a more transparent reduction of the number of establishment units, means some new transactions of the Customs Service are the supervision of the implementation of regulations on the prohibition and prevention of unregistered activity and the detection and prevention of all forms of illicit and illegal trade, then supervision of the entry and amount of cross-border traffic and other movement and availability of waste, control of collection, fees for the management of specific categories, also the verification of legality and handling of goods in accordance with the rules on concessions. So that part of the job that's now customs has been doing according to the current functioning and by entering the European Union where that one part of the sex is lost and in order to actually preserve all the jobs within the customs administration because we think there's a lot of quality people who have been in the system for a long time we're going to try to actually use all the personnel means in this part let's say we're dealing with the gray economy. So in the part where there are certain fiscal effects on the budget, in fact, that colleagues who own certain skills and skills are actually now telling these one let's tell the administrative movement of barriers from their jobs actually not to remain unemployed but actually think that they can actually find a job within the Ministry of Finance. What is important is the appointment on the basis of a public tender, especially the Director of Customs Administration, Deputy Director, Assistant Director and Head of the Regional Customs Office. So we think that in the future they should be chosen by public competition. Also, my opinion is the same as the tax administration's full professionalization of this job. Because we believe that, especially when there is a fiscal impact in that part of it, it must be done as well. The classification of posts shall be introduced on executives, higher and lower customs officers and certain customs knowledge shall be introduced depending on the degree of education, appropriate work experience, annual evaluations and the examination passed. The Ministry of Finance means, in accordance with the new organisational structure, it will take account, so that all employees are evenly deployed to certain areas, especially where we consider where supervision and control should be improved. A certain portion of the staff will certainly try to deploy within let's say port captains. If you could get some requalification to work inside, we know that inside the prison system there are certain deficits inside the police. So, here we are going to fight for every job inside the customs officer who has experience, has exams laid down to find him a certain part of where he will be organised in the repression of the grey economy and certainly if he is not covered in that section he is actually found within the other organisational units of the Government of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37297	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37298	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we go, slowly finishing this financial set of laws. And frankly, I'm surprised that colleagues from the ruling coalition are not interested in this agenda point. And I am sorry that my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance did not accept the conclusion that I proposed to the Committee on the Economy for the simple reason that I believe that, in the light of this Law, the Proposer was incorrectly referring to 3,000 and slightly more employees in the Customs Service. Why? So for a simple reason, the deputy minister said that practically all customs crossings from the border to the beginning of the border with Hungary to the practical border for Slovenia are disappearing. At these borders, people with certain qualifications, knowledge, foreknowledge, etc. work. And I think the elemental thing that we, as Parliament's advocates, had to get in the light of this law is the number of employees employed at this time in customs their qualification structure and how much to say in this first run of customs remains in the home service. So how many of them will work at these customs border crossings towards Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and will remain at customs stations in the Adriatic ports. Unfortunately, we have not received this from me for unknown reasons, nor has it been stated in reason. Now there's one question to ask how many people there are too many. Is there a surplus in customs because if we're going to say that we're going to redistribute someone to the judicial police, to the port administrations, etc., he's excess. He's an extra. And we can call it whatever we want. However, even in the budget in different positions, money is provided for these people. Now you're asking each other a question. Does that mean that so far in those services we've had a shortage of employees. Or we didn't have a shortage of employees. The second thing, knowing the qualification structure, most of those people who have worked at the border crossings, is a fundamental question of whether the Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration and what it has taken according to my information, which is not one phone call in the last few days that these people wear to be able to do these other jobs that are said to work, fight against the gray economy, control of the ecological, control of concessions and some other legal regulations and, above all, fight against the gray economy. So, what's evident is that no matter what we get to convince the Committee on the Economy of the Customs Representatives that that's the case. Unfortunately, however, conflicting information comes from customs. However, colleagues and colleagues here I simply want to warn you of something that, I thought the time was behind us. Pure political personnel, pure political appointment of people and concrete status so that when the next government comes, there's no way it's moving them away for the next three years. Because if you look at some of the provisions of the Law from Articles 64 to 67, then you will see that there is a quasi competition here, appointing people where no one can come from, there must be people from the narrow circle and don't give God, and I wouldn't want to be rude, you can only change them if they die, no different. So look at Article 64, says the director is elected through a public tender in time of 5 years. Why in time of 5 years if everyone appointed to the cabinet of ministers, the cabinet of the government, all deputies, all assistants, and the head of customs is in the ranks and director of the IRS and sometimes in the Head of State Secretary, why he for 5 years. And now, at once, a public competition. And now you're going to see a very interesting thing, when HDZ conducted public procurements for ministerial assistants, actually management directors, then we're going to say that it's a quasi public tender, which is a designation by political criteria. But now that the SDP is doing so, it's a high degree of democracy, of course there will be no political staffing. But look, says the director is appointed to the competition in time of 5 years, the director can be appointed as a person who meets the general legal requirements and special conditions. At least 15 years of work experience in the work of customs and tax services, internal affairs and other security inspection and supervisory services. Now, if we eliminate customs officers and tax collectors, tell me what else they have to do with this business they're doing with customs, and let's just say there's not one successful manager in some kind of company. What's the difference? The only ones who have some kind of knowledge that customs officials are looking for are those who work in the tax administration and customs. And if we're gonna stick with it then we're gonna be left with them, but if we throw in these other guys then anyone who has 15 years of working experience in running some big company has all the conditions to be head of customs. However, some companies dealing with imports and exports may have 15 times more qualified or, say, some financial director in some company, take, say, INA, Agrokor, not to advertise any company now, that their financial director has no conditions to be head of Customs Administration. A little funny, but according to the proposal of this law, it's true. He says 10 years at least at the workplace of a government official. What does a government official mean? That's where one elemental question is asked. So a civil servant doing a tightly specialized job is qualified by repeating one of the financial directors of some kind of international corporation. Maybe a man wants to calm down and wants to go to the headmaster of Customs, but this law makes it impossible for him to do so. The Grand Director shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The Grand Director can be resolved before the deadline on which he was appointed, but this is fantastic, says on a personal request, for the permanent inability to work and act, if the executive decision finds him guilty of serious violation of official duty and says the termination of the service by force of the law. So no benchmark of success, no ability, it doesn't exist, it simply doesn't exist in the socialist systems. And what is the point and basis of everything, the principle of success doesn't exist, so it means whether someone is successful or not. But what's most important, look, to you, at the head of a very important service comes a man who has no criteria like all his colleagues in the administration. In which is the difference between the Director of the Customs Administration and the Director of the Tax Administration, the difference between the Director of the Police and the Director of the Customs Administration. Look, I think it's a little funny that only one director in the entire state administration gets away with it, he's a specific person, he's special and he's not in the cabinet of the minister. Now, just as Minister of Finance, I wouldn't want to agree that all my assistants and deputies are also the director of the IRS being in some kind of office, and the head of the Customs Administration is some kind of guy who came from somewhere else, and he's a specific person, and no one is allowed to touch him. It means something that just isn't good and isn't smart. And then the post of head of customs officials, i.e. The Deputy and Assistant Director and Head of the Regional Customs Administration shall be filled in through a public tender, etc. Now says the deputy assistant appoints and resolves the finance minister on a proposal from the director for a period of 5 years. The deputy and assistant may be resolved before the deadlines appointed for the same reason as in Article 65(1) of this Act, so if their director does not die, neither can they until they die, there is no way to move them. So the guiding nomenclature in customs. That's just funny. My colleagues and colleagues, it's funny, it's even different from the basic beginnings and what the Prime Minister and all his ministers and colleagues from the ruling coalition tried to convince us here when we had laws under this minister, laws by that minister and finally when they said so we have the right to bring people into our cabinet and when we leave these people with us. Now what's the difference between these people and the leaders in the Customs Administration? In what? What are you blasphemers for, say, the head tax administrations aren't? Why are you devoid of what the Prime Minister was saying? Very strange and very funny, except of course political personneling, cementing still wouldn't want to talk because I wouldn't want to hurt anyone. But colleagues and colleagues, this article from 64 to 67 clearly tells you that the one who wrote the law is considering in general this law called the Customs Service Bill. So those customs officers who are now at the border crossings I don't care about them, what's gonna happen to them, where they're gonna end up also I don't care. Khedrovski did not train them to do other jobs if they were not on customs duty in this section towards Serbia, BiH and Montenegro or down in that Adriatic part, but this party's appointment is something simple that I don't think anyone in this House should support. Well, I'm just wondering if my colleagues from the ruling coalition are gonna raise their hands for this. Why? For reasons they fought so hard to explain to us when we had three, four amendments to the Law on State officials and tenants, when they assured us that that common servant when he came to the cabinet of the Prime Minister or the Minister was leaving that service at the time his boss was leaving. Now I want to know how much consistency there will be and when the hand is raised for this law. Because this is then you admit that everything you did and what and as soon as you explained those appointments and those changes to the law were basically purely politics. Because this has nothing to do with it. This is the personnel concreteization of personnel which do not allow the next minister three years to change any management structure in customs. Or maybe it's an introduction to what's waiting for us and for all the other services in the state administration. But I repeat, I say all death, all but ability and success that is not the criteria for staying is simply ridiculous. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'm surprised by the insolence of the motionary. My colleague Lalovac, this is not going to make you think that I am telling you, that even after the debate on the Committee on Economy was discussed when something like this was said they did not find it appropriate to until the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the representatives of the Parliament present themselves with how many people with medium professional equipment in customs. And colleagues and colleagues, a lot of these people came from some other life education to work on the customs of those jobs that work there. That's what they've learned, they've passed schools, they've studied courses. They're doing it successfully. Now that you get them off that job, the basic question is whether these people are guilty if they're not able to make a record of a gray economy tomorrow or something like that. Why am I talking like this? And even maybe a little emotional for the simple reason they're my colleagues. I've been in charge of these people for seven years, and I know the problems of this service, and I know the problems of these people, and I know well all the troubles they've been dealing with, and I know well what's going to happen to them in the future. And we can nod with our heads as much as we want, but this is classic party staffing, classic party concreteing of our personnel, classic party setting up our own people, and we can't support it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37299	We're moving on to replicas. The first one is Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37300	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you've talked a lot about customs and the problem that will arise with their overnumbered, their surplus that will now occur from July 1st. I'd like to add some more freighters. I have referred a parliamentary question about this and the problem of a freighter who appears just like a surplus that is simply not solved. These people have come up with information to say that in Slovenia, negotiating has succeeded in EU accession, and they have managed to achieve some of the privileges for that part of the people, or even some of the funds targeted at it. Unfortunately, we got the answer that it had enough time to take care of itself, so they knew that we would join the EU. I'm about to caricate a little bit, but that's the answer. And another thing, what you said about the contests. You were really picturesque, you described a lot of things, although I remembered the beginning when this power came in, so she talked about these competitions that she would no longer be doing such competitions as HDZ did because they were farces from the competition. I have to admit, for some part, they were most of it right. There really was that for your era quite, but you see they studied it in the meantime. They've done a little work on the model, and all you've said is this they've upgraded practically the model that used to be. This one is much better, and these competitions are really targeted and only the missing pictures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37301	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37302	Yes, colleague Novak, we have tried in such a way to appoint members of the supervisory boards and members of the management of companies, and also directors of the administration for the simple reason that this administration is professionalized and depolitized. As far as we did, we took the first step. Maybe if someone kept doing it, maybe the second step would be better. The third would probably be even more quality and then finally something satisfying would come. However, once you have to stop with one practice. But this brings us back 23 years. It is a pure party contest with a picture, the committee will determine who will go to which function and there is no other story. 'Cause look at these conditions, it's hard to meet someone. But I'm saying one Director of Financial Agrocora, Croatie or something else has no chance of becoming Director of the IRS because he's not 10 years old in the state service. And where does that lead us? But at the same time 3000 and something else from the Customs Administration, you haven't found any solids like this resistance where they're going to be found, where they're going to solve their problem, because they're going to start doing something. You can think of a man who's been controlling the entrance, exit, or, say, controlling those papers where they actually pass by trucks or other freighters. And now he comes into some kind of company, like a excise warehouse, and he needs to check whether all the goods inside according to the Excise Taxation Act are being ran, recorded, and whether the relationship is being charged. So, with all due respect to these people, they know, they simply don't know how to do the job, and now it takes them a year of education to just do it. However, what I would be happy if it wasn't so. But my customs colleagues say no one's done any practical education with them, but I repeat that party selection now watch. What is the situation in the country is very easy to make elections in six, seven months. And this head of customs will be in this government, the next government that will be full of four years and another year waiting for that third minister. He's a god. No one can do anything to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37303	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37304	Dear Representative Shuker, I'm surprised you're surprised. You say what happens to the customs. Now you didn't listen very closely to your SDP colleague before, so you didn't hear him when you said it was, he said it was a free market. You can't control who quits in the free market, where people go. No, the free market means you're free to be fired. We enjoy all freedoms in Croatia, especially the freedom to forgive we enjoy the most. Because who's going to take care of people in the free country? You said you did not notice in the competition, or in the criteria prescribed for the director, the criteria of ability and the criteria of success. These are two criteria which, mainly in 23 years, the negative selections carried out in Croatia are still too high today. It's just a trend that continues. I liked it a lot more when the government representatives said that sentence we got the election, we take responsibility for our backs. Now they've seen it's not working out, that responsibility doesn't seem to work out, it's all going downhill, now we're going to compete. And how are we going to conduct the competitions? The competitions will be held so that we will give the conditions as you are given the conditions you have probably already seen when the terms for car purchase are prescribed. It all says, whatever it says, the axle so much should be, the felge so should be, you'll find it hard to find, that heated sic, cooled sic etc. And you know exactly what car it is. That's how it's done here, one army of SDPs and HNS soldiers will be hired. They're yours before, I don't know where they'll go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37305	Thank you. Your turn may come. Col. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37306	Thank God so there are ours and yours, we should probably import all these together that we're going to hire. Look, colleague Vuksic, the free market has its own rules and it only exists because it insists on some rules, and this bill unfortunately has no rules. So just take one thing, five offices, customs. No office is near the only border that will have customs crossings, and that is the Serbian, Bosnian and ultimately Montenegrin because you have Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and you have offices. No office is directly bound to this transition. He's saying, so he's gonna be there, there's gonna be some outposts in Osijek, he's gonna be here. Well, the logical thing to do would be, but it would also be more logical to say that somewhere in Udbina or Korenica makes an office that will practically cover that whole part of the Bosnian border. Why? For the simple reason that the problems at that border are specific. Even not nearly problems at the border with Serbia-Montenegro such as these problems towards BiH. Because of the smuggling and the people and the high-priced goods and everything. Well, it would make sense for that one office to be stationed somewhere for a million reasons. He might even be some kind of economic development generator in that area where you don't even have a practical settlement today. But no, it has to be this stationed, positioned, and then there will be outposts. It doesn't matter if you in the crisis area have an office and a head office that has far more authority than the head of the outpost. But what is crucial, so here we are convinced that someone with a winning set is coming and with that winning set is leaving. Here, this law is a confirmation that the rulings jumped themselves into their mouths.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37307	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37308	Thank you very much. Well, I can see that some others in this assembly are thinking as much as I am, on the same track. That this government is probably just as much of a responsibility. So we've heard for a long time that they're responsible and that they don't need to conduct public tenders, that it's unnecessary because they know what they're doing and they're responsible and they name who and how they want to be non-transparent and without competitions, and now they're probably bored with it because responsibility is one burden and burden, and yet then I think this is another law that proposes to conduct competitions. How and why for the director of the Customs Administration at exactly five years, we'll probably hear why this particular person. Maybe he has some good reason we don't know about. But then, since this is the first reading, here I am and I will say this to my colleague Shucker you didn't notice, let's just say that the director can be appointed to a person who has at least 15 years of experience in customs duties etc. and at least 10 years at the workplace of a management officer. It is not clear from this article whether this must be cumulatively or alternatively, so it could be interpreted in any way depending on the application to the competition. So here's why I'm proposing to be constructive that this should be said to have at least 15 years of working experience on jobs from that district, and of that, at least 10 years on the affairs of a government official, because I assume that's the intensity of this law. As for assistant directors, I would also warn on Articles 9 and 10 which speak of assistants what they do, but forgets that all these regionalized regional offices through quiet regionalisation are also their representatives of the directors and then does not fit their description of the jobs in this description in Article 9. And I think it'll have to be arranged by the second reading, if the law wants to be as it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37309	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You see, colleagues of Lovrin, except for the governor of the CNB and his deputy and vice governor and the leaders of some agencies, no one in this country has a term of office for five years, no one. And all of these are some kind of independent institutions. So the CNB is an independent institution, agencies are independent institutions, and we're now pushing one administration. I really don't see what makes a fellow Smilyanite worse than the future director of the IRS? So, she's appointed, she came with the minister, she's leaving with the Minister, but the Director of the Customs Administration will be a face for the simple reason that the new Customs Administration Act is being passed because it's probably that in that run-in when some were ready to take responsibility for the adopted Customs Administration Act, probably that law wouldn't look like this, but it would also go if someone were coming and going in the package, but I'm saying this, this Director of Customs Administration can actually happen to become... in the Republic of Croatia, to serve three ministers and three governments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because what kind of situation can be chosen and a new government will come and that government will last four years and then a new government will come again, and his term of office of five years will not go the same way as his deputies, but you see when someone else starts with a process to discuss a public tender, that's what the leaders of the state administration are called, then it's politics, political appointment. Although the conditions were not even this way, look at what conditions were for the director of the administration by the ministries and you will see that the conditions were far more liberal and that people were far more capable of becoming so. And the condition for leaving the head of these administrations was far lighter and the basic principle was expertise and quality. However, the conditions set out here are that there are practically only a few people in the state administration, because you've well noticed that it's not defined whether it's in the battery or the sum total, so look at how many people you have in the state administration with this status, and then you'll see who can be the director of the tax administration, we'll just stick the pictures on these screens and say that's the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37311	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37312	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37313	Turn on the microphone, buddy mic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37314	Excuse me. So, you've brought out your colleague Shucker that at 1.7, so these border crossings are going to stop working, so let's say from Miholjc, let's say in this whole part of Hungary. And in that part of me, I didn't mean to pick up the line but I remembered that here and in my midst there's also a border crossing where people will certainly not work anymore and that they will be and that many are worried about their existence. And in fact, there's no first blow to those people who are employed, namely 1.7. In 2012, a small and local thought was lifted from the Customs Department of Koprivnica which worked, which was responsible for this whole part and attached to the Customs of Varazdin. Customs station Varazdin, now in 1.7.2013, that customs office is abolishing one, then the office, if I speak well, apologize if I'm not professional enough. The two offices are being put on and I'm expressing concern, I'm saying I'm worried that the Koprivnica and Podravina are going to stay short sleeves again, so they're going to start humanizing on this side and we're really, really strong, we've got a few deputies here at the ministry. And in that matter again, our Podravs, let's say they are, are civil servants, but they may surely again bear a burden that is not fair or fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37315	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37316	Thank you very much. Col. Milinkovic, those people who worked at the border crossings had night work and work on Saturdays, and work on Sundays, and work on holidays and from that basis had bonuses on pay according to collective agreements. They are now practically left without it, because they are from the operatives who worked 365 days per 24 hours depending on when they were hit, turning to clean administrators, officials who will do their job for 8 hours. And with that base, they're getting paid, some 30 and 40 percent. These are facts we can't escape from. Many in the name of their profits and incomes and raised loans, housing not, not loans that would spend money this shitty. And these people, looking real, their families are in trouble. And that's why I've highlighted the question, I think this is a question that the Ministry of Finance has to think about, because look, the question is whether people from these little transitions will be able to work out there somewhere in their environment or they'll have to go to work 50, 60 kilometers. Because with these little customs crossings, you're simply not going to have some administrative space where they're going to be doing this job that we're talking about, he's not going to have any practical, tax warehouses or anything. The office in Osijek practically covers that complete part of all those customs crossings that were once towards Hungary. What are you going to do about these people in Osijek, leave them with some kind of outposts where they're going to do the job? That's not what the law says here, and that's what we asked on the Committee on Economy, to just write it down, you did write it to us, if you have it all worked out, but obviously you don't have it, because that's how you've done it, after that debate on the Committee on Economy, you would have done it. And I'm sorry that the Committee on Economy didn't vote, I apologize to my colleague, Radjenovic, as chairman of the board, because you supported this proposal, to have that data delivered to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37317	Thank you, dear fellow, for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37318	But the apology of colleagues to Radenovic, it was the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37319	And Igor Radenovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37320	Here's a thank you. I will rely on that part of your debate which was actually more than half the debate over the outrageous party staffing and concreteisation as directors etc. Well, Mr. Shuker, I know we've been here a long time, 12th point or which one today and last in this financial package, but we all know what the initial state was, right? The government's initial state of affairs was either at least a few months before Mladen Barisic's head of customs administration with all his duties and duties outside of his job, just to remember. Now, the political will for public competition, and you said about whether it was good to have it, etc. Did professionalism and you quoted articles in the law, so that we came to independence from politics to professionalism, to depolitisation, etc. I think it's a good intensity, we already have similar solutions in the police, whether individual solutions are about 5 years old, about these conditions are good or bad to see. For me, it's one thing and the other, actually this first thing in particular, the second thing we're going to see until the second reading is whether we can fix it or not, and what you would support in your debate is to even the criteria anyway. I say some of these solutions through the Police Act have already been done and in the same treatment we bring and, as it's called, a service under finance and tax administration, thank you. And tax administration, etc. Why not if this is the first step in that direction. But I've already had one replica today, so I've read you some old laws, and now I have to read you some transitional and final provisions about this law, so when and how this public tender comes into force means Article 121. Paragraph 2 says: "A public tender for the selection of directors, deputy directors and assistant directors will be opened no later than 60 days from the day of entry into office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the first parliamentary elections, after the entry into force of this law." So every parliamentary election is chosen by a new director and I say with these provisions that we can see and think about his independence from politics is just being achieved and I think it's a big step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37321	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37322	Look, colleague Radjenovic, you can be as naughty as you want but you've found a service that's finished negotiations. You found a service that was evaluated by colleagues in Austria by the highest possible professional rating and found a service that was completely legislative. And I would like Mr Grabar here in front of the Croatian public to say that's not true. I'd like him to say it here, let him say it. So you found it. Just a little bit, the Ministry of Finance, the customs administration of no business or anything with the FIMI media has done, so please take these jobs away from the customs administration for the sake of these honest 3,000 and so many people. Every one of those people who did wrong was responsible for their part of the job, but I repeat, the administration has done high-professional work, completed negotiations, has regulated legislation, has professionally capable people for the job. In my debate, I was talking about jobs that would disappear, and those people who would do other jobs without it being party-coking, you can't convince me if you set these conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37323	On behalf of HNS, counterpart Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37324	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In principle, the HNS has no more significant objections to the proposal for this law. I'm going to say something at the end of the debate about this potential problem that's opening up and that's the extra employees in the customs service that we think can be solved and that maybe in some previous period, they could take steps to make it easier for him to be resolved today and at this point than it will be, as I say, something at the end of the day to say. In order to further coordinate the Croatian Customs System and the position of customs service as a whole with the EU customs system and the position of customs services in the EU, as well as in view of the upcoming accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership with date 1. In July, we believe that this proposal of the Customs Service Act has taken another quality step towards final harmonisation and further improving the work of the customs service under new conditions. In order to allow for the future functioning of customs services in the single customs territory of the EU as well as the application of directly binding EU customs rules from the date of accession with a simultaneous suspension of validity and application of Croatian customs regulations, it is necessary to enable legislative assumptions in order for the customs office to be able to effectively and fully translate the rules and ensure their effective application and implementation of the development of administrative and operational capacities and, in accordance with the good customs practice of EU Member States, the full establishment and implementation of all specific institutes and systems. The applicable law means the current law does not prescribe all segments of the work and operation of the customs service under the conditions of Croatia's membership in the EU and therefore it was necessary to create these assumptions for further harmonisation of the Croatian Customs System and the situation of the customs service with the EU customs system. By adopting a new law, the proposal for this Customs Service Act would dispute the legal assumptions for a better performance of the fiscal role of the customs service as well as the establishment of the security role of the customs service in accordance with the requirements of the European Customs Regulations and the more effective suppression of all forms and modes of carrying out economic activities or transactions in ways that deviate from the legitimate standards known as the common name of the grey economy and the associated occurrences of tax ejaculation, all forms of smuggling, money laundering and other forms of punitive behaviour, which are necessary in view of the change in the customs service which will follow the EU accession. We believe that it should be pointed out that the customs administration has an obligation to create all the necessary preconditions that, with the first day of EU membership, legal gains in the field of the customs and excise system are applied in a proper and uniform manner, i.e. in a manner consistent with the good practice of customs services in the EU. The adaptation to the conditions of action within the EU implies taking over additional transactions in circumstances where the customs administration will directly apply European customs regulations. There will also be additional jobs resulting from the process of adapting the conditions of action in the EU and the generally changed environment of customs treatment, which are reflected in several important segments of work. One is the application of the system of management of the Common European Customs Tariff and of the quotas. The application of the common European trade agrarian policy, the application of control systems and export incentives in agriculture, the provision of conditions for the proper use of information systems, the implementation of security measures, the development of a completely new system of processing, compatible with all complex requirements of European customs legislation. It is also important to note that the accession of the EU's Republic of Croatia is significantly redefining the role of the customs service in such a way that current national border management becomes an act at the EU's external borders and, consequently, requires a new establishment of the customs administration. As a result of that draft law, a division of the central office in addition to the Regional Customs Offices and Border Customs Offices is proposed only to customs offices, a new role of the customs service which, on the one hand, performs tasks at the external borders of the EU and, on the other hand, in the context of national territory, with commitments arising from the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, and other fiscal tasks, mainly to combat all forms of grey economy. In this connection, the legal role of customs officials as well as the basic factors of the implementation of the commitments undertaken is also harmonised. Therefore, in the end, she would say something about the structure, or the extra staff, that will inevitably appear, and we are all aware of that. Perhaps in this first reading, it would be good to see what is the number of people and what is the structure of people who are going to lose their jobs. However, we have been very well aware here for a very long time, which is the day of Croatia's EU accession, and I think that the colleagues who had fallen very seriously under the protection of the rights of the people employed in the Customs Administration were also on the occasion of holding the authority to prepare this service for the situation in which 1.7 will be found. In fact, funds from pre-accession funds that could be used for education, human requalification, other jobs or similar jobs that will be opened at the time when Croatia becomes a member of the EU and certainly will be a whole series of jobs that are now part of the control system, not only of these financial flows but also of some other controls, and where these employees who have a long-term practice in the control system could certainly be relatively simple through education and education probably and not too expensive to find in these systems that will be opened as an opportunity for new jobs when Croatia enters the EU. So we've had time for this all together, I don't know, and maybe the question is going towards the ministry or Mr. Deputy whether since the power taken over by the Kukuriku coalition has done anything in this direction to make one analysis of the staff to see how these personnel are rerouted, educated, trained for some potentially new jobs that are being opened. Someone here said they had an emotional, Mr. Shucker I think he said he had an emotional relationship and mentioned it to those employees. Well, we all have, of course, a very emotional connection to every lost job or potentially lost workplace, and that's not exclusive to anyone in these assembly benches, I guess, no matter what political options it comes from. But when he was talking about how I think he said party, staffing and setting up personnel, I don't know if he meant to warn us that we wouldn't have a fit at the head of the Customs Administration that they had before the Kukuriku coalition got power. I'm not sure that this same gentleman had some big business, so he probably didn't prepare this whole story in a way that one part of the customs officers would lose their jobs in the new system and in the new structure, but he did other jobs in the meantime, and we all know that here. I therefore think that through any competition and at any time this party or this Kukuriku coalition, such a failure can hardly make a name for a person of such profile as the one who led the Customs Administration until the arrival of the Kukurik coalition to power. So much for that. Since people working in the Customs Administration certainly have significant experience in the process of control and financial but both goods and services. I think that in the new systems that are waiting for us to join the EU exactly these same controls at all levels, which means that we will have to increase because that is because in the EU administration in that area, I am deeply convinced that a good part of the quality personnel in that space will find a job for themselves. And that, of course, we, or the competent ministry, must react in time, too, is beyond any doubt. The HNS will support the bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37325	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37326	Thank you very much. Well, it's very convenient to listen when you don't have an argument, so you're going to hit under the belt. But what I'd like to say to the Customs Administration was highly professionally organized and another thing that someone 16, 17 months ago wasn't preparing people to lose their jobs and train them, retraining them is at least ridiculous. And the other thing is very interesting that these blows under the belt come from those who hire people by e-mails, who turn one company from one member of the administration to five, who may the accused members highly positioned etc. At least it's funny. And I think fellow Turin that I really didn't expect you to honestly say this kind of debate because you're simply making a man respond to the level he is. But what I told you as Customs Administration and Customs Administration employees had no inconsistencies, no connections with individuals' indifferences, no matter how much you liked it or not what the Customs Administration kept from it but that it was a fact. After all, Mr. Grabar can confirm that to you. But I say when there are no arguments then the blows below the belt are generally known from certain political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37327	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37328	I wouldn't talk about the punches under the belt, because your entire discussion that was from this pay phone was pretty much beneath the belt. And as for my party to which I belong, I think that if we were to compare, if we could even compare, and yes, I think HDZ is out of competition about all this you have referred as a criticism to the Croatian People's Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37329	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37330	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't crash my colleague Turina Đuric on anyone but I certainly expressed concern about a significant number of people who, God forbid, will not lose their jobs, but surely that it is legitimate to think about the existence of people. Because this number of 370,000 unemployed certainly wouldn't be good for another significant number. Well, I guess it's not enough to say that we're in the European Union now. Seven, so many people where they're going and how we don't care. But I have expressed another concern, namely, from the regional base, namely, our customs office of Koprivnica is therefore 2012. 1. The 7th attached, let's say, in a way, the Varazdin Customs Department. And now this new structure is coming back to another one. And here I'm afraid, again I'm afraid that it won't be because of the Varazdin County that you're coming from your strongest strength, I'm afraid there wouldn't be any more of that humanization again, not to come again, because I'm afraid there wouldn't be too many of those textings, that they would come back again, so that our sub-levels would remain broken and there, given that we have bad experience so far, I'm afraid of having bad experiences again. Here, that's what I wanted.../The speaker shut down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37331	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37332	Well, fellow Milinkovic, you're so afraid and so afraid that I have nothing to say in the replica except that it's best that we all run away with our heads, no matter how scared you are, no matter how scared you are. I just don't know why you weren't afraid, why you didn't think at the time when you had the opportunity to think about it and do something like that. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37333	And the last replica of my colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37334	Thank you, Vice President. I was offered the debate of my colleague Đuric when you spoke of employees and possible surpluses. In your discussion, you referred to the need for the former government to prepare and resolve the question of a possible surplus that will happen when Croatia enters the European Union. It's been almost a year and a half since the former government. There can't be a question of responsibility amnesty just to the former government in a year and a half, and I guess this power should have done something when we talk about protecting these people who have eventually declared themselves excess, that's one thing. And the other thing, clearly, is that today we would talk differently about knowing how many people are going to be extra, and in what time period these people will in some way be out of work and join this, this number of 370,000 unemployed in the employment office. And we're not going to ask one question. 7th immediately apply the Schengen Agreement. So there will also be a certain transitional period and it is clear that during this transitional period it would be good if we heard and received some information today and on the basis of such information justified and debated. This is how I think it's inappropriate to transfer all responsibility to the former government and not take part of the responsibility in the last year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37335	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37336	Look, buddy, you may not have heard everything I said. I said the whole job was... that we knew that we were entering the European Union in advance and that these processes were going to happen in these services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for you to prepare quality education, retraining, to direct people to certain educations takes time. I asked our ministry what had been done and if something had been done in this year on this particular matter. And I also drew attention to the fact that this was done in due time so that funds of pre-accession funds could be used for retraining and education of people for similar jobs to be opened in the future. This service isn't the only problem. We didn't do it for any more, for some systems that we knew were out of work. One of these is also shipbuilding unfortunately. So even for that part, we had even suggestions give people a think, shipbuilding will not work on the number of people entering the European Union, it will not be possible to work with regard to the competitiveness of these shipyards and the possibility of privatisation at all. And you're going to have to do something to open up the space to those frames. I hope the ministry has done something, and we'll probably get an answer. But I'm saying, all these things took a lot more time and I'm sure it was just a distraction, that the former government needed to do something, not just today, to express fear that these people would all be out of a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37337	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now colleagues and colleagues of information that we will be working tomorrow as Minister Jovanovic cannot come in the morning and we will change the agenda a little bit. First of all, we will discuss the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational programme Regional Competitiveness for Community assistance from pre-accession assistance instruments under the "regional development" component in Croatia. Then we'll move to point 20. The final draft of the Law amending and supplementing the Law of the Sea, we will continue the laws of the Ministry of Transport and then, when Col. Jovanovic appears, we will return to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-16-0.u37338	Proposal for a Customs Service Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 340. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, 1st proposal of the Customs Service Act and 2nd all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that with 103 votes in favour and 5 against a delayed conclusion.
