ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u35534	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. Before being transferred to the agenda, we will join in giving the oath of a new colleague. The oath shall be given in a way that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, when the representative shall be called up and be sworn in. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia, MP Damir Jelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u35535	I swear! Thank you, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u35536	Congratulations, colleague Jelic, on his sworn oath. I wish you success in carrying out this responsible and honorable representative's duty. And now we will begin to discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Management and Property, owned by the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 442; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. And you received reports at the session. ... And we've received a report that the Committee on Economy has discussed this proposal as well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds Professor Branko Grcic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46264	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs and MPs. We have before us the State Property Management Act. The law which is the first act after the adoption of the Property Management Strategy. I am pleased that the Committees, the Assembly Committees, supported mostly this Law. And that is why I express in some way the satisfaction that we can move into a serious process of restructuring the state property management system, above all, to make it more efficient, more transparent and to finally make the property a list of assets in one place and to know how much the state property is worth and how we actually know what we are managing it for the benefit of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. So, on 14 June this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period of 13th, 17th. By adopting this document, which was recently adopted in the Republic of Croatia, we have been given the opportunity or rather the green light to move forward with the implementation of this strategy by defining its key elements and, above all, the regulation of the legislative framework for governance and availability of state assets. That is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed and adopted this Law on governance and availability of state property, having in mind, above all, an increase in efficiency, as I have already said, state property management. Then the need to establish a single register of state property, thus fulfilling one of the basic preconditions for the state to know what it manages and which it has. Furthermore, it is of paramount importance that the management and availability of assets be institutionally strengthened through the implementation of a single transparent system of state-owned assets that will have significant impacts in the future. Of course, above all, the economic development and functioning of the state but indirectly and to the standard of Croatian citizens. It is estimated that the current state of this state of management of state property is not good. As already said, there is no publicly available register, it is suspended conditionally by all ministries, companies and institutions and very often is not known what the value of this property is. This Law paves the way for this register to be established as quickly and quality as possible by defining the legal obligation to fill and update that register and laying down infringement provisions for those who do not comply with those legal provisions. Already, this task defined by the new law indicates that we have a very serious job ahead of us, and the consequences of the current situation have so far shown that the losses in the system are precisely due to inefficient management. The difficulty in economic policy management is precisely at a time when state property is important for economic growth, then the immeasurable lost financial benefit of inefficient use of assets and intransparency of governance, the key problems that are trying to set up this law in another way and pave the way for all these aspects to experience certain improvements. I would particularly like to apostrophe one problem that follows us all the time when it comes to state property management, which is the problem of decision-making. So I must especially stress that the decision-making died in that segment and in that structure that we inherited and there is simply some internal fear of responsibility for decision making on the status and real estate and the companies in the Croatian State portfolio. What is one feeling of us taking responsibility for this segment is that everything seems to actually seem to be saying that something can't, and not how something can, of course always within the framework of legal regulations. But the state administration, the public administration, especially in such institutions that deal with such an important job simply has to find ways to put that property into office and make appropriate decisions. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in this time behind us, at least not in this year and a half, and we have indeed come across huge resistances and enormous brakes in the system that must have been in some way and crucial to get into this process decisively and quickly and to create frameworks to make the property function primarily in economic recovery and development and to help in some way at the level of units of local self-government, but also at the level of the state, to create a better environment for investment. What is also important is our high expectations from the start of the deep restructuring process of the Croatian economy, in this case those companies where the state shares. We, in that sense, have in some way divided companies into those of strategic interest and those who are not. Those who are of strategic interest will be thus managed and monitored, and those who are not will be subject to restructuring and then privatisation, so the sale of the part of the Croatian state because the state there has no strategic interest and we need to be absolutely clear there. So there's no privatisation of strategically important companies, at least not at this point because there's no need for that. We're dealing with a serious process of restructuring these companies, but that's why all those companies that are going to be in that second portfolio that's much bigger and wider than those companies, and that's what the previous government also perceived, simply have nothing to do in the government portfolio and they have to be placed on the market. But the problem, of course, is how much it's worth at this point, whether it's the state's interest to deal with it for 0 or I don't know any small money or it's an important effort to get into the restructuring phase and then sell it, through this process of restructuring that's nothing but a process that's already going through this framework of pre-banking agreements where these companies are also entering, to make maximum use of companies to put on healthy legs, to increase their value and then to sell and privatise them, that is, that the state solves these minority stakes in these companies. That's our strategy. So we're going to try to make it maximum and realize it through this new institutional framework that we're setting up. In particular, the paper adopted by this law, particularly in the organisational and institutional sense, is that the existing State Office for State Property Management remains a central body for the management and availability of state property, the coordination of the whole process, which also receives appropriate new functions. The existing Agency for State Property Management will be fully restructured at this time following the adoption of this law and the segments of the Agency will be separated into two essential segments. The part relating to real estate management will be taken over by the State Office for State Property Management, the government's special commission at the level of ministers will be established, consisting of the Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers who will take care of strategic decisions related to the management and availability of state properties. I'm stressing real estate. On the other hand, shares in companies that are of the strategic and special interest of the Croatian state, which were 69 so far, should, according to our assessment, be around 55, which will of course be determined by another special decision of the Government and this segment of governance would also be in the area of action and coordination of the State Office for State Property Management. So the state office plus the commission that will oversee the entire management and business process of strategic companies, so 55 of them are now standing. The process will be dynamicised, made more effective and through a special commission that will deal with all aspects, so management of these strategic companies. Therefore, this commission would consider plans and monitor the business of strategic companies, proposed to the government of the Republic of Croatia the leadership of these companies, members of the Supervisory Board, to consider restructuring plans which is very important because, in fact, the highest political level of coordination and the process of monitoring the restructuring of state-owned companies is being raised. We already have that situation, but not this way. So, we now have a special working group of the Economic Coordination, which in the job description has a monitoring of restructuring as well as the overall investment activities of state-owned companies. This commission institute would actually extend these activities to full monitoring of the business and continuous monitoring of the business of these companies. As for all those companies that I mentioned earlier, which are not of strategic interest or special interest of the Croatian state, they will remain at the new established Restructure and Sales Centre. Why sell and not privatise how so far it's been common because it's about selling and those remains to say the assets of the companies in that portfolio that are being restructured as long as or go into bankruptcy where certain assets, properties, etc. remain. Everything that should be monitored in some way. And when it comes to that part, it's a clean sale, it's not privatisation, it's privatized by companies. So we chose this kind of term that could be like this and that, but we figured this one might be more appropriate. Therefore, the centre would continue to be a specialised institution with the task of dynamicing the governance process with one priority goal, that the share of the state in such companies is continuously reduced and that, on the other hand, the state is somehow benefiting from this rather than the state pumping its debts continuously by pouring money into these inefficient and unrestructured companies. I'm not going to talk today about the amount that stands on the burden of a coma? Croatia's state and Croatian citizens, tax bonds which have accumulated the amount of support to these companies for years which have not been restructured and because of their inefficientness are solely a burden and, of course, most of them not all, but the largest part of them and the foundation of which is accumulated a single debt that will eventually be charged to the Croatian state. And that's one of the key problems of this whole story. We have to close that portfolio, we have to settle that debt. That's the key objective of this whole transformation. We had here now in the past situation that AUDIO as much as bothered with these companies and their dubiosis on the other hand had these properties that he was trying to close part of that debt. Unfortunately, however, it didn't work. We have to admit. So it didn't work out and the real estate revenues weren't even close to covering these companies' dubiosis. And we have an objective problem. Until yesterday, we were talking about health care with five billion duets to be remedied. I can only tell you that here is a debt even deeper, even deeper that will eventually come into the public debt of the state and increase it by a certain which is not the case now. That's what we're talking about, so we've got people to deal with. We have to sort it out in some way. And it is no accident that Minister Linic said in a cabinet session the other day that we must sell that property, one that is not of the strategic interest of the Croatian state, we must restructure, sell and resolve that debt. I'm not going to talk about any other government moves we want to do the same. Let's be realistic, so public finances and public debt are a problematic part of the functioning of the state, and if we don't make certain moves, if we don't make some key decisions, we're going to be in a problem, a serious problem. So we will not wait for Europe to solve for three, five, seven years within the European semester how it works in one, one or one of our neighbouring countries. Let's try our own strengths to solve our own problems. In this way, we will both be more independent and consistent in policymaking. Unfortunately, sometimes it hurts, it hurts. But that's the way it has to be. So the responsible policy must make appropriate decisions within the framework of the given parameters of the current situation, the situation in the environment of the problems that burden us. This story around, so this portfolio includes more than 500 companies. It's a huge job, but yesterday we had a very good meeting with the unions on the subject of pre-bank deals. I listened to my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance about the restructuring of the company and actually once again understood the dimension and weight of that problem. The people of the Ministry of Finance have entered deep into the fate of every company that has applied for a pre-determined settlement. There's 500 of these companies here, and I'm taking their hat off. I'm taking off their hat. Indeed, they are doing an extremely demanding and difficult job. Even the union's response to this was very positive, of course, with requests to address other very specific problems. However, we entered into one at the beginning uncertain, and now a job that will give the right results. But it is also certain that most companies will not be saved in a pre-determined settlement and will most likely end up in bankruptcy because it is simply the part of the company that can hardly achieve one serious perspective on the market after more than a year, a year and a half blocked, where they have executed the market, where they have executed employees etc., etc. They just fell apart. They're here somewhere, they're on the list, but they won't be able to pass the process successfully. But I say the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian government is working very seriously on it and has dealt with a huge problem. Why am I saying that? I'm saying it because it's going to go down with these 500 companies the same way. The part through you are already starting pre-fashion settlements, and part probably in some next phase restructuring of these companies. But we have to do it and we'll do it. The law regulates the way of donation of property to units of local self-government which are necessary for development, then the issue of unassembled property from privatisation, so some of the lags that remained, property from succession, rights to assign shares to Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War and other issues that have been regulated by laws that covered this area so far. It is also very important to point out that this restructuring process will reduce the total costs of the state property management system. So we have announced, according to some of our estimates, that of the 260 people that work in the system today in all the elements of that system, all the institutions with this restructuring experience a certain rationalisation. We expect framework organisational schemes to have about 200 people in this new system. So there are going to be some adjustments, rationalization, but what's the key tendency is to get people with quality and who are willing to deal with such serious problems in the field of state property management. Of course, more details will just be found in the law itself. You've probably already read it and seen it so of course I can't absorb it in the opening part. I invite you, of course, to a constructive debate. I say, I welcome the decisions of the committee that have already adopted this law, along with proposals and some nomotechnical but also some of the content that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already perceived and included in the amendments. There can only point out something that is important, important in terms of the transparency of the entire system that, in relation to the original proposal set out in the Law of the Administrative Council of the Restructure and Sales Centre, we will also include representatives of trade unions and representatives of business associations. And that's how I actually say open those processes to the general public, and that part of the public that's most interested. I say, even with some nomotechnic amendments, there are some adjustments in Article 40 that will certainly be discussed later and which have come to the HANFA proposal and, above all, the HANFAs in terms of harmonisation with some other legal acts. We have transposed earlier provisions, in the meantime there have been certain changes for which we did not take into account at the beginning and then we have now proposed this as an amendment. So here's what this is all about, and the debate will, of course, show your initiative whether there are other parts of the law that need to be corrected. Thank you very much, so much for the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46265	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we discuss today's session. Today, we should discuss points 8, 9 and 10. Since we have a significant number of registered colleagues and colleagues to discuss so that we don't work deep into the night I suggest we work without a break today so that you can plan your time. Thank you very much. And we move on to replicas. Ivan Shuker first. The reply to the replica of Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46267	Just a very short one. So when we talked about the lack of information on the property of the Croatian state, then I primarily thought about real estate. There is a rather difficult situation since property ownership has been scattered across very different institutions, as I said in the introduction, but we know all about companies, we also know about debt. So I don't want, today, to say for tactical reasons, to present these figures that I spoke about a little while ago in terms of total debt based on all these loans and assistance and support from Croatian companies that received previous years from the budget in fact yes. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46268	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46269	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vice President, you're saying in your introduction that what important paper this law makes, and you're saying that a state administration of state property management, a restructuring and sales centre is being set up, I would add two commissions of government one to manage strategic companies, and the second is the real estate commission. I wouldn't say that's news. This is how you use this model of this law to return to what was established in the Republic of Croatia in 2010. namely, you are now abolishing the Central Agency for State Property Management AUDIO, and this law re-establishs the central office and, on the other hand, the CERRP center for restructuring and sale. In 2010, we set up a central agency to enable this integrated management of state assets. I must say that I have not seen either from the reasoning of the law or from the State Property Management Strategy which led the Government to return to the system that was before and which was just and by the SDP when he was in opposition for a long time attacked by the fact that property management is not centralized in one place and thus does not allow exactly how you were then saying integral property management. So I wouldn't say that this is news, this is actually a return to a model that you just did at the time when you were in opposition calling it a failed, inefficient model. And now you're setting up the same model that was before the adoption of the applicable State Property Management Act. Clearly, I do not dispute the government to make such a turn, but I would expect that it would then, in its explanation, be truly explained which reasons led the government to now establish a system that is not news, which was three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46270	The reply to the replica of Vice President Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46271	It's also very short. Thank you for this comment. I can agree with you in that frame part. So the system will be as similar as it used to be, but the problem is that in the meantime this experiment with AUDIO has not yielded results. Therefore, in all this time of existence, Audio has neither offered an asset management strategy nor an asset plan nor established a register of state assets. So a lot of these goals haven't been realized and actually I would say otherwise they've even blocked a lot of activities in some way. Whether this has contributed to profound changes in Croatian society that have increased the responsibility of public institutions, and then, in some people, created this fear of making decisions that matter, we can guess. But basically they didn't do the job they were set up for. And today, even during this government, they haven't moved for a year and a half. You simply don't have an instrument, you don't have a simple instrument to move that story. If you don't want to shake the system a little bit and try to move something into that system without people getting a new dose of responsibility, and I'm especially saying that they're looking for ways to solve something, not stop the implementation of certain projects. I always stress with a reserve under the legal rules, so there is no political pressure to solve something by force but always by positive legal regulations. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46272	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46273	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you just said that the whole story needs to be moved. AUDIO hasn't started in a year and a half. I think it's a kind of capitulation, a system capitulation. As the Strategic Investments Act is evidence of capitulation in front of bureaucracy, so everything you've instructed comes down to the same. And this law suggests that all decisions are passed on to the government, that the state is increasingly centralised. I would compare it to, say, if we were to compare this economic aspect to the political aspect of state governance, then we would expect you to establish a board of directors of Croatia and what the Parliament will do to transfer all powers to certain committees. It's too much of us anyway, it's going to be cheaper, it's going to be more efficient because this House doesn't work the way you expect it to. So I think this is about one centralisation and one new name for the privatisation fund and another hub for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46274	The reply to the replica of Vice President Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46275	I mean big words. I can't say anything but to disagree that it can now be a framework for which corruption you're talking about. So this government has proved in these years and a half that it is working transparently, that it has introduced into the system of work of state institutions external members. I personally suggested it and did it. So, with us on these key investment working groups, for the business climate, for the EU funds there are people outside the government, from entrepreneurship associations, from craft chambers, etc., and listen to every conversation on any project. And that's one new dimension that might be a little bit talked about, but what really is the essence of this government's actions, transparency and openness. The process of pre-departure settlements that I'm talking about is happening on, in the large halls of the type of this assembly where all the believers who want to come, who are interested and listen to what will happen to the fate of the company that is being restructured. Where the Government's representatives in some way only moderate these meetings and then, on behalf of the State, they include where they should be involved both in terms of assistance and restructuring and in others. So how can you organize the process more transparently than that. So completely missed what you said, completely missed. But that, that first part you said, that's what I agree with. I agree with that. In some elements, we centralize processes. You know why? Well, because the situation in the country is what it is in the economy. So the state of emergency in the economy requires extraordinary measures. But I also want to tell you that this centralization doesn't go to the pinnacle of transparency and, or create any space for corruption. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46276	Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46277	Thank you. Well, Mr. Vice President, I have to admit I have a little bit of a problem with understanding, so I'd like to ask you to explain something to me. You said that we have 69 companies of strategic interest and that the company of strategic interest will not be sold but that the government's decision will most likely drop that number from 69 to 55. Now, given the fact that we're talking about the law, you're now talking about transparency, we've heard that we don't have criteria or any indicators that we can compare which companies are good, which are bad, unfortunately. I would only ask you to answer me, so on which basis, if we are talking about transparency, the government can go beyond strategy and above the law to decide how much we will reduce it and how much we will be able to sell it to the company by decision of the Government because we have decided that they, or have decided that they are not of strategic interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46278	The reply to the replica of Vice President Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46279	So, I'd be happy to answer that. These are companies such as Croatian Roads, Croatian highways, Zagreb-Macelj highways, Rijeka-Zagreb highways,... and HH infrastructure,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the transmitters and connections of Croatian air navigation control, HEP, PLINACRO and JANAF, you can see that these are all the companies that deserve to be on that list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were, for example, our shipyards. So one process that lasted and now has been completed and where the shipyards were, therefore, their privatisation of the conditions for membership in the European Union. Well, of course that problem was solved by this government and that these companies are no longer on that list. There are still a few of these examples. I am also in the opening part of what you can check out from the stenogram so at the beginning of this company are the strategic interest of this country and will not behave with them in a way to sell at all costs. No, I made that very clear, but that will take care of the fate of these companies. But I also said in the introduction that I did not rule out the possibility that at some stage later some of these companies would be partly offered on the market. And that's clear. That's quite clear. Of some elements, therefore, some members of the Croatian railways so former holding companies now separated. Or I don't know any elements of the group,... groups and so on. [[You don't understand a word.]] Either I'm not saying there's a Petrochemy or I don't know, here, so it won't close the possibility that at some point a strategic partner will be sought to ensure the restructuring and efficiency of these companies. Are we satisfied at this moment with Petrokemia? Well, of course not. The company produces losses, the price of gas determines these losses, the situation on the gas market will change, we may succeed in future to bring it to the level that this company works successfully And maybe at some point [[Thank you very much.]] and request the participation of a strategic partner to improve the business conditions of the company and to preserve it perhaps in the majority state ownership or at least with the control package. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, we always leave those options.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46280	Thank you very much. Take care of the weather. Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46281	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said if we don't make some serious moves, we're gonna get in serious trouble. And we're already in serious trouble even more serious than we were. Just because they didn't make any serious moves. And you said one reason for this is the ineffectiveness of AUDI, the Agency for the Management of State Property. And you don't seem to have any influence on them, that they're passive, that they're almost resisting. Well, it's like the government has no contact with that agency. The Agency's report on the work shows that the Administrative Council is made up of the Deputy Prime Minister and four ministers. Well, then you're actually calling the Deputy Prime Minister and four ministers so they don't do their job. And you've been president of the Board of Directors of AUDI for seven days, and I don't know what the reason is for you to be just seven days, but it can't be solved by the establishment of new agencies and that's instead of one two. That way, the problem will not be solved, but to concentrate power and that this is a unique case for the head of one agency to be president of another agency's board of directors, it's against nature. Multiplying agencies can't lead to any efficiency. As for the register, the register exists in AUDI and they already appear on the website entered 325839 items, but the ministries do not want to supply data. And you're asking another 5 million kuna to come up with something that already exists with its own forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46282	Thank you. And Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46283	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46284	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46285	... The law, and if you are already ignoring parliamentary MPs when they talk about the need to adopt the urgent procedure of the law, you should have read the report on the procedures for the adoption of the law... of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, where it concerns the fact that most of the laws are adopted by an urgent procedure, that the very essence of parliamentaryism is violated, and that such practice defies the meaning of the democratic procedure and the obligation to respect them and enables us to have a public debate. [[Specially enabled.]] Here we're not talking about 1,000, 2000 or 5000 square meters of land and in some successful, failed company. Here we are talking about the wealth of the Republic of Croatia and we are talking about how some agency is successful, unsuccessful, whether it justifies its becoming or does not justify its existence. I responsibly argue that this law is too small and too important to be passed by emergency procedure, and also dangerous and I agree with Mr Vuksic when you read Article 13 and compare it with the law so far. The State Office is required until 31 March of the current year to submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a report on the implementation of... management for the previous year, that is good. But the current law also states, and you deleted it in this law because this is a copy-pass, that the report on the implementation of the plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia points to the Parliament for adoption. There's no such thing here in this law. When we take into account all the laws that we have passed in an emergency procedure, and this last week and strategic investment and business areas, you are building here that the central state office will give an opinion and consent to the spatial plans of the business zones of local self-government units. We're centralizing the state even more, we're making it impossible for local self-government units to develop their own space, and you can't say that AUDI wasn't effective...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46286	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you. Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46287	Well, yes, we are relatively brief, but we clearly underline what is the reason we are looking for an emergency procedure, simply because the Croatian Parliament ends the session with this week and as far as I understand it, it continues to work. The Croatian government is likely to have an annual vacation between 1st and 15th, and that is an important difference. We have to work all this time, we can't wait. If we wait for September 20th and beyond for the second round of debate, I don't know where we're going, so when we're going to take this serious step in implementing a strategy that's been led by a broad debate. One of the key elements of this strategy was adaptation to the property management system. We don't have time to wait and our assessment was that perhaps at this point is the best way out that before the break for the Croatian Parliament we solve this and that you give the Government this one, two summer months to complete the system and that in the autumn we can normally work. There's no other reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46288	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a colleague, Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46289	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what Mr. Vice-President of the Government said one sentence, we have to work, so we're passing an emergency procedure of this law, but he just said that a year and a half of the day nothing has been done, so a year and a half of it hasn't been done because when it's done, there's probably something to be done. And this law is full of controversy. As your answer to my finding that this law is a possible hub of corruption, I simply don't understand it. Which is why, because when the Kukuriku coalition came to power, corruption was cut off by a knife, no more corruption. No, there's corruption, it's just not about corruption, it's not about corruption. No more that zero point of corruption, no more, no more tolerance, zero tolerance for corruption. Corruption is no longer spoken of in public, the media does not write about corruption as if we have become immediately honest society. This law is a possible hub of corruption because of what is being put in place, and I'm going to say about it in the hands of one body, one man's enormous power, huge power, absolute power, absolutely corrupt, at least we know it. At the very beginning, why are we bringing in an emergency procedure? This is too important a law to be passed by an emergency procedure. The public has been left for a full six days, a full six-day debate on such important things is enough to discuss, enough to meet the law, enough clubs to prepare the law and is likely enough for a better discussion. Does anyone in this House ever look for a quality debate from the government? Obviously not, because we don't respect opinions and every comment we make and every attitude we have is being welcomed on the knife as something that isn't welcome. If the arguments of the public not only do not want to be respected but they do not want to be heard or heard, because it is this fact that only six days for discussion are left, then this, indeed democratic act that we are now performing here in the Croatian Assembly is a clear farce. It will take place on Friday or Monday or Saturday when we will vote the last day, and that has already decided everything inside the law. Even though today we are talking about the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because the property owned by the Republic of Croatia is also the property of Croatian citizens, the government treats it as a farce, as according to the chamovina, as with grandfatherhood. So that's why Kukuriku coalition or Zoran Milanovic or Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic decided to entrust the management of this property to one person – the head of the State Office for State Property Management, DUUDI we call it short. Actually, it's his shortcut, which is the new name of the Privatisation Fund. In this way, the head of the office becomes one of the most important, most powerful in Croatia, has the most potential to influence the greatest Croatian values by making the management and availability of state-owned assets fully centralized and this pillar is set, in fact, which is the purest flossularization of ownership and management as stated in the law, decentralisation of use. Yes, it will be decentralised to use only in a way. When so much power is concentrated in the hands of only one man, even if for the head of the DUUDI hired Chuck Norris, there is room for various manipulations and corruption as I said at the very beginning, the more the law in Article 6 of the public gives rise not only to all the most important decisions in the management and availability of state property, and to the keeping of a register of state property being made by one man. Who determines what is most important and who determines and who is the most important? The law must state that all information is published, and it says that only the most important decisions will be made. That is why not all information is published when we are obliged to publish all information in the Information Access Act. So the law should state that all information on state property management and decisions is published. The powers of the State Office of State Property Management are such that we can rightly ask ourselves why we have a government in the first place, and why do we even have ministers? Why do we have government vice presidents when this one center of economic power can do all this without any control? Who are these people who will be in power and real influence over the prime minister, who will be above, for example, the present vice-president of the Greek government. And so far, we've heard a line from Mr. Shucker and so far, or I don't know who's been saying I'm sorry, and AUDIO has people sitting at the top of the government who are at the top of the government and they're sitting there. Now that all of a sudden these same people are going to be effective and they're going to manage the state property well, and so far just because it's called differently and what the structure of the body is different is suddenly going to become poor, good managers. The question is, if these people are going to be above Milanovic and Greece, it means they are more capable, they are more efficient. The question is, where are these people hiding, who are these people, how did the government find them? For example, which one will Todorićev or Tedeschiev, the manager of Croatian tycoon offices, replace with the Office of State Office for State Property Management? Will that work for tens of thousands of kunas? It is certain that there are capable people in Croatia. If he will then I suppose he will have some other interest as he had suggested we have these events at the end of the term and after leaving the CNB and the former governor of other interests. Great bosses reward their officers with great money wherever they are at the moment and at whatever work they serve faithfully. If he does not work in the state office, the most capable managers will do the most loyal and similar thing that convinces us and practice. We know that it assured us that state-owned companies would become a business Nucleus, that state-owned companies would start an economy in Croatia, an economy. And what happened? The ministers themselves, the Prime Minister, the vice-presidents of the government, we admitted we were wrong, we put the wrong people, and they swore it was the right people when we warned that people with these biographies, so party aparacetists couldn't rule state-owned companies then said we were politicians, as this discussion is likely to be because it warns of problems in the law to characterise politically. Almighty DOUDI's Chuck Norris will be able to call it, although he doesn't need it because of all his abilities, establishing a commission. What will the committees do? They will draw up draft implementing rules for these laws. Who determines how the commission works? The chief. That's the chieftain, the all-powerful chief. Will the members of the commission work for free? He won't, he'll get a fee. How much is that fee? We don't know that clearly here. He doesn't even know I believe Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, he doesn't know I'm convinced either, Mr. Milanovic, but he knows the president. It's that powerful one, so the president has everything in his hands. By what criteria will the Chairman set fees for the members of the commission? By your own standards. Because the criteria aren't clear. The people who will be elected by the head, who will be chosen by the head of the people? Normally people of trust, people close to the coalition in power, people who will unspeakably implement the Kukuriku coalition policy or one of its powers. When this law is adopted and adopted, no one at all doubts that it will not be adopted on Friday or Saturday or Monday, except that property in state property can be donated to local and regional self-government units, state-owned enterprises as before said by the Vice-President of the Government of Greece and real estate institutions can also be donated to other natural and legal persons if the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Committee for Real Estates, finds that the donation, for example, to one of the Croatian tycoons in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The government can donate real estate to natural and legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia if these donations promote economic progress, social well-being and concern for the economic development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And as the former Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic said not long ago, the quote is that, the interest of Ivica Todorovic is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Which is not true. Of course that's not gonna happen because the government is still in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia. And from now on, the interest of the Republic will be predominant for all citizens of the Republic to be taken care of. So expect that the government will donate all its empty apartments to its citizens in order to be taken care of and happy and to be satisfied with the interest of the Republic of Croatia. A special story is the Register of State Property. It needs to be done as soon as possible as any government promises and nothing is done. All governments have so far capitulated in front of red tape, which the Strategic Investment Act also testifies about. What state services should do from now on will be done directly by the Government. Is that an interest in the Republic of Croatia? Is it the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have investors on a building permit waiting several years and to finally be sent to rush the issue of the permit by ministers themselves? Why isn't the state apparatus working? Which is why we're skipping, even the first Deputy Prime Minister when he was still on duty, we lost the battle with red tape. And now we're passing special laws to bypass red tape, and bureaucracy will continue to do business of disabling investment in the Republic of Croatia. This law will probably come into force in 10 days. And then the State Office will take over from the State Property Management Agency all workers, office equipment, documentation and other means of work. Former agency workers are now becoming civil servants. That's what this law predicts. But not the Labour Act that AUDI employees are employed by. By unilateral decision, these workers cannot become civil servants, especially if they are prevented from enjoying acquired rights. Once again, there will be courts, and again another government will pay huge fees for wrong moves and decisions. DUUDI will spend part of the money and the state budget we hear on the arrangement of inadequate space on DOJMAN Street, a space that has an enormous once prestigious office for the president. In this office, I remind myself, the powers of the Croatian Spirit Cathedral Antun Vrdoljak, Ivica Mudrinic, Mirko Galic, Justice Minister Orsat Milenić. Although AUDI and DUDI workers have both furniture and computers and cars will be purchased, we have received information, new furniture, computers, new cars. Well, I don't suppose the mayor's gonna drive downtown in Djmanov, the prestigious Djman's, prestigious old car office, and sit in the old chair. According to the speed of human change, the head of staff may not even be able to adjust the chair to his body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46290	We're moving on to replicas. Igor Radjenović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46291	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm always in a dilemma about whether or not to replicate my colleague Vuksic because the question is how much it all really makes sense, but good. In the good part, I say colleague Vuksic was talking about the State Property Management Strategy, he was talking about some other laws, and this law is actually just a derivative of what we all voted here together with practical support from almost all clubs, so the State Property Management Strategy, which is assessed by good and quality, good cut, and actually this law is a product of all that. But why did I answer the line? You based your discussion on the indescribable and unlimited power of that body that exists today, so the State Office for the Management of State Property and its first man. You even compared it to Chuck Norris, three, four times you mentioned it. You talked about it being above Milanovic, above Greece, etc., etc. I have to admit it's effective. It's effective when you say it at the pay phone to those rare citizens who watch it. It'll be effective when they transfer our televisions to the journal, but it's just not true. A colleague, Vuksic, is simply not true. Only Article 54 clearly speaks of how state property will be available, who has any authority. So, just like so far, the director has up to a million kuna, all decisions from one million to 100 million kuna are made by a commission consisting of the Deputy Prime Minister of Greece, Minister of Justice, Finance, Construction, Agriculture, Tourism and Defence. We heard... some addition but now I'm not going into it, so nothing's going to happen intransparent and nonexistent. All decisions over 100 million kuna will be made by the government, I simply say it's not unusual but you were saying something, I have to admit to the media effectively that it doesn't really say in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46292	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46293	A colleague of Radjenovic was told shortly before by Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greekic that for a year and a half he could not find a model of how to influence AUDIO even though he was sitting there by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Government, the commission will also have a vice-president and minister of the government and if these same people did not have AUDIO on how they would have this new organisation on the commission to influence this powerful man. First of all, if you think I've been contradictory, listen to what you've just said and what's been done for a year and a half, and now you should trust me after a year and a half of useless effort that now as 1.9. as a hand taken away all the problems and now a new organisational scheme will help adequately manage state property. We just don't believe it. And this wasn't so it would be effective and it would be effective for the media, but because of that, I warned about the problems that would arise, that in the way I do, and not in your way. And I'm sure I'd never choose such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46294	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46295	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, you have made it quite clear that this law is contradictory of the strategy as the first available state property, in which it is clearly said that there is no donation. While in this law the donation is first of all from forms which can be used in the management and availability of state property. The same blockage of a year and a half that nothing concrete has been done in AUDIO makes it clear that legal assumptions and compliance with the state's attorney's office and with all the legal norms that we have in today's judicial system must be realized. Likewise, this law, which is in the emergency procedure of the Ministry of Justice, has made observations on pages 8 that have neither been heard nor considered nor included in this law. You have therefore well concluded that it is most likely a good hub and the possibility of future corruption. The same debt that exists in AUDIO, which will be transferred to some new 3 billion kuna, and with a new loan that wants to cover the holes or needs of a state-owned company that is sought and no bank will give it, it also speaks of a new catastrophic state property situation, when we conclude that the state property is used by some officials at 7 kunas flying on Brijuni, using other privileges such as today's Vice-President of the Parliament's former parliamentary representative, present-day minister and so on, we can know what it is that one person will be able to share the property and also the services of that property as it is desired by whom.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46296	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46297	Dear counterpart Djakic, when you mentioned the State Property Management Strategy, I only need to clarify one misunderstanding here, before the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Grcic said that there are 69 companies of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia and that it will be reduced to 55, but in the strategy it says 27 and we adopted it and probably the Parliament adopted it. Yes, the strategy and this law that we're talking about today are being undermined in some things and this particular thing about donations. It will be donated by real estate according to vague criteria and certainly that when people do so narrowly round that there are always doubts when there are no real criteria and when it is said in one of the articles that the most important information will be published transparently. And who will determine which ones are most important, what is the most important information? It is easy for the president to say that information about someone being gifted is not important because it is not strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia to know who was given what. Therefore, this law is above all not good and for the law it took two readings, it was necessary to respect the remarks, it was necessary to enable a broad public debate and then it would certainly all of these doubts which I was saying justified the possibility of some abuses. No one is saying that this government is corrupt or that some ministers are corrupt, but it allows a narrow circle of people to decide. And before I mentioned that absolute power corrupts and it's proven not only in our society in all societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46298	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46299	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your discussion, you mentioned apartments, and then you also mention these donations specifically to local self-government units. I don't know if you know that there's currently a process of taking apartments to units of local self-government by the state, along with tenants, with a protected rent, that the apartments that were given once in the 1990s to manage the local self-government with protected tenants and tenants are now being transferred to the state. I guess in this second part we'll get that back. I don't mind giving it to local self-government what you said yourself, but there must be clear rules. And what you said about this interesting character of our Chuck Norris series is not the head of all real estate in Croatia since Chuck Norris. Chuck Norris will need to control everything that would be done because he has such a role as to investigate what's going on. He should actually be needed later. Because if we really wanted real transparency, if we really wanted to see what was going on, then in this article 54, maybe the Croatian Parliament should be in some item as well as the body chosen by Croatian citizens directly in the elections so that the Parliament can discuss these reports and know exactly what is going on and not that we can just read somewhere as it is assigned to, as it is sold to whom it is sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46300	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46301	Here's a colleague when you mentioned Chuck Norris. Now I'm going to tell you that he made a mistake once, and that's when he thought he was wrong. All the time, all governments swear to decentralisation. It is this law that proves that there is nothing of decentralisation, simply said in the Law that use will be used to decentralisation. However, all decisions are centralised. Before the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Greek said that we would centralize because we are in a difficult economic situation. It is absolutely certain that it is clear and it is a fact that the economic situation in which we are today is not only the consequence of the government's doing but many governments before that that did not do what they needed, the global crisis and all this. However, this will not be improved by eliminating transparency, it will not be improved by a way to concentrate power in as small a circle of people as possible. And those people who are usually under party control. So they're similar. Experts will never be able to control themselves because they know how to do their job and will not entirely comply with political pressures and political decisions. That's why we experts can't even get into state-owned companies, state-owned companies or some of the agencies because they won't work for small money and they won't work and when they are enthusiasts they won't work under political pressure because they don't actually have any real power that they should have to manage state-owned property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46302	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46303	You're right when you talk about an obligation or an obligation to pass a law like this by an emergency procedure. I repeat, there is no valid reason for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Especially because of the enormous value of this nation and country's wealth. When we talk about the mechanism and the time period of waiting for the public, the implementation of the public debate does not stand either. You have a state agency, you have a tool in your hands, you manage it, you have those 225 people as much as you said and how many you're going to cut by 25 to 200. Even in the current law, you have expelled from this Act that data on the objectives achieved are no longer published on the web pages of the agencies, then the future state administration office and state property. And when we talk about the agency not working or that the State Office for State Property Management worked badly either this good or the bad one, I've been the one who for 10 years... I am aware of the problems with which all these people are located with thousands of demands from local self-government units, from companies and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that this law does not lead to anything good, when everything is centralized, when everything is decided with one place. And when we connect and return to the Strategic Investments Act, which proposes a provision determining that land owned by a state can be sold to an investor without a public tender at the estimated value of a court witch if that is decided at the top. When we see that it has been rejected that this Report of the State Future Agency is being discussed, the Report is being adopted at the Croatian Assembly, when we see everything that is written here and the selection of candidates for members and presidents of company management can either be done through a public tender or through a specialised agency in which all these people will be appointed. The whole line of this law is simply not good, It requires a broad public debate and I am very interested in what legal experts will say at every point in this law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46304	Thank you very much. Please make sure the replica lasts 2 minutes, response to replica 2 minutes. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46305	Dear counterpart Klaric, yes, in a year and a half, most of the laws were passed by emergency procedure. And now to see these results of these emergency procedures, people would say, okay. The government started working, seriously thinking, seriously acting. However, the results of these emergency procedures are not seen. Even so, many laws that were passed by emergency procedure were corrected in the course of a very brief debate, coming from the government several dozen amendments. However, the question is why this law was waiting until the last minute. Until the last week. Which is why Croatian laborers warned about the strategy. You are also well aware that this is why we have filed an action for not having a strategy, which started privatising strategic companies without a strategy that is legally prescribed to be adopted before it begins to privatise, say, the Croatian Post Office or Croatian Insurance. This was to be done in the first six months and certainly that it would be much easier for the government today to do what it intends to do since autumn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46306	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46307	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vuksic spoke of a short time of public debate and that it is not good to pass such laws by emergency procedure. I have to say that the public debate is still going on. If you look at the government's website, you will see that even though the Government adopted this Bill proposal at the government held on 4 July, consultation with the public lasts until July 10th. How pointless is that? They bring up a public consultation by July 10th. When you spoke about the members of the commission and the board of directors of the AUDI, as well as the Committee of the Government for the Management of Strategic Trade Companies, and the Committee of the Government of Real Estate Management, as provided for by this proposal, the Ministers and Vice-Presidents, who are sitting in the AUDI Board. Will the new institution or new street from Luciceva in Djezmanovo or new furniture and new chair increase the efficiency of these same people? And in the light of the bill's proposal, you talked about both cars and costs, in the explanation of the bill's proposal in the sources of the necessary means to implement the law, half the page is listed, but in the text that was in the Government is on page and on page and exactly there says that new cars will be purchased and contracts will be terminated with all the workers in AUDI and that space will be purchased in Djezmanovje 12 euros, but it was thrown on the way from Mark's Square until the proposal is adopted in the Assembly. At just 50 meters, a page of that text was lost because it's not convenient for us to see it here in the assembly room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46308	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46309	Dear colleague Maric, yes, it is not good, perhaps because of this he hastily passed this law which is not good for the public to know all the segments of this law. Mostly public consultation, we are guilty, did not bear fruit in other laws that were in two readings because the word and advice of the public are not respected or respected very rarely, so they are rational. What you were saying about the two committees that will also be sitting in the same people, so those people who haven't been able to influence the efficiency of AUDI for a year and a half now since autumn with the new law will be different, everything will be different from autumn. I'll tell you the truth, I want everything to be different than fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46310	And Nadica Jelash, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46311	I thank the esteemed vice president. Col. Vuksic, you said in your debate that the government or state treats state property as far as the front, that I am not talking about Chuck Norris whose mention is, so mentioning the names of such characters in such a serious context when talking about the fate of state property and in such a serious place as the state parliament is indeed and inappropriately, I would say also regurgitally. So the opposition has a real right to criticise, but it's just amazing how much your need to blacken everything up in advance, to devalue every attempt by the government to impose order, to stop specifically in this case the property of this state, to put it into operation, so that this property is not a government cost but a source of solid income. So for 20 years, none of the previous governments have even been able to identify that state property, let alone establish its market value. The Privatisation Fund mismanaged the property, and it came down to the fact that the government budgets, so taxpayers' money on force kept state-owned companies alive who were actually dead. So in an extremely short time, this government has done a lot of work on state property, and that's actually proof that it doesn't refer to state property like you said. I'm asking you to give me time for this government to do a job on that property, and then criticise if you're not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46312	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46313	Yes, we've been taught by the authorities to deny us the right to criticism and the style we speak. First of all, colleagues, it's unserious to treat state property in this way. The last week of this important law without a public debate by urgent procedure you bring to the Croatian Parliament, it is a sin, not a serious one. It's a sin. You treat the state property like it's a farce, and that's why I said it. You don't have the right to do that, it's not your property, it's not SDP's, HNS's and other coalition partners' property, it's government property. And for a year and a half you didn't do anything on that list, we had to warn you, Mr. Lesar filed a complaint about the privatisation of Croatia's insurance and the Croatian Post Office, and for that you had no legal basis and you will talk about seriousness. Get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46314	Let's put the tension down a little bit. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the club of independent agents...... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Damir Cain, replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46315	Yes, there should be a certain change in AUDI, but not only by bringing new people but also by going with a new law that will begin to guarantee a whole new relationship. We all know that this system has simply been ineffective and that AUDI has, among other things, paralyzed the system and something needs to change. But I didn't answer for this, I answered for another sentence you mentioned, that no one with 30 or 40 thousand kunas I'll say from these big companies, the richest companies come to state companies or those institutions for 12, 14 or 16 thousand kuna, and we see that they're coming. Not because state-owned companies have the safest salary, and even where it stands, it means in that public sector, but because they agree with you, the transitional business task. But you did mention some people. Imagine managing what I now know of Croatian highways with 12, 13 or 14 thousand people when you have to fire I don't know how many hundreds of employees or one Croatian radio. But why am I saying that, because many but not on behalf of this government, those former governments meant in the name of the government they privatized both banks and the telecommunications sector and then ended up as directors in these new privatized systems taken over by foreigners. And I think it's kind of illegal to do that. You cannot carry out the privatisation procedure for this government on behalf of this government, and in the end, the leadership chamber as once spoken ends up in that or this new team mainly among these new foreigners who take over Croatian companies. I think we're in the same position here somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46316	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46317	Dear colleague Cain, I agree with many who have worked in state companies who have prepared themselves for private business and we know these cases of the most successful, say a man who receives one average Croatian salary a day and is still an adviser to the government for the economy and president of the state. And I agree with you that this should be banned by law, because many countries have the laws built on that people who run certain companies for several years can't deal with the same or similar business, not to enter a private company, prepare the ground, then privatise the company and become billionaires.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46318	And now, on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, time will be shared by colleagues Damir Kain and Ivan Grubisic. Comrade Grubisic first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46319	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Ministers and Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. The club of independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament will support the adoption of this law by respecting the reasons presented by the minister himself, that it is necessary to intervene in this matter in order not to waste time. But assuming the minister also said that this law is open, that he accepts amendments and criticism that will be presented here as I agree. So it's not take or leave, but it's open debate to contribute to the improvement of this law. That it was necessary to adopt the Law on State Property Management, it should have long ago been done for the state to know what it owns as well as local administration and self-government units. There is one lawlessness, one volunteerism entrusted to certain people who manage state property, real estate, business premises according to their chef and their own interests. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law, to lay down the rules of the game. But what I would like to point out is that what we're feeling is the handicap of both our parliamentary representatives and the people who work in agencies and commissions, and that's without a change of consciousness in man and regardless of the professional equipment that is needed, but we know that the most professional people can also be morally highly questionable people. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a sense of personal responsibility for the common good, to emphasize it, and if we have a man who has developed these elements of ethics and morality within himself, then we can place him anywhere and everything will go well. If we only have experts in certain areas, and they are necessary and there is no such recognizable dimension of ethics, justice, solidarity, then these changes will be nothing or will be a very weak effect. We change structures, we don't change people, and that's the basic problem. We need to change the carriers, and these are people to change the structures. Without change of people and their consciousness and their responsibilities, the changes in the law itself will be technical and will not bring about the expected results that Croatian citizens expect. I appeal to colleagues and colleagues that those who in a special way are a profession such as lawyers, economists, managers, to make their contribution to improving this law through certain amendments, to accept the law, that the government is working on it without expecting effective and good changes overnight, because the process of building a man as a moral person does not last long. I know how to repeat it often only as long as we're alive. We need education, we need different thinking, we need people with ethics and morality, so any job or duty to trust them will be fine. Until we work on ourselves, our profiling morale and ethics of these laws will be just a dead letter on paper. They'll get the impression that we're working, that we've spent so much time, but the effect won't be. We should have patience with this. I am not rooting for either side, opposition or party in power, but I am appealing to us all to work on our own, moral and ethical profiling, and then anyone to get a certain duty let's be sure if this is developed with him and become his habitat will be fine. If not, no matter what the structure changes, everything will be like it was or I'm afraid even worse. Here's the first part of the debate, and the second part of this debate will be taken by colleague Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46320	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So we see in this bill that as many as 35 laws that are in force today speak of the availability of state property. So it would be logical, so if we had on one side of those 35 laws that all of this somehow tried to unite, let alone "concentrate" property under quotes in one place. We need it if nothing else that we can just follow, that state property can be put into operation the next day. Although I would be the happiest if as much of this property as possible would be left to manage the local self-government, even though it was happening there at the very least to be a mildly strange thing. I also think that what the state can't fertilize, I mean what's both state and local self-government in some way dead capital, from a series of military properties and beyond, I don't know, I don't know, that I'm not just picking up the rest of it, I just need to put it into office as soon as possible. On page 4, but later, it is also being discussed that such a legal solution was incomplete, and therefore the new law in Article 4 established a significantly wider range of forms of property owned by the Republic of Croatia than agricultural land, tourist, other construction land, maritime goods, ports, forests, water, public goods, water goods, water buildings, oil beds, natural gas, highways, railways, bridges, and that I am simply not listing it. Clearly, what we are probably most interested in at this point is, for example, what we are most interested in. The fate of the highway, but also the fate of the Commercial Court in Zagreb, means in the case of "Franak" or "Switzerac" how it will affect not only the citizens but also those small companies that are in some way excluded from the verdict. Mr. Grcic spoke of a state of emergency in an economy that requires me to express myself in this way. The vice-president of the government said that the vis-a-vis restructuring of certain companies' public debt, the Republic of Croatia, is approaching the 70% rate if not more GDP. He mentioned it or he asked himself how many billion, say, in the last eight years of the rehabilitated shipbuilding? I think it's a $28 billion figure. More than 30 billion kuna has been invested in agriculture through incentives over the last eight years. Not to mention these other public enterprises, not to mention the railroad, not to mention the roads, etc. He mentioned that this law, in some ways, encodes nearly 500 companies, that many of these companies are currently covered by a pre-fashion deal but will also certainly end up in bankruptcy. Well, when that's the case with state-owned enterprises, which is only with those small private companies, etc., etc. As I somehow understood the vice president of the government between the lines, so I experienced it, he also talked about the monetization of the railways. In some ways, he mentioned other privatisations, from Croatia's insurance, the Post Office that will most likely happen during this or next year. It's clear what I'm interested in, too, is the fate of agricultural land. Why was that sold out? I think this is a legal solution to remanufacturing the state after everything that's happened in some parts of the area where the meter was sold for the equivalent of one cigarette just a good solution. Because you can't buy one square for one kuna, then urbanize, resell for 50 or 100 euros. In fact, it's like one of those "banditism" quotes. This is about, among other things, the fate of tourist land. Indeed, when at least it will be written down and adequately approached. The banks that were rescheduled and then sold to us were quite burdened with this "Franak" case, which is the question of how it will eventually be resolved. It's interesting, someone here mentioned protected tenants, but I'm going to mention another category in the context of this law. When will the status of those protected tenants living in the so-called so-called "mothers" be resolved? National, not so-called. but nationalized apartments and so on are threatened with the uncertainty of survival in these same apartments. I agree that confiscation of property during ex-Yugoslavia through the form of nationalization of real owners is one state institutional primitiveism, that I don't use different harder terms, but what happens to protected tenants today is nothing less than that. Article 18 is also interesting in this regard. – apartment and business space fund, property seized by criminal act and violation. Absolutely. However, I want to mention here several cases of people who spent 4, 5, 6 years in Milosevic's prisons, who were all tried as JNA officers for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and after they were released from prison, they actually had no place to go back and they were left without their apartments and even in the working books of that time they spent working so they can't make a pension. It's that group about Mr. Maric, Mr. Horaček who got an apartment in Pula in Mrs. Kosor's office, I know we talked about it all the time. I recently heard from another colleague from Labin who had lost his apartment in Sibenik, not only of the apartment, but also of the time he spent working from '72 to '93, or I don't know of the fourth year, after which he was tried for 5 or 6 years and spent in these Milosevic prisons. I think we need to clear this up. Here in this law is spoken among other things and cca 20 million squares of tourist land. it must remain a permanent property of the Republic of Croatia. It is clearly possible to give it in a concession, to establish the right to build. Let it be put into service as soon as possible but not sell. These big systems keep coming out, this poor thing can't be helped. What about non-depreciation, like conversion? Is that lost as some kind of election promise? Probably, but let's let it go now. Article 67 talks on the granting of shares to Croatian wartime wartime disabled people from the Homeland War and family members of the dead or imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I'm glad they're entitled to that "revelation" because this particular category of disabled people is definitely worth it. All in all right here in front of us we have a new law that should, in a different way, make it possible to manage national property more effectively. If that happens then everything will be fine, if it doesn't, we'll have unused one dead capital that won't serve anyone. We'll argue with each other, we'll change the administration of these bodies, we'll pollemize and the country'll "stangnate". I think that this should be avoided and that this law is one attempt at precisely one more functional consideration and management of national property. If this happens in these exceptional circumstances as mentioned by the Vice-President of the Government who require extraordinary measures, then if that happens, it will be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46321	Thank you. We are now going to the replicas to show colleagues Grubisic, the replica has Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46322	Your Honor, Madam President. You said that this law should be passed with certain rules of the game and then you started on ethics and morals, etc. So this law is passed by the rules of the game that the government has put us in a position to give the government the right to sell, sell out state property in five days without two readings, that's what they want. In my opinion, it's unethical and immoral. And you support this unethical way of working and this immorality because you trust the Prime Minister to save it this summer because he wants the government to have a job so he wants to pass this law quickly today. It would be to believe that, it would be to pay a tax on fools. And I'm not a fool to pay that tax. The government brings it in for pragmatic reasons... /The speaker excluded./...not morally. This is what the government has done on purpose, Mr. Grubisic, or you do not understand or agree to the unethical and immoral process and the procedure for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46323	Reply to replica Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46324	I'm sorry to find out but I don't function at the level of MP Marasovic and I have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46325	And now we'll move on to the replicas of our fellow Caine's exposure. Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46326	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleague Cain. Among other things, here's what you said through this bill, we can talk about some two parts that solve shares of company companies that deal with losses. Of course, they did not come into existence or become more capital yesterday but they were, in particular, resources in the units of local self-government, so in their fields, and by some surrenders themselves, they were held as universal property and were prescribed to the state and were actually in useful value in local self-government units. It has an awful lot, there are many uncleared cases, and they could also greatly increase the capacity of the economy but also offers within local self-government units. So it's just some real estates that are under the protection of UNESCO, like the property that's being taken over in the land books, and then they're being protected by UNESCO, and then they're being owned and owned as former socialist organizations, so they're being put to use. But also here is good that now the state can somehow return it to the units of local self-government. That's exactly what we should insist on, and I think the core of the law should go towards it right now. We can manipulate ourselves by doubting everything as well as this possibility, but here I want to see this, and it seems to me that it was the taste of your speech to somehow make this rich and return what can be given for use in the general public good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46327	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46328	I spoke with Vice-President Greek, among other things, about the return of real estate specifically as they call it in Motovun the buildings of a Yugoslav magazine that would return to the municipality itself where some public contents could take place in the future. I have the impression that neither the state knows what it has and what it has, nor our units of local self-government, here above all I mean the municipalities, which I mean primarily cities, counties almost have none of those properties in their own possession. They have some companies that are simply higher and more than that domicile can successfully do business on the market. I think that these processes, and there's more or less we all agree we need to speed up, all of which should be put into operation as soon as possible. Do not privatize in a way that has become a pattern in Istria where one square someone buys for one kuna, later this one urbanizes and resells for 50 or 100 euros. Rather than simply giving people the opportunity to through long-term leases, through long-term concessions, through the rights of construction as many of these facilities as possible, that is to say, to enlarge these properties and to have some private or non-performing contents in which certain work processes will take place. Yes, I personally experience this Law that goes in the direction of speeding up this procedure and if we do not waste time in the future, unless there is this empty walk that every citizen of this country should benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46329	Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46330	Dear colleague Cain, I must admit that I did not understand the role of Milosevic in this Law, but look, it has been a year and a half of this people's power that the people have chosen. So if it was so urgent, and I agree it's urgent, but it's not urgent and it's not justified that this law is passed by emergency procedure. Because as our people would say if I didn't insult someone again, "Sit Kurt down to get Murt," instead of AUDI, we now have DUDI or DUDI. Since decentralisation, this law has nothing to do with it. This is total centralization. The stories about how local self-government is now going to benefit, it's total nonsense. There are examples where the state has no idea at all thanks to both AUDI and the Privatisation Fund but these are the bodies appointed by the Croatian Government, confirmed by this Croatian Parliament through laws which were also passed by emergency procedure and where practically nothing was done. So here I am asking the Croatian Government if it was so urgent and I claim that the state has no idea at this time what it has owned, that it has not even applied for the legalization of illegally designed objects that are state-owned which are actually seeking to achieve this Law. And let me put it in Slavonic, all-civilized way of riding a grandmother dorata and jumping on a crow. From this, this law cannot be passed by emergency procedure because it has a series of holes, because there is a series of illogicalities about which I will certainly say something more on behalf of the Club. But this law will not solve the problem of state property, state property management. And as for agricultural land, it may have been sold per kuna, there in Istria, owned by local self-government but state land, I end up, you couldn't sell state land per kuna because you had an estimate of the tax administration, it went for a hectare of the surface and the starting price was somewhere 18 thousand kuna. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46331	Thank you. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46332	Yes, maybe in Slavonia, but not with us, it was about under the kuna, at most two kunas. We're not the state of the country, even though some have acted as though they were headed by their own state. And it's not my fault that a farmer buys, so let him, for nothing, have it, but it's my fault when individuals who don't have anything to do with agriculture simply build their own Latifundi and come up with assets that aren't proportionate to their work, earning something like that. I would personally like Mr. Vinkovic to have this state decentralised as much as possible, so that as much as possible these processes descend towards local self-government. And I would like those national real estates or national property to be transformed according to local self-government to function. If she can't do it somehow, then leave it to some other bodies or let the state do it. Now, why did I mention these apartments, why I mentioned people who spent four or five years in Milosevic's prisons. Because Article 18(4) literally states that the State Office manages the property owned by the Republic of Croatia over which the Republic of Croatia exercises ownership rights relating to legal persons and the subject of the State's concessions stemmed from the breakdown of former SFRY in accordance with the Law, etc., that I do not mention everything else. Yes, it is that some people lost their apartments, these apartments are now owned by the state of Croatia, lived for 5, 6 or 10 or 15 years, spent in prisons for 4 or 5 years, were tried for spying in favour of the Republic of Croatia and cannot return to their home. I think sooner or later on some bodies we'll have to talk openly. I know that I helped one person, Mr. Horachek, who is in Pula today, I know the case of Mr. Maric, the whole group. But I also know these people who can't resolve their status law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46333	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46334	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, you mentioned the shares that were reserved for the Croatian military disabled and that are in this Act. They were also in the previous AUDI law, they are from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, members of their families, mortally injured, they are actually today we can say a dead letter on paper because Mr. Linic does not share shares with Croatian defenders, he does not want what is regulated by law to achieve a basket with these shares is constantly empty. And for a year and a half, there have been none that have been cashed in, which those who have created the Croatian state with their lives, those who have defended the Croatian state with their blood and bodies, there are no shares for them. This is really just a signed article and we didn't want to discuss it because it stands in the previous AUDI, as well as in the current law on the availability of state property, it is also defined by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. What is happening in this law could also be resolved by the government's Government Act and regulated by these rights. This all smells of one good care of those staff who will be jobless in the current Zagreb holding company who is also going to restructure the staff, and will probably find its place in the new organization or the Center for the Management of State Property or the central body that will receive... the name under this law. Probably this reduction to 200 people will hardly be possible because there will be many more, it will probably grow from 260 to 500 possible employees, and also this debt that was 2 billion and 600 rose to 3 and 300 with a new...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46335	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain. Once again, please follow the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46336	... It only comes down to taking care of the alleged political loyal ones, then the law will not fulfill its purpose, and I am able and publicly to say it. [[Specially enabled.]] However, that, exactly, article 67, you will say that it is prescribed, ok, there are no shares, but Linic, under quotes, the finance minister Mr. Linic must find the money and damage the victims of the Homeland War. If there's no stock there'll be money. And what was done by disposing of those shares, you know Mr. Djakic how it usually ended, so that the bags would buy the defenders' shares and those shares later build their business empires, the least of which were used by those most responsible for the independence of the Republic of Croatia, who bled or whose children suffered. And that must change, and in that direction, that message by Mr. Linic a few days ago, I personally experience it and personally greet it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46337	And Nevenka Becic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46338	Thank you. Dear colleague Cain, in connection with the presentation of the Bill on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia, you have pointed out and mentioned the category of protected tenants who, according to your instructions, live in nationalised apartments. However, I would disagree with you because there are currently 3,000 private-owned apartments in the Republic of Croatia, which have never been confiscated, or nationalised, in which rent is protected. These same protected tenants entered these private apartments not by the will of the owner but by the use of force and, of course, by political authority and by the support of the political authority that was then in a position to manage. Therefore, it violates the human rights of the owners of these apartments because they are not allowed to manage their property, to gain ownership of their property, and we know that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been guaranteed property. It is also impossible for the owners of these apartments to charge a market rent for their property because it is known that protected tenants pay so-called rent. a protected rent that is so miserable and small that it does not cover the cost of maintaining these apartments, or buildings, and by law we know that building maintenance costs are paid by the owners. So, since you have already touched the issue of protected tenants in connection with the proposal for a law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, you have been able to ask why and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to solve and place protected tenants and return the apartments to those whose owners are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46339	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46340	I am Mrs. Nevenka absolutely the owners of these "nationalized" apartments are completely depreciated, completely depreciated. However, what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia? Four hundred thousand people bought the so-called. social or state-owned apartments higher than housing rights. On the other hand, we have 3,000 more protected tenants or tenants who are in these "nationalized" apartments that were nationalized in the '40s and '50s, meaning they've been living there since '40s. And some, '50s. And some, '60s. And some. And now these people are in a situation where they simply lose a roof over their heads, that they no longer know whether they are in heaven or simply on earth. I personally believe that these dwellings should have been left to them because in this way we will have done perhaps even greater injustice than what was done to the owners of the forty or fifty years. All in all, I agree that there's one delicate matter where there's absolutely no for, or against, we're all in between. But I'm afraid these 3,000 protected tenants will find themselves in one situation that the next day won't be able to start a life over as perhaps they couldn't begin by one unfairly nationalized apartment in the 40s or 50s. However, there is another moral issue. Many of these apartments have been bought again by some shoppers, and now others, others, third, are trying to move out protected tenants. It's something to fight against.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46341	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Igor Radjenovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46342	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Greece, Mr. Pejnović and Cicak. The adoption of this law today is practically announced when in June, so no less than a year ago, we adopted a strategy of management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2017. And in this document we all remember, it was recently more than a hundred pages of detailed analysis and examination of the management and availability of state-owned assets, according to the following segments – companies, real estate, institutional management framework, and for each of these areas, guidelines and definitions were given, so guidelines on governance and improvement of the state and system of property management. It is then from the largest part of the clubs and the individual debate that praises the designers of the strategy, so I and this opportunity use, so on my personal name and name of the club I actually congratulate the bringers of this strategy, i.e. it was not easy to do because the situation that colleagues had when they sat down in that position of responsibility was at least not transparent enough. Namely, the Republic of Croatia does not yet know exactly how much property it has, which is its value. All assets are still not listed or evaluated, and the state also has minority stakes and shares in over 500 non-strategic companies, which are mostly burdened by a system that is legal and normative, so it is very extensive and normised through the over mentioned by colleagues over 40 different legal and sublegal acts. Indeed, the existing system of governance and availability of state assets is not sufficient, it is insufficiently transparent since there is no mechanism for monitoring and public availability of decisions and data relating to state property. Inconsistent management currently carried out by the Agency for State Property Management popular AUDIO makes it difficult to coordinate, resulting in a loss of benefit due to insufficient and irrational use of state assets. Long-standing habits in state property management in the last 20 years are unfortunately extremely slow to change and it was not easy to change them, rather than make decisions by a colleague and a colleague is just a little less of a bad solution than making wrong decisions. There have been such periods of wrongful criminal decisions, but let's put that aside now. It took determination and political courage to shake up the system as said by fellow Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Greekic, since all of the above has also caused indirect negative effects on the investment climate and the withdrawal of foreign direct investment that we so often talk about in this assembly about the need, so to improve the investment climate and the entrepreneurial environment. Therefore, due to the lack of systematic access and complete legal solutions and to the good organisation of institutional systems and personnel of the state in practice today does not carry out or carry out a slow and superficial full set of ownership powers. This caused damage in various forms of property or at least made it difficult to address development challenges and the state, but also to those who have to deal with the state and deal with property-legislative relations. So, by adopting the Strategy, the document that was first adopted in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the Law which led HDZ to the end of its rule but failed to bring it to an end was a basic prerequisite to move towards the settlement of this definitely and unequivocally said by all colleagues on behalf of the clubs, on behalf of the clubs before me ineffective system. The first step towards this goal is to regulate the legislative framework for governance and availability of state assets, i.e. The proposal for a law that is before us today, a law which aims to create assumptions for a transparent and effective decision-making system regarding the availability of state assets through acceptable governance models, definition of business processes, designing a reporting and surveillance system, particularly respecting the diversity of emerging forms of property, ownership and value. To this day practically property through... We led the shapes to two basic levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, the system recognizes as much as 36 if I'm not wrong, 34 plus those two, that 36 levels of phenomenal forms of value. Therefore, this law aims to increase the efficiency of state property management, establish a final single register of state property, and institutionally strengthen through the implementation of a future single transparent system of state property management that will have significant effects in the future for the economic development and growth of the state, but of course also on the standard of Croatian citizens, as property owned by the Republic of Croatia is owned by citizens. When we manage this property and who manages this property and makes decisions, it makes decisions on behalf of our citizens. All of the above points out that it is a long-term and complex task of improving the sector which has been negligible for decades and is necessary as soon as possible and as determined as possible to implement the changes in order to reduce losses and increase benefits. It is no secret that the Republic of Croatia is in an economic crisis and must start using its assets as a resource for economic growth as soon as possible. The basic assumption that the system would become more efficient is the problem of deciding on state property. The existing system of decision-making has clearly proved ineffective. The Agency for the Management of State Property was created by the merger of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Office for State Property Management failed to complete the Register of State Property or to adopt a State Property Management Strategy within the prescribed deadline, nor did it propose a management plan to the Government. They were all obligations under the State Property Management Act. So, by joining these two bodies, it wasn't the efficiency and acceleration of the system but rather the problems and ineffectiveness have increased, and the problem has become even more pronounced. One word system was ineffective. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognises and wants to change. Someone said that defeating this government's policy is just like some of the other laws we're making. I'm just thinking the other way around, I think it's a willingness to deal with problems. This is actually the point of the division that this government has in relation to the previous governments and which is its basic and best characteristic. Therefore, this law contains all preconditions for improving the system of defined strategy, forming a framework for governance and availability of state assets and offering a solution to the problems previously mentioned. For the purpose of implementing an integrated model that introduces centralised management and decentralisation of use of DUUDI becomes the Central Authority for the Management and Available and Coordination of State Property. The introduction of a central institution will improve and make the process more transparent. The law provides for the termination of the work of the existing AUDI and for the power to manage real estate and strategic commercial companies to be transferred to the DUDI and thus to the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, so to the new CERP Institute, in part of the powers relating to other companies which are not of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. The centre will be tasked with completing the privatisation of minority stakes in these societies as soon as possible and focusing its activities on restructuring companies in difficulty. Through, they mentioned some colleagues before me, through pre-fashional settlements and processes that we have there will certainly be some new candidates in this area, so it is very important that we also strengthen this institution as much as possible and operationally. The AUDI employees and AUDI employees will therefore take over DUDI and the newly formed Restructure and Sales Centre. Workers who wish and fulfil the conditions will become civil servants with all their rights and obligations to ensure significant savings in the system. In addition to reducing the number of workers, there will also be a reduction in the cost of the salaries of these workers, he spoke of this as an introductory vice-president of the government, since the agency's employees had coefficients and basics significantly higher, not as civil servants as it is expected to save from as much as 30 to 50% in the remuneration of employees in those places. The effectiveness of the impact on the making of the most important decisions will also be achieved by setting up two committees, the Commission of the Government for the Management of Strategic Trade Companies and the Committee of the Government for Real Estates, which will consist of Vice-Presidents and Ministers of Government. And contrary to some of the opinions of colleagues before me, that is exactly what this composition provides for transparency, so decision-making in one place and with people who act the most responsible functions in order, so when DUDI proposes that the system be as consistent as possible in its decision-making. Therefore, the Real Estates Committee of the Republic of Croatia will, among other things, make decisions on the availability of real estate or the set of real estates that constitute a whole, and the market value of which is greater than a million to including 100 million kuna. Up to a million we've heard decisions can be made by the director of DUUDI. It was also necessary to regulate the entire legal framework for the establishment of the Central Register of State Assets, which will ultimately cover all forms of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law sets out those forms of assets to be covered by the register, determines the body in charge of its implementation, the obligations of other state bodies in accordance with the register and the legal deadlines for the completion of the same as the infringement provisions for non-compliance with the deadlines for filling the register. Therefore, it fully defines the future finally 20 years of the expected Register of State Assets. The colleagues and colleagues are undoubtedly in very complex and difficult economic conditions, such as the country in the environment and the need to create an appropriate legal framework for the effective and long-term transparent management of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, which will, to a greater extent, contribute to faster economic development and better protection of national interests. Since this law provides answers and provides a framework for resolving these issues, the SDP club will certainly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46343	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46344	Here is a colleague, Radjenovic, who really sounds proud of his colleagues and colleagues, and I'm going to paraphrase because I didn't hear this very well, no doubt that Croatia is in a complex economic situation. It is, but I repeat the fundamental thesis of this law again. If we all knew at the beginning of the term of office and if the SDP was preparing for eight years to take over, and if this is a key law that must be passed by emergency procedure, why is this law not immediately adopted at the 1st session? The fact is that AUDI didn't solve anything, that the Privatisation Fund didn't solve anything, that it remained status quo. So here's just an example of Djakova mimosa that's the former PIC administrative building Djakovo. As mayor, I thought HDZ was obstructing because I am a member of the SDP, after coming to power I immediately asked Prime Minister Milanovic to give an urgent solution to that state property not to give property to the city of Djakova but to relocate all administration there, which Racan made in 2002. I didn't get any answers until today. Now, if that's what you're talking about, I expect that this problem will be solved immediately after this law is released in the People's Newspaper. You can be sure he won't. Be assured that we won't have much preparation to defend against the flood, that a lot of water will flow through Sava, Danube and Drava until this problem is solved. And that building is already failing, as far as it's been since 2000. 13 years and it's going to go on and on because we're just taking out Audi, we're introducing DUUDI with a slightly better structure, and with more people, we're going to put a little bit of a pay in someone's pocket, and we're going to sort this thing out. And he won't get rid of anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46345	Thank you. We have a colleague Radjenović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, Mr. Winkovic, you said you didn't hear me very well, and I see you didn't listen to me very well. I have repeatedly mentioned in my debate precisely this time-out, so a certain delay in the law prescribed the adoption of a strategy and is talking about the demanding task that colleagues had. We were unable to pass this law before we adopted the State Property Management Strategy and that the responsible and difficult task was in front of the people who took the job and it was not easy to do this and this if we remembered better at least I, as far as I remember, received fellow praise and I said that when we discussed this strategy in mid-June that the strategy was really written quality, efficient, professional and that it was really a good basis after 20 years for the decisions we made in the future. You said we didn't make decisions at the beginning of the term of office. So like today, some colleagues would accuse us of volunteering, you make decisions over your knees in a hurry. I think this topic deserves exactly this time that we've been going, I share with you the dissatisfaction that hasn't been done quickly enough but I say we're doing a job thoroughly, we're ready and we're ready to admit and make mistakes on that trip, we're ready in any case... dynamics and I think that if we move it away from political thinking the right basis on that path, we're actually a good derivative that came out of the State Property Management Strategy that I say if I remember well at least the boards there, I'm actually getting a better look at the debates there than the entire political spectrum about a good foundation for managing state property. And now, of course, in front of all of us and in front of decision-makers, a key thing is coming and that's a human factor. I am of course convinced you will not agree with me that people who exercise authority in the Republic of Croatia that through this human factor and responsible management and responsible decision-making will make decisions to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46347	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46348	You are not the first to find out that the Croatian state does not know what it has, how much it has, what it has, because we do not have a list of state property. And of course it's very difficult to manage something that you don't know is yours, which you don't even know exists. But I'm asking a question here and I've already asked a question a few times, this list of state property is being mysterious as if we're one separate continent as if we're already among all the countries in the world and who are the vast spaces and we can't even get to what we have. We can't make a list of state property in the 21st century. Is there a deadline of six months, a year, two years, five years, 20 years? Did anyone say what time state property will be listed? But I fully understand that this is an impossible mission for the government. For what? It's just proof of this Croatian Parliament. How will the information system in the Republic of Croatia connect when we here in the Assembly cannot connect in this one room to vote by electronic means. And now we really expect the government to be unable to informally connect 20 counties, to register property within a certain period and to subscribe to the Croatian Parliament what the Republic of Croatia actually has.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46349	Thank you. We have a colleague Radjenović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46350	Well, I can agree with this part, Mr. Vuksic, that I'm surprised that in the last 20 years we haven't been able to do that as a state, is that we haven't been able to write down the entire property. All the daunting circumstances that have property-legal relations from one system when you don't practically have titleholders of ownership and that's not the problem only Croatia is the problem of all the countries of communist history who haven't been keeping things up to date in land books and certainly manage themselves even in private but especially in business knows what these problems are and what a discrepancy it is and that this is the burning problem of the Republic but also the biggest problem with this entrepreneurial climate that we talk about so often. You were, of course, talking about other things that had nothing to do with what I was saying. What is the key is that, and the difference in our thinking that I have confidence in this furniture that it will succeed in doing this job and I am clearly saying it and I will repeat again that they have made the foundation good that the strategy is good and that in this direction we can expect only positive results. And unfortunately, these 500 companies that are in trouble with all the problems standing up said Mr. Greek that he does not want to mention the tactical reasons that all the obligations with these companies are so I will not mention them because there will be a lot of problems. But unfortunately, there will be some other companies in trouble. Business isn't easy, and I hope you didn't get me wrong I didn't want to spread any euphoria that tomorrow would be much better and that things would work out overnight. But that we made the first and most important step in that direction to effectively manage the property I am absolutely sure of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46351	Thank you, too. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46352	My colleague Rajenovic, believe me, I truly want this law to get its results and be good at implementing it. It's not a matter of selfish interest to us individuals as representatives, it's a national interest. However, you said Croatia needs an effective system of state property management. Vice President Greek said we don't have time to wait anymore. What am I afraid of in this model of the law? We don't have time and we need an effective system, it comes down to the form of decision-making and circle of people whether it's AUDI, DUDI, the new commission that this law provides. The power to dispose of the property is taken away from the Croatian Parliament and the people and comes down to power, four, five, six men. We don't have time under pretext. As a pretext of the financial economic crisis, the attack, the attack on labour rights and the social state that are being demonized simply and abuses the crisis situation and destroys the middle layer of the population is also being hit on state property under the same pretenses. Why don't we have a list of the assets? Because all governments have sold out so far. It was the only goal, the purpose of existence to sell out state property, they didn't have time to put together a list. I, like you, had full confidence and believed that the model of financing the construction of highways that was set up during your government in 2000, 2003, was the best in the world. Today, due to the debts created by the credit and this law is going according to an emergency procedure only because highways can be awarded in a concession now and immediately by the basis of the decision of four people which will, of course, cause general national Croatian resistance, the resistance to any attempt to give highways into concessions. [[Intruder: It's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46353	Thank you. We have a colleague Radjenović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I share your desire for this law to succeed, and that's the only thing the two of us are dealing with in this replica obviously, obviously, we agree. Mr. Lesar, you know what the biggest problem is in working when you run a particular company and especially state property? You're not making any decisions right now. Not making decisions is what brings you into situations when you have certain assets and delaying those decisions from a variety of opportunistic principles to get to the edge and then make decisions that actually cost you a lot more expensive and irrationally. This is what unfortunately characterized Croatian politics over the past 20 years but not just Croatian governments. Here's to saying, you know, and most of my colleagues here that I've worked until recently in Zagreb Holding in Zagreb, so let's say the decision on the Zagreb Fair is 500 thousand squares of the most valuable country in this part of Europe, and all the directors of this institution have since the socialist era said that there are enough 150 thousand modern squares, so make modern halls and hotels that come both the congress centre and the railway towards the airport and then Velesaj will succeed as such. I do not have to say what such a fair means and such a brand for the economic development of Zagreb, so the decision has not been made in all these 25 years. You know well that therefore the operational decision of the Parliament cannot be made and that this Law stipulates that if we decide to do so about some strategic companies, then we will have to make a lex specialis and it is explicitly written here. Therefore, there is no doubt that if there is a decision, and this is what Mr. Greek said today about a company that is on the list of strategic laws that will be passed on this. And around the HAC model, here and there I disagree with you, the model Mr. Lesar was good when it was built the way it was supposed to be built, when the shares that had its economic cost-effectiveness were built. Unfortunately, it stopped somewhere in 2006, in 07 when we were doing shares for a thousand and a half passengers. They come out expensive, paint tunnels and everything, but it's already too long a story and I don't have time anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46355	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Rajenović and you and your colleague, Greek, want to push through the the thesis all morning so that the property is not known. But at the same time we're talking about the structure of state ownership. However, there is something that simply does not stand. If the tax administration comes to taxpayers and debtors through the OIB, then I don't see that the state doesn't know how many shares it owns. I'm sure I know that. And that's in the stock. Also if the state doesn't know and isn't able to register, from the High Court of Commerce to remove the company-owned register, that's ridiculous. So it's something that's undeniable and the state has. However, there is something that is controversial and that requires two laws to be passed. But also here in the light of the law, it's not mentioned in a single word, and that's the state of the garter. So, uh... We're talking about what the state isn't clear at this point, because by taking the land there from 45th to here, just not taking it anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if someone hadn't slowed down the projects of introducing the OIB into the grantovnica, the project would probably be completed today and the state would have the same thing by clicking on the number, so the OIB would have a clear situation. However, until the Law on Commercial Land is passed and the maritime good is clearly defined, and that is the real problem when it is said that the state does not know what the property is, it is very difficult to talk about. And you're saying that so far there's been nontransparent management. Very interestingly, the Governing Council of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was members of the Government and members of the Supervisory Board were parliamentary representatives, all sessions were practically, were public, filmed by the media. And that was non-transparent, and now all transparency comes down to Article 13 which says that, if I am not mistaken, by 31 March of the current year, the office will deliver a report to the Government on the implementation of the management plan for previous assets, the previous year. So, that is the transparency that will be achieved. [[Intruder: Time.]] And another thing, don't say there's determination and political courage for changes that practically don't exist. [[Intruder: Time of fellow Shucker.]] Because when you look at this law, you're basically going back to the old privatisation fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46357	Thank you. We have a colleague Radjenović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, Croatia doesn't have a list of assets, it hasn't done it so far, I agree with you that it was possible to do it but we haven't done it, at least we haven't done it in one place and there was not enough political will about it. And when you mention transparency about management and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, I did not have the joy of saying so or the possibility to participate at that time. But if I remember correctly, the anti-corruption process in the Republic of Croatia, which has been going on for the last 4-5 years and which we have kind of branded in the world, started right with the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the head of the fund there, as Matkovic was called, the one who sang well and that video, etc. So that's where there was a problem that led to transparency. Therefore, the the thesis that the management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was transparent, and the anti-corruption struggle started right there and proved itself, I don't know what state the process is now, that I'm not wrong, I think it's practically denying you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46359	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46360	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Radjenović, I would support your debate in one part, so I accept and agree that a list of state property should be made, we adopted the strategy here in the Croatian Parliament. That there are problems and riots that have been shown through these many legal regulations that regulate this law more than 35, and then it needs to be controlled. It's a great opportunity for problems, as well as for possible manipulations. But I wanted to say something else, this one forgotten perhaps moment in this law, and it has to do with the Republic of Croatia, and then that human factor in all this. We have about 500 companies here where the state owns or up to 25% of shares or over 25% of shares, and I am concerned, and I think that we should have brought a strategy which, with all the workers who are still going to end up in the privatisation and restructuring process at the Employment Office, is going to be out of work. Only one example from my county, Bizovačka spa 98% of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia is not a strategic enterprise, ten times the sales tried, so the privatisation fund and AUDIO agency, and this new government, the vice president of Greece knows well, a pre-profit deal has been tried, there is a problem. Well, here's that one concern, and I hope you're sharing that opinion with me that we should take care with this, however, of what we're going to do with all these people and workers when it comes to the implementation of this law, and the fact is that without that one social moment, we can't do anything good for the Republic of Croatia if we sell something, and a large number of people are found at the Employment Office, and it's again a large amount of money from the state register. Well, we should do such laws in parallel, and we should have one strategic plan which, with all the workers and their families, when these sales are carried out, if there is a sale of those 500 companies that are not of strategic interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46361	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46362	Here is one of the few replicas when I practically have to confirm, my colleague Salapic expressed hope that I share my opinion with him, yes, I share with him the opinion and precisely the 500 and some of the companies that are therefore in this system today and which, as I said in my debate... pre-departure settlements will come into this system and we will actually find a solution to this agony of these people and the false hope that we may have. And this is exactly the law that allows this efficient model, so this is the CRP, so this is the Center for Restructuring and Sales which should therefore be specialized precisely for a solution in this field, because I say make a decision as soon as possible, try to save the company, that is, the aim of the Law on Pre-bank settlement, but also of these laws and these companies in which we unfortunately have all these years had problems. In the good part of these companies, the situation is pretty bad, especially for workers, everyone knows it from the examples of their local companies and finally about it we can and must bring a solution and just say this model and people who will specialize in this field carry that path. And that's where you're going to have to make some tough decisions in all the social models that will then accept when you have information all together and actually that. So, once worded, this law is going that way through the CRP institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46363	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said in your statement that the government had inherited one system ineffective, inefficient, disorganised, which was implemented through AUDIO by state property management, a central body, which was established under a law based on an unsettled record of state property because it was adopted at a time when the state did not have a state property record and had no central property management register established. This then implies that we are now passing this law in completely different conditions, in conditions in which the register of state property is arranged, the register has been established, and then, based on such data, we are now passing this law. That's not true. We're making this law almost in the same conditions we brought three years ago. That's when we left the model that this law is now re-establishing. Therefore, we now have to trust the government in good faith that now something that has been bad for years and that has not worked that will now be established in a new way and that it will now function normally. I don't see how it's going to work now for two weeks, so the CERRP, that Restructure and Sales Center, on the one hand, and on the other hand, DUDI, the State Office for State Property Management, will work much better. He will be led by the same people, supervised by the same ministers, a system that was set up three years ago and you are now trying to convince us that it is a very good system that will now function. I would like the government first of all to have come up with a state-owned property plan that would plan to determine the holders, the deadlines, the financial resources to manage the property, and this is not how it gets the impression that the government is doing something, and in the end it brought back the system that we had three years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46365	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What I objected to the former government, but I say was not the aim of a political debate, that it did not bring this strategy of governance and availability of property in time, i.e. She made a decision that it must be made within 6 months, but practically in the setting of that government. So we still remember how long the HDZ government was in power and didn't feel the need to actually act systematically with this area, the demanding area, and to actually start from a quality strategy. Often from the opposition benches we hear the story and as you run economic policy, you don't have a strategy for this, you don't have a strategy for it. It was my objection that this strategy had not been adopted before. And she's actually contitiated son qua non to make these things work. If you expected that we would bring some celestial solutions in terms of organization, of course that will not happen. I think the strategy clearly defined all the problems, that we defined the carriers, that you were talking about making plans for certain companies. So that's exactly what the strategy describes, so through its regular work and so people on one side for strategic companies, and... They're about to come up with annual plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These annual plans will be presented to the Croatian government for these strategic matters and will receive the approval and report on all this. We could think eventually, so the strategy predicts that every three years these reports come to the Parliament. I've spoken to both the leaders and the vice president and the leaders of the DUDI. They don't mind if that report comes to the Parliament once a year, and I think that would ensure maximum transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46367	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46368	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the State Office for State Property Management, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that today's bill of law is of paramount importance for this House, for the Croatian public and of course for the government's policy at this time. No matter how much it's said or how much it's not said we're in a situation where we have to scratch the bottom of the pot and we have to collect what's left at the bottom of the pot. And we've been accused because we've been brought into that state, but that's how it is. And that's why it's of particular importance for us to be as effective as possible in this business as possible, but at the same time, to avoid making mistakes. And for this reason, we at the SDSS Club think it is important that the fragmentation of property management powers owned by the Republic of Croatia prevail. And the intensity of this bill goes that way and we welcome it. We therefore welcome this to achieve a higher degree of efficiency in the management and availability of assets, to avoid overlaps, and in decision-making powers, and of course to achieve as much compliance as possible and as much precision as possible in the legal acts so that the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia can be carried out as clearly as possible and as presently as possible. I'll give you one example. People who need to buy apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, let's say, outside the area of special state care in a series of certificates to be issued because their personal documents must be collected by four indications – the indication of the DORH or consent, AUDIO, DUDI and the Ministry of Regional Development. Why when it's enough that there's one indication of such a thing. We can imagine that if we want not only to have a solution to an asset-law issue for people who are entitled to it, but if we want to have a more serious investment, then we want to instruct people to collect all these types of consent and decision-making, it shows no seriousness of the state given the circumstances in which we are, and the circumstances are very serious. And you're foreign we support it. Secondly, as regards the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there is no single register of property owned by the state, it is a disgrace. For a country that in 20 and a few years has failed to establish a register of its own properties shows to what extent we are and to what extent we are consolidated as a state and to what extent we actually care about what the state is and what the state should be. Those who thought the state was enough to organise celebrations, to organise celebrations, to raise flags may be satisfied with such a state. But for an average citizen in the Republic of Croatia, the fact that the state does not know where its property is is is about as if it does not know where its borders are and where the soldiers or customs officers should be placed so and within the state does not know where its property is, what is its condition and what is to be done with it, and the state of the register and property, unfortunately, shows that this is the state of affairs of things and it gives the Government an argument to go with this kind of law. And that's two things we at the SDSS club support. And now I'd like to say a few things we don't support, where we don't agree. So these two things require greater authority, greater concentration of government and better harmonisation. However, there is no doubt that it carries with it serious risks, and I do not say serious risks personally because I have no reason to suspect anyone. But I'm saying because in 20 years and a few years of possession of state property that was extensive, we know enormously what we've been through, we've had to change the constitution so that crimes from conversion and privatisation don't go out of date. Which, though, is a dead letter on paper, so it might seem like it's a pre-election campaign or part of an action in a pre-election campaign at the time. But it still exists as a provision and was brought in for a reason. And for that reason, it seems to me, Mr. Representative, since the minister is gone, it would be important to do the following two things. First, I think it would be extremely important for this House to receive a final State Property Report in the Republic of Croatia. What happened to state property, what's her condition right now? For example, in my own time, I heard that local self-government units received millions of dollars in the war for the industrial zone, industrial areas. If 50% of it was sold then we should know, then it would be our turn to know why it was sold and what happened to it. If true, it does not belong to you now, it belongs to public companies such as Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests that a good part of the concessions on water and on forests, to exploit drinking waters or to use biomass and forests actually stands so that, it is not used but stands, so that it could be sold on the market tomorrow to someone who comes as an investor. So is that the point, is that how you can dispose of state property? I don't think so. Therefore, if there were clauses in contracts in this respect, I would activate them, so I would show the state's responsible relationship to the availability of state assets. In that sense, we suggest that the office draw up a State Property Report and submit it to this House to discuss it. Another thing that seems important to me, I wouldn't go into all the technical aspects of governance, decision-making, appointments of the people that the law provides and can come from the assumption that the government has the right to take responsibility for how it will manage state property. But the Parliament must not be excluded from that. Finally, the Assembly should receive a report on the availability of state property. And that will be the SDSS amendment. As the plan will be submitted to the government at the end of March each year, it would be appropriate to submit a report to the Parliament on how it was handled as planned. And that will only strengthen the credibility of the work you and the government are doing. And I don't see any reason why the Parliament should rule it out. Especially given the circumstances of the past 20 years, how it has actually been handled and especially given the fact that some colleagues say this reminds us of the former Privatisation Fund. If it reminds us of the former Privatisation Fund, then let's get this thing back to the Parliament and give it the opportunity to finally express its position on what it actually seemed to be, how it had property owned by the state. The third thing I would like to say and which seems particularly important to us, you are probably aware of, but unfortunately, the law is not explicitly stated enough, I think, for a number of reasons in the law, there should be a provision that would be laid down from the process of selling property or the different availability of a state with property subject to the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. There are institutions, there are natural persons, there are legal persons who have submitted requests, and in this respect it would be extremely important that this law does not question this process in any way. Therefore, to install a provision prohibiting the availability of all assets subject to the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. There are, of course, other issues, such as the issue of shares in the re-privatisation process where returnees of Serbian nationality, unfortunately, could not participate. In companies where they worked, which they created along with their fellow citizens. And in that sense, it would be extremely important to find some kind of mechanism to make that element of injustice that has been done correct. The same applies to the return of property to the institutions of the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia. We have two key institutions within the community, these are the Serbian Business Society "Privrednik" and the Serbian Cultural Society "Provoda". Unfortunately, the return of property stands, we haven't found an adequate way either where the property is as clear as in the case of Education, clear property, book ownership of institutions, let alone where there is a request for return of property. There's one more thing I'd like to say in the end. The state can obviously be effective when it sets its goal, and when it does not set its goal, there is no efficiency. Thus, the state decided to book through the DORH as the owner of land everywhere where a natural or legal person stands in the catastra, but the cadastre does not correspond to the state of land books, so it is in the islands, so it is in return environments, so according to Slavonia, there are many cases where people use the country for generations but are not registered as owners but the non-judicial owners are not judicial owners. The state's attorney's office is recording that he owns the property. Thus, there could be a high degree of efficiency, although at the expense of people, although at the expense of legal certainty, although ultimately at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. And here when it was necessary to register the property, to establish control over it, it couldn't. Why? Well, because the state obviously didn't have a goal. You've decided, Mr. President, that the state has a goal, I'm speaking to you on behalf of the government, we support that goal, but we're looking for these three things. We ask that the state property be previously published, that it be discussed in this House, that once a year a report of the Government's management of state property be submitted and that it be excluded from the management of state property and the availability of state property, all those cases which are in the process of return or over which the State itself has taken certain actions that are not very good in accordance with legal tradition and legal practices such as this State's registration through the DORH over the property of natural or legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46369	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46370	Dear fellow Pupovac, at the very beginning you said one sentence with which I fully agree, it is a shame for the state that it does not have a list of its assets. I'm sure if he doesn't have a list of his assets, he can't even manage that property. However, I will briefly ask another question, Will someone answer when that list will be carried out? When are we gonna have a single register? Why is so many names created around this state property? It's not impossible to register state property in six months, in a year. Is it because it can be inn and sold out? Why hasn't 20 and a few years gone? All the governments so far have made a mistake. I'd like to ask this government's response by when the register will be published.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46371	Thank you. We have a Pupovac colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46372	I can't assume the reasons why so far there has been no single register and arranged register of state property but I can see what the consequences are. The consequences of this are irresponsible behaviour, resulting in a lack of control over the availability of state assets. And in that sense, I agree with you that it is necessary to establish this register as soon as possible, but in order for that register to be established as soon as possible then a kind of centralisation of that procedure is needed. And in that sense, this is a good initiative when it comes to law. What we just don't want is for this Parliament to be excluded from this process and from looking at pictures. And we don't see any reason why the Government wouldn't allow this Parliament to finally have this debate because we believe that the Government is doing this with the intentions that correspond to the intentions of us who are involved in this discussion, which is protecting the interests of the state and the responsible availability of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46373	Thank you. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're saying that it's incomprehensible to you that after 23 years of establishing a state state, there's no organized record of its own property and that it's under the condition that the state isn't consolidated and you're saying it would be about the same as if it didn't even know its limits. Well, it's just that the paradox is that the state doesn't even know its borders and that all borders and they're down to the south end of Prevlaka isn't defined, the temporary regime on the border in the south has expired. The question of the border in Maloston Bay has not been resolved, the issue of belonging to the Great and Little Scoy, Punta and Klek has not been solved. Gera, no space has been solved on the left bank of the Danube, etc. You still said that the state must have and set a goal when it comes to state property. And that's exactly what I was saying on the strategy when we were talking about the State Property Management Strategy that at these points on these areas of this state property that the strategy should have clearly indicated in which direction the Republic of Croatia would go in defining its assets if we so called which makes the territorial sea south of Prevlaka, which we're going to do with St. Gerom, what about the space left of the Danube at the border with Serbia, etc. So these objectives that you mentioned earlier in the strategy should also be set out in the management plan which the state office will propose for adoption should be clearly defined what we will do with these premises and with this property. At this point, the Republic of Croatia does not know what is going on with assets south of Prevlaka because the temporary regime at the border with Montenegro has ceased to function, or it expired on 10 December this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46375	Thank you. We have a Pupovac colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46376	Dear counterpart Bacic if all our problems and all our troubles were tied to the remaining unresolved issues of border lines with Montenegro, Serbia and BiH and the property affected by this unresolved status, we would have a really simple problem when it comes to property. We had a serious problem of negotiating what I hope will be completed and that the Government will accept it and try to reach that solution. This is what other countries and these disputes have for a very long time but do not have this kind of difficulty that we have in the Nordic countries or in any other countries where they have problems with the separation at sea or where they still have some questions about the demarcation at certain points on land. But what matters to us is that management of state property is a means as we understand it. That the less we owe each other where we're in debt, the more we don't need to do it and finally start using what we have at home. Let's see what our ornaments look like, see what our lands look like. Let's look at how much of this has been done and how much it hasn't been processed. Therefore, we need to do something at home. And do it at home we understand that the purpose of this law is. But what we wouldn't want in this case, I repeat again is to take the risk that this body that's been excluded from the tracking process all these years, surveillance however we want state property in this absent base to be excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46377	Thank you. Goran Maric replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Pupovac, for speaking of the inadmissible absence of the register of property of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, after so many years, it's inappropriate and inadmissible for civilized society. But I think the concentration of responsibility is sent to the wrong place. At least the Agency for State Property Management is responsible for an incomplete register. If a little reading is visible, they have made an effort and made a register with more than 300 thousand data entries. And who made the appointment? They have scheduled ministers, because even when AUDI warned them that they were delivering their data from, at least from their ministry and offices and institutions in which they were responsible, they never reacted or very rarely. And they never asked AUDI to make a register. In fact, the Ministers now and the Government are ordering the formation of a new centre for the sake of, and to God's forming a register for which they are the most responsible that does not exist. And what's very important and it seems to me to be a minor mention. In that register, the maximum value of assets in the process of conversion and privatisation of companies is not sufficient. It's not there. Well, we don't, we don't know how much telecommunication infrastructure is worth that has never entered the core capital of the societies that have turned... And we know how much the Croatian people cost, cost them about 2 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46379	Thank you, too. We have a Pupovac colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46380	It is difficult for fellow Maric to agree with you that members of the Government who are co-responsible and they are designed by this Act to be co-responsible throughout the procedure. At the same time, however, institutions formed by this Act shall be given powers which we hope will benefit from in line with what is necessary in terms of determining the state of the property, i.e. making a register, at the same time as the assessment of the value of the property you were talking about. As for that, we support such a procedure and expect the State Office to do so. If, by any chance, I had been at the site of the legislator's initiator to the head of the State Property Management Office, I should certainly have given the status of a member of the Government. And this is the status of a member of the minister because this is really a very serious business, a business that depends not only on the legal situation of the property but also depends on a whole series of investment opportunities. But it's already a matter of government itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46381	Thank you. And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46382	The question of state borders is not as said by Prime Minister Milanovic, those two stones in the Adriatic Sea, it may be for him to be stones in the sea, but they can agree with you that Croatia and the Croatian Government would have a far easier job in solving that it is the only problem of this country. But to me, here I am not clear as a parliamentary representative, as well as a man who is somewhat understood in politics that in these 23 years we don't really have a list of state property. That certain governments from the 1990s until now may have had more important work to do in this entire history of this young country by 2013. But it is still incomprehensible that the Croatian state does not have a list of state assets in 2013. And now, I don't want you to get angry, but there's also the responsibility of the SDSS, because you had a vice president of the Croatian government and probably supported that Racan government from 2000 to 2003. But I do realize that your influence in these governments wasn't that great. Same as not in this one. The most important issue this country needed to address in this newer time Croatia is precisely state property. What are we doing now? We have an AUDI that was supposed to be doing the same job as our famous DUDI now. But the responsibility will not again be on the director of DUUDI, but on ministers and the Croatian government who must know what to do with the property Or we create a parallel system that will be above the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament, and then the director will be able to manage state property as he pleases. [[Intruder: Time.]] Not doubting a man's knowledge, value but.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46383	Thank you. We figured out a colleague of Vinkovic's. We have an answer, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46384	I don't know if you understood but he understood the Croatian people yes, with forgiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46385	Here's a colleague of Pupovac's, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46386	First of all, I will not say as some prominent HDZ members say they were having a hard time, they were embarrassed, that they were ashamed of being co-operated with the SDSS. Me and my colleagues from the SDSS were not ashamed, we were not pressured by the co-operation and we worked together on matters that were of state interest, to settle interethnic relations, to introduce order into the state, in certain matters. And if we had had the opportunity to deal with these things too, so that we were less concerned with the issue of the rights of returnees, that we were less concerned with the issue of return environments, that we were less concerned with the intolerance that existed in society, including according to the SDSS, we would have had more time to deal with these questions that you and your colleague Winkovic rightfully asked. Therefore, the time has come to deal with this and we are ready to take responsibility for it, we are ready to take responsibility and therefore we believe that this is extremely important what we are doing today, an extremely important law in which, I repeat once again, the Croatian Parliament and those of us who are discussing here must have a place and a role to play.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46387	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the state office, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Lately, we have witnessed the more important laws, the faster the process of passing. It's not good and it can't get good results at all. But the way of managing state property is, I would dare say, the most important segment in the Republic of Croatia because of the way state property is managed depends on the overall economic situation and is in principle the most direct influence on the state of society. The HDZ cannot support such a bill because it does not recognise and cannot in any way recognise what the government announced when it came to power, and the government said it has a vision, that it has a strategy, that it knows exactly what to do and that it has good intentions. All economic success criteria show and point to the government's failure, which means that the strategy is wrong. It is only 4 main criteria for production growth, enough to say that GDP dropped 2% in 2012 compared to 2011 when growth was 0, that in the first quarter of this year 1.5% and in the same quarter last year was 1.1%, that the number of unemployed was increased by 40,000, that the number of employees decreased by 47,000, that inflation was 3.4%, and it was 2.3% in the previous year. Therefore, all those basic benchmarks of the government's success point to the failure of the government's work and cannot be compensated by access to such an approach to governance of state property where good intentions cannot be recognised. In this regard, if we go to Article 2(2), the meaning of this bill is made clear, the basic guideline is read from it. It says, the availability of state assets implies the right to alienation, burden, restriction and waiver of rights. What's the point of having state property? In the first place, alienation. HDZ cannot support, meaning cannot be alienation, the purpose of state property management can only be effective and efficient management of state assets, and this cannot be achieved by alienation. This also recognises the announcement of the sale of Croatian insurance, Croatian Post Bank and the award of highway concessions. We have already spent a lot of words on the senselessness of selling out what is left and this is the most important and strategic most important state-owned enterprises. Croatia's insurance, so much has been said about the possibility of selling as much as can be obtained from the sale. I said the last time here is worth 15 billion kuna, and he wants to sell for up to 2 billion kuna. Here is the latest indicator, only illustrations are working, Croatia's insurance has raised a 32 million kuna loan although I cannot understand that it has a deposit of a billion and a half in banks, and it raises a 32 million kuna loan. And you know what the banks had to do with the most conservative method of insurance, only two technical stations, and the total is 45. So only technical cells are worth a billion kuna, it's an invaluable strategic position or invaluable value and property property that we don't talk about, business, that basic business, too. So it's an irrational move to sell Croatian insurance. Likewise with the last credit institution we have, which is the Croatian Post Bank. And actually why our economy doesn't work if we know that banking is the flow of the economy, and we've brought our own into the banking system the wrong blood type. In our system, a car is the wrong blood type. And what's left of the blood cells of the Croatian banking system needs to be removed, so that we don't question the entire economic system, but we take them into bankruptcy and we see that those who are the most responsible for the economic situation in society say, or we're going to give the highways in a concession or we're going to go bankrupt. It is not the government's task to give concessions but built because the motives for giving concessions to built highways without which there is neither social nor economic life can be found in the context of the economic profession, nor in the context of economic logic. The task of each government is to strengthen the fiscal capacity of the state, and it can only be strengthened through economic growth. If that is not possible, it cannot make up for it or make up for the sale of state assets and those most important for the future of the Croatian people and the Croatian state. In the event of a concession of highways under concession, the Croatian people will eventually pay for everything. They will also pay the amount obtained for the 2 billion or 3 billion-euro concession, will also pay the cost of taking care of workers and will be in thousands. They'll pay interest for the 50 years the concessionaire's gonna have. They'll pay the entire profit and profit of the concessionaires, pay both high bonuses and managerial salaries of the concessionaires. All of this, we will pay for it, and all because the government is unable to start the economic growth that insists, but cannot achieve it. We only hear daily why what was announced did not come true. When I spoke here earlier in an emergency procedure in a replica, and in this reasoning of the law, it was lost somewhere in the reason that five million kunas were needed for the establishment of a register, and in fact AUDIO already with its information support, with its staff already working, and I was talking about it further. But we can't keep going without a small town. So I get someone to come to power is the most important driver, car, chair and new furniture, parking in the offices. So when are we gonna stop this already? Already with this bill, it must move from Luciceva to Djezmanovo and rent a space of 12 euros per metre square. Today, you pay a rent of 12 euros per meter per square metre. Well, I don't know who wouldn't be happy if they could rent a place to pay him just a tenant for maintenance expenses, let alone rent. But when it comes to the state, it can pay 12 euros per metre square metre. Here, in the form of state property, I don't know why those forms can't be influenced by either the office or this center. There are other institutions that are legally authorised to manage and save deposits and international foreign reserves and money, cash equivalents. Thus, it is unnecessary when it is not affected or influenced. Otherwise, I still have to say that it persists because it sounds nice to those who may not understand that term enough, so under the cover of the concession, some term of monetization is mentioned. It's a constant monetization. How nice and proud economic sounds, but those who say that don't know what they're talking about. The monetisation process is to convert less liquid assets and non-money into money, and the concession has no bearing on it. The concession is a concession. So let's stop with that notion that doesn't match what it's used to. And this law is full of misunderstandings. When it comes to the principle of the public, we have those indefinite terms again. That they are obliged to publish the most important management decisions. And what are the most important decisions? And as a state-owned beneficiary of the state budget, they have to publish all the decisions, otherwise this new centre is the budgetary user. We talked, we heard from the predecessors here about the concentration of power in one place, so it was a replica that it wasn't, so there's no example anywhere in the economic world that an office has this kind of power, that there's no board of directors, that there's no one there, that it can even be authorized to set up companies for special purposes. Is that not power in one person? To be able to establish committees, appoint committee members and secretaries for law-making purposes and edit the way commissions work. But that he can even set his own compensation for the work of those members of the commission, that he can even determine the headquarters of the centre. He's in the office, but he also determines the headquarters of the center. Even the chairman of the board of directors is the center. All this in one person and too much power in one place, and responsibility doesn't fit the powers. And the fundamental principle of governance in the economy is that powers must meet their responsibilities. Here is the disproportion of responsibility and authority. Insufficient attention is given to how AUDIO's problem will be solved, it is true that the regulation is a follower of the centre, but we do not know how much the centre owes or how much it requires. What about the credit debts that came at the bank? How's that gonna work out? When it comes to the Governing Council, nothing really changes. The same government representatives who are in the Governing Council and the current AUDIO. And when it comes to Article 31, where the President and members of the Governing Council say they are appointed for a period of 4 years, so how can they be appointed for 4 years when their term of office ends in 2.5 years? The government ends its mandate, the ministers cease their term of office. Then they can't be members of the Governing Council anymore. This must therefore be linked to the duration of the government's term of office. The mandate cannot be extended, and it is no longer the government or minister who has or has changed the minister. When the terms of appointment of directors and deputy directors are recognised, unfortunately, I am afraid that because of the change of government in Zagreb, many young people who have managed companies and those from Higher or Higher Schools immediately came to the executive post, they are now left without such resistances and are now open to accommodation in these centres and offices, so it is envisaged that the director of the mall that manages the companies has 5 years of working experience. What will a person who finishes college and 5 years of work experience, how can he be the executive at the highest possible hierarchical level? So in the organisational structure there are dozens of levels of governance. There are three basics, the lowest, the medium and the highest. So we allow this to actually have no experience in management without those basic and middle management functions going straight from college to principal. But I also have to commend one piece, finally to stand that after completing the university study. Here's something new to say hello to. So here's the time, but ultimately, because of everything presented by the HDZ club, it doesn't support the bill. [[Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Maric.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46389	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Maric, the government, and this morning, the vice president of Greece, said that the lack of order of property and the lack of establishment of the Central Register of State Property is one of the important reasons for inefficient management of state property. First of all, the delusion is that state bodies, state-owned companies, do not have data on their assets. They're in the mood. Because it is precisely this data that will later form this Central Register, and therefore it will be as good as its data and delivery bodies. But with the establishment of the Central Register, we're going to get as good and as bad information as they own these same state bodies or public companies so far. It's like wearing a new suit to a patient. He may look nicer, but he'll still be sick. That's the situation with this Central Register. If we do not approach the systematic geodetic measurement, the establishment of the catastra and land books will have an unsettled and state-owned property but we will also have the unsettled property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about a problem in the functioning of state property management, but the same situation is with the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we at the HDZ Club and the Government when she proposed the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings were set aside a third of the fees for the retention of an illegally built building in the area for the construction of a catalogue and a land book, and in the largest part of the property at its disposal and managed by the state. I am therefore surprised that the Government did not retain such a provision and that this feedback from citizens who submitted 773 thousand legalisation applications was not used to settle assets not only of state property but also of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we warned about when this government was changing that law that was perfectly imagined to be used by funds collected from that fee to settle assets and the total assets in the Republic of Croatia both by private and state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46391	Time. Next replica Ingrid Antičević. ... And the answer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So please respond when a colleague responds so I see. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, if anything is to be done within 6 months, shall be registered until the last parcel of each property and of the citizens and of the Republic of Croatia. There were obviously reasons why they didn't want to do it. But you've noticed well that property citizens are a problem and it's wrong that it's given up taking care of cadastres and land books. That it's a prerequisite for the completion of the state property, it's a prerequisite. But whenever an economic policy is scheduled, tax policy in the form of a tax bite leads to riots in the country. So the whole, most of the unresolved problems when it comes to citizens' assets stemming from the former system when the real estate tax was paid for 50% and 50 years, no one transferred real estate, changed 5.10 owners, remained unclear because who would pay 50% tax on real estate sales. So the state creates frames, but it also complicates frames. This will make it even more complicated, especially when some articles are considered as Article 56. That predicts that real estate can also be donated to other natural and legal persons. Is it not enough in Croatia to divide and divide and give? And none of that only benefits the damage. So isn't it enough that we've shared so many companies, so much value and property that we have to now and legally build up that we're still allowing the division or most likely the same, the same physical and legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46393	Thank you. Next replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a respected colleague you said the HDZ Club won't support because here in law it's listed as state property content to sell out. The foundation in our Property Act and other real rights, the fundamental content of the ownership law, is precisely available which includes sales. All other owners or property owners have fewer rights, can use it to enjoy the fruits but only the owner can have it. So find some other reasons. This is the bill that the state finally wants me to say what everyone has criticised so far, but it's a process that started in 2000 when people with pencils and paper went down the streets and started recording state property. But how did the inn ever get in the way of this mess that needs to be solved? The language was first created, it was social, so it was hated and then it became state. But everything that was social was no longer enjoyed by the protection. So let us remember only the treasure of the mines no longer enjoyed the protection of the law, let us remember the pebbles of the river where the rivers were peeled. What's it called? You here teach us a lesson as we call ourselves, which is the content of the monetization, which is a concession, but people know what content is. But tell me, what was the content of it when it was held free of charge for years, usurped state property into invaluable property, paid a small fee or no compensation while the defenders were liberating the country someone was liberating state squares as it is called, and everything else? What's it called? You can have a special name in HDZ for that, and the people know what it's called. It's called a robbery. But often this robbery was encased in patriotism, and we now know by our courts how many zeroes this was written in patriotism from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46395	Thank you. Here's my colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46396	My colleague Antičević, the robbery was probably going to be, and this law why we don't support it, I explained it in the first sentence. The availability of state assets implies the right to alienation. So the first meaning of being available is to alienate. This is not the purpose of managing state assets is effective and effective management, not alienation. And you would be a lawyer, I believe that you know that the right to take possession is the most controversial property law that exists in the legal system. And this law also allows for the right to adopt. Well, it's enough of what's been everyone's fault that there's someone else's decree now. And when you want what it's called, I meant not to say it, but now I'm going to tell you. The award of concessions of highways under concessions is the most valuable thing that the Republic of Croatia has, it is the most qualitative product that we have imported into the EU and we want to give it up. We cannot give up what is only at EU level except that it is above EU standards. The highways are the only thing we have above EU standards. And giving in to a concession of such infrastructure without which there is no life that act is at the level of an anti-national act. That's what it's called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46397	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Maric, you said notorious fact, which is that this government is unable to reverse economic growth. We already know this, all of us, what needs to be particularly concerned, is that the Prime Minister of the current government in an interview at CCN openly says that our economic recovery depends on neighbouring Italy. Now, instead of economic growth, it is evident that only privatisation is offered. HDZ is not against any privatisation, so there are certain hotels there are some properties in which in the 21st century the state is probably not the place to manage it, but every smart state currently does not sell except the one that has to. Croatia is not currently in a situation thank God it has to sell anything. So today I repeat in 2013 the EU only sells property to those who have to because it is significantly worse for those assets, or its value. Now what is particularly fascinating to me personally. I am fascinated by this government's obsession with privatisation because this government does not support the private sector at all. So nothing in the past year and a half that the current government has done has contributed to and supported the private sector and employment. And that's what the results show today. Well, the team's more fascinated by that insistence on privatisation. So on the one hand, you didn't do anything to cut down on domestic interest entrepreneurs, though, so you led the state to have Jung reitting junk. This, of course, prevented interest for Croatian companies from being lower now that we have joined the EU, thanks to God. The tax burden has been more proven calculated whatever the current government has said. So the question arises and I'm the last one to speak against foreign investors why at this point and at any cost is doing all this work. However, Croatia should make foreign investments but so-called Greenfield investments. So from Ledine to build factories, warehouses, hire people, not sell out property into invaluable property. As far as this law itself is concerned, I apologize, it is best to show the government's position that Mr. Pejnović came out at the moment when you started speaking on behalf of HDZ, and the law itself is, of course, exclusively a form of practice and not to repeat everything you said at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46399	Thank you. We have a colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46400	Thank you very much. Well, of course it shouldn't be against certain parts of privatisation. But there are always strategic companies that cannot be privatized. The state must not give up itself. And if this company is being sold, then it's a public recognition of incompetence and mistrust in the state you run. And this must not turn privatisation into a substitute for an inefficient economic model and obviously it is an inefficient economic model because it needs to look for alternative solutions. Because you were talking about investment. So investments in 2012 are 110m euros less than in 2011 Industrial production dropped 5.5%. The consumption's down. Exports are down. I'm lucky the import's down a bit. But the government can bring anything because it has a political monopoly. But if decisions are made so strategically important only because there is a political monopoly then it is evil for the state. The greatest is said evil is a financial monopoly. But there's only one greater evil than that and it's a political monopoly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46401	Thank you. The next replica is Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the value of Croatia's security assets. Perhaps the biggest problem with this law is that it was always wanted to push through the thesis that there is no list of assets, there is. However, what is controversial is its value. From two, three percent to one percent property. So you have companies that are state-owned whose value is minus because their burden is so much that they're actually negative. But as far as Croatia's insurance is concerned, we can look through it at the prism of this entire property of the state. So Croatia's insurance has a lot of property in terms of real estate and should be assessed because it was acquired in different times. And many of these properties have already been written off with a high percentage, depreciation etc. However, their market value and useful value is far higher than that of the bookkeeping and therefore, given the positions on the market, Croatia's insurance is worth far more and none... The house can't judge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you should go from real estate to real estate and evaluate. But it is very interesting that Croatia's insurance from its portfolio has lost the largest state-owned company. Is that a great preparation for privatisation? Instead of giving her everything that's worth more because her daughter needs to be painted with ducats and not take her ducats. So let's let go of that story. So this law unfortunately leads to something which is privatization away from the eyes of the public. And secondly, what is most valuable in Croatia was privatized between 2000 and 2003. INA, HT control package, Business Bank, Split Bank. And look at what the revenues from the privatisation were from 2000 to 2003, and what they were from 2003 to 2011, and that's where every political debate ends, they're exact indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46403	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46404	Thank you very much. Well, of course, fellow Shuker that the biggest problem is an assessment of the value of a particular company and there are those who have no value. However, when it comes to Croatia's insurance, it persistently ignores and silences the fact that Croatia's insurance has related companies, shares in other equity and stock companies that there are 50% mandatory pension funds. That he has Lloyd's insurance, that he has insurance in... that there are 450 technical cells. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That only a company whose book value is less than the market value. So only in Ban Jelačić Square from Croatia is the insurance facility with 8 thousand and 520 squares. And you saw the other day the opening was a Ban center that was in a far worse position, it's worse and it's built and it doesn't have that much tradition and the way it's built, so at which the price was sold there. And I think the accounting value is 190 million kuna... Of course, which believer he's in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that 50%... and what is the value in Miramarska or that building to from Loid's insurance. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But in every city, every square of every city's most valuable property is Croatia's insurance. And not to mention the core bussines he carries with him, as much as he can be successful and can actually be financed within 4 to 5 years by all of them, all the revenue that can be obtained from the current sale as announced by the Government so that she can get from it, from such one sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46405	Thank you, too. Next replica, Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46406	Thank you very much. Your opening part or the first part of the exhibition was very picturesque and theoretically very correct, correct yes. Clearly, economic legality is such that if you don't have economic growth, you don't have stability, you have nothing else. However, we must start from the existing state, the state in which we are today and why we do not have economic growth for five, five, six years, five years, since 2008. 20 years ago we started privatization, first we supported all the property, then we started privatisation. Conversion and privatisation was such a process that in fact very much value disappeared through the privatisation of the day. And our constitution says property is binding. So you can't just have property obligations. So you can't just have property, you have to manage it well, but it does. If you can't manage well, then you'll settle. And today in this situation where we are today with great indifference, with economic instability, with fiscal, or financial, state instability, with a high deficit still, even if we are trying to bring it down into some real frameworks to satisfy at least that other fiscal rule that your deficit is not greater than the interest you have to pay on loans as a state, then we are really in a big problem and then we can't theoretically discuss it like this. Then you have to do something else when you're in a situation where you can no longer tax-load the citizens or the economy, then you have to go into such activities that you or better manage the state property from which you will receive income, or if that is not the case, if you have to invest a lot to get income, then in one part of that property you will alienate and sell, etc. Unfortunately, the high values that we have invested in infrastructure over the past 20 years are the loans that come on the charge. It's not a value you can have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46407	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46408	Thank you very much. Thank you for estimating that it was a correct introduction and your replica is extremely correct so that the answer will also be in that sense. In the memory of how to convert and privatise in most cases, it causes me to feel sick, but it can't cause me another new and more extreme way of such a similar conversion and privatisation because you can't make up for an inefficient model by selling it. The lack of fiscal capacity of the state can be compensated by selling, can only be replaced by economic growth and only by economic growth, nothing else. What's going to happen, you're going to sell some state property, six months or seven will seem to be working and you're going to be in a worse situation after a while than you were before that decision because there's no economic growth. And besides, when the budget was adopted on the basis of economic growth, the budget was adopted on the basis of less inflation and in such circumstances there is no growth, and there is more inflation, there are fewer revenues than planned, and even inflation revenues are imagined in these revenues. How bad it is then, and it is necessary to look for alternative models of economic policy and borrowing, not just reprogrammes. So we have a way of, which is being refinanced, why it's being reprogrammed, which is what restructuring is for, rather than finding a way to overcome the crisis until economic growth is realized, and it's not a solution to the sale. This is certainly not with what needs to be sold, but it must not be strategic on which the state can earn and make money that should not be sold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46409	Thank you, too. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46410	Thank you very much. Comrade Marić, you have been in the debate quite well and cut down and politics, but also this law in every part of his discussion, and indeed we have been witnessing for a year and a half serving one policy, in my opinion at the lowest level or at the simplest level that is reflected in the fact that something is constantly being monetized or taxes are being introduced or fiscalized or something must be collected. There is no sign of intelligence or innovation, creativity, you simply raise 2% of VAT, you take 20 billion to Croatian citizens, and you are a successful government. But there's always an explanation or a preparation for it. Now all the time you're saying no, you have to. So we have to sell Croatia insurance, HPB, take the new Law on Railways, Parliament van-Government inside, sell HZ-Cargo, we don't want to introduce any more traffic policies, nothing, nothing. And what we need for it is a tool. There it is, this law. Very clearly, we shut down AUDI, we establish DUUDI, a duo cheater for the Croatian regiment and put everything in the hands of one man. He will now be master of life and death in Croatian, let's say unprivatised, dead capital. And of course, the law of emergency procedure because it's been the Van-Government Council in there again for a year and a half, and it's not an accident. That's why I say there's not two readings or there's going to be extra why. We'll just testify again to the simplest solutions, sell anything that can be sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46411	Thank you. The next replica... and yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Apparently, counterpart Boric seems to have no solution for the economic crisis, so that's not true. Economic policy has very effective instruments to get out of the crisis, only these are not the instruments that apply. It can't be an increase in tax rates an instrument to get out of the crisis. No, this has never yet been recorded by either theory or practice that increasing the tax burden has contributed to getting out of the crisis. On the contrary, just the other way around. However, inconsistencies and access to state-owned enterprises can be seen from each case. Take, for example. Zagreb Airport, which was unfairly and completely irrationally placed in a concession. The Zagreb airport is capable, able to self-indemnify itself without the government's guarantee of $250m. If it is not able the Director to resign immediately and.... And imagine coming a concessionaire who promises works of a certain value, engages in domestics and pays consultants that after giving in a concession they reduce these works, that they are not going into underground works as far as they were going to go. And then the government gives a guarantee to the concessionaire, and it doesn't guarantee its state-owned company. Such a policy cannot be effective in state-owned enterprises. What she did last night, we saw the opening of the Cro bus, the production of Croatian buses, with no exceptions. It's an example of investment. No government, just don't mind there'll be more investment like that. But we are trying to find ways to give some priority and this law also foresees giving the advantage of the market compared to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46413	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46414	Thank you. Here, Mr. Maric, I would really like to agree in a good part of your thesis especially when it comes to Croatia's insurance and the Croatian Postman's Bank, although I think that perhaps in a little bit, in some way you've looked at some historical phases of state property management because we've had that ominous Privatisation Fund, the infamous Privatisation Fund that's probably remained in the synonymous robbery of the Croatian state for decades or ten, fifteen years, and then we've had this unfortunate AUDIO for which, in fact, most of the citizens in this country since it came into existence, so until now no one's heard, and now there's this state office and inside it's another new legal person, that center. And I think that actually, and this whole thing together I would agree with you shows actually that there is no strategy. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia was also a small country, a small country with few inhabitants, and it is amazing that in a small country with few inhabitants and with a large state administration no one can really count that property anymore, establish its value, underline the line and finally establish some balance. But unfortunately, that's the way it is. I think the example of setting up this center is actually an example of one if he doesn't know what he'd do then he's set up some kind of commission. This government thus establishes powerful centres, agencies and transfers to them in fact what itself as a state apparatus does not know and cannot and does not have the obvious ability to do. But when it comes to that part of state property specifically related to tourism when it comes to the Coopers, the Basko Field, about the various state properties that are left, I think we should find a way to finally find those properties and actually start that cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46415	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46416	Of course, counterpart Djurovic would make those properties, although there are now owners only because they are not related by ownership. Well, even natural persons don't deal with property. You have in your building towards your apartment and the joint rooms are not treated as the law provides, let alone the large tourist companies. But I think when organised and determined, there are 100 managers in Croatia who will really be conscious and honest and correct that within two years each of these tourist companies can prepare to be worth threefold more than today with the help of the Government without any problems, especially if they are treated as in the pre-departure settlement process against some private companies. No problem would be solved and triple value would be within two years. When you say I'm not saying anything, I don't have to do anything about it, it's just that something's not about the agenda. But I said that models of conversion and privatisation that cause me nausea often. Therefore, and I was there for six months and the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so you see this is the only report that someone made up while the Supervisory Board was at all. I was only six months old. Founding committees, commissions, institutions don't solve problems. He says one saying, "When you see a snake, don't start a commission, but react right now." Well, the state of government is like a snake near us, and we've been watching and smiling for 23 years. Not for a year, 23 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46417	Thank you, too. Miss twilight replica, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Maric, here he is listening to your debate you are really right when a political monopoly takes away the right to professional competence then there is an expression of political competence that is really not an instrument for getting out of the crisis. You've been talking about these things for example now of this bill, and so far, a series of laws have been passed that really undo professional competences, so I have to tell you when you're talking about people who are being placed at this hour in some management society and who have no idea, I can't, so it's best to sell everything so that people don't embarrass themselves. For example, one major importance is the protection of animal health, as well as the protection of human health. So, let's say the Agricultural Inspection Act brought in that a cattle inspector could be someone who's graduated from a three-year Faculty of Agriculture or Agriculture, has four years of employment. But at the same time, he decides that cattle inspector on animal welfare, on food safety, on half the line of slaughter among other things. But these rights and expertise are taken away from the doctors of veterinary medicine who, through their studies, have been a university since five years ago, now six years have been listened to by absolutely more semesters, all areas related to the work of these professional inspectors. However, we can warn when the government decides what they do and there is no God to prevent them from doing so, will humiliate everyone, and will exalt themselves. Until when, I really don't know. I think it's gonna take a while and it's really sad. It's not just one example I've told you, there's more, and it seems to me that corruption is no longer mentioned, and it's not mentioned because apparently the government considers it its the political competences but also the power to discuss it more is forbidden. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] It must no longer be mentioned, and it exists very much in every pores of this society. Unfortunately, we're in the middle of something. Here's one final please. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you, colleagues of the twilight.]] We've been barging all that fighting for three years, and what we've come to now. [[Invader Batinić: So it takes too long.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46419	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the worst proposals of the law come under the auspices of the political monopoly, and of course they are the best quality to bring into consensus. And you were talking about human resources. There's no more important segment than choosing people. Either you chose failure or you chose success. It's like signpost two you have, success-failing. And you're just saying this one or that one. It's so different from a man with his knowledge, his ability, his relationship, I would even dare say that in Croatia there was not so much a question or ignorance as moral degradation, lack of conscience. If you wanted to be successful, and if you want to be successful today, you have to say goodbye to your conscience and then you can be successful. That's the problem. And then comes the problem of both incompetent and under-experienced and uneducated. Well, we see each and every one of us getting a chance to show off being incompetent. Most are promoted to levels of their incompetence. And then it's a year and a shift. And nothing happens, just a lot of severance. This is wrong, and here when it is predicted that someone can be the head of the centre with a completed university study and only 5 years of experience without any experience in leading positions is not good, it is not a good solution and cannot possibly get a solution. He may seem too old to a 28 - year - old man, but when he comes in a little later in the year, he'll see how young and inexperienced he was.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46421	Thank you, we get it. The last replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46422	You see, fellow Maric, kill the snake. You will pay the fine, certainly, even though it may attack you even though they say the snakes don't attack if you don't stop at it. However, here is Article 2 of this Law, which states that the availability of state property implies the right to alienation, burden, restriction and denial of rights. And then we have the law that we see wonders as well as Article 52. The constitution that says this: "The sea, seashore and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance for which the law stipulates that they are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia." The law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia, therefore, are State property, can be used and exploited. So there's no alienation in the Constitution. Now you are likely to be subject to the Constitution regardless of the changes that Shakespeare has made by joining two articles but this is not Article 52. Now the basic issue is the urgency of the procedure, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the intention and everything else that is related to this law clearly does not stand. And as far as the highway is concerned, the fact that not only highways are the only wealth available to the Republic of Croatia. One of the bigger ones certainly is. People are the greatest wealth of this country, so I'm surprised that here according to this law, as will be available to agricultural land, highways, Croatia by insurance, forests, waters at last may not have a single article or a saying in which the inhabitants of this beautiful country will also be placed. So here's the CEO of DOUDI's gonna sell all of us together, and that's gonna be the end of it. Because he has such power with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46423	Thank you very much. We have an answer, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46424	Thank you very much. My colleague Vinkovic, all of which we have come to today's position and she is worse than you can see at first sight, she is deep, layered and extremely bad. But it's not hopeless and it's not hopeless. But you must always find the right model for the right condition. The current model does not match this current state. By selling Croatia insurance or highways by giving in concessions, new cancellations follow. And on the day when, that is, it is already being prepared even though it is not known whether or not a list will be sold for release in Croatia is going to be provided for 1200 people. Who do they want? The burden of the state budget, and the new owner will boast of increased efficiency and high profits. That's how it goes for highways. And it is ignored always, often stressed, neglecting employment. We increased unemployment and reduced employment. That's the problem. And this privatisation process does not solve the problem but worsens even more and there will be even more unemployed and even less employees. Well, 2011. 1.2% of the employees worked for one pensioner, but today, 1.17% for one pensioner. It's already gotten worse in the last year. And it's an unsustainable condition. And yet the vice-president of the economy will only report to us tomorrow morning, and he will explain to us why what he announced yesterday didn't come true today. It announces an economic growth of 2%, and then it says we expected there would be no such growth, so in 3 months, we expect a decline. So the most responsible person for the state of the economy in Croatia turns into Zoran Vakul to explain to us what time it will be and why it was not as he announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46425	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the debate was shared by Boro Grubisic and Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Pejnović, instead of the minister. Here is listening to the presentation of the replica and answers to the replica of Mr. Goran Marić to the Prime Minister and also to the Vice-President of the Government, he would recommend that everyone in Croatia be included, and especially those who truly understand themselves in the economy, the economy and everything that arises from it, and also Mr. Goran Marić, who actually told the truth about Croatia and the status and state in Croatia today. And as he said and began a little bit about snakes, neither must this power. I would say to stand on every snake's head, mostly to the Croatian snake, and here he stands. Stops and Croatian highways, stops and Croatia's insurance, Croatia's postal bank everything that is somehow Croatian. And what's all this about? There's a song that is well known to our people called "My Homeland" and that says in one verse "I listen to the news, I count the steps" so it expresses anxiety in that state of war in the 1990s and I really listen to the newspaper last night on the news that the government gave up on distributors for its institutions from HEP from its own company. So there's HEP down the electricity price by 6%. However, those who offer even cheaper electricity thus remain the distributors of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Does that make any sense? Well, I don't think so. So first of all we need to know that the electricity price is up 30% then down 6 we play the same principle as the fuel price. Lift 20 lipes down 6 lips, lift 20 lips, drop 6 lips every week every Monday we have changes on Tuesday. But I didn't mean to talk about it because it's not the subject of this law, it's what I asked yesterday, and Mr. Pejnović was on the board, so he realized that I was the most curious on the board and most commented on this law. Therefore, the law on the abolition of AUDIO which submitted the report to the Croatian Parliament, the establishment of a central state office as to whether it is already called or as the DUDI and the Restructure and Sales Centre say, as to what would be called CERP or CREP, I do not know, therefore, whether or not the duodi and the crepe that would then have in their portfolio or in all of this all the properties and assets available to the Republic of Croatia. with the fact that the Parliament is excluded from the debate and decision-making process than all surrenders are centralized and power is concentrated on the Government of the Republic of Croatia or on the persons elected as director and state office and that of the CERP or the chip whatever you want. And what the law says in Article 35 is that it is the Director of the Restructure and Sales Centre, so it is called the Director who has graduated from college and has five years of working experience. For what? Is that a doctor of medicine? No, and I believe it won't be because it doesn't say which college says no work experience, etc. It might almost be said that a job such as the government’s custom to draw jobs is also known in advance who it is intended for. What Mr. Maric has to say and noted is Article 2 and the availability of state property which implies the right to 4 o. So 4 about alienation, burden, restriction and waiver of rights. None of this is right. The alienation means stealing, says the unknown burglar has estranged from a 100-pound kiosk of cigarettes, alienation. The burden, therefore, is a new burden on those who are in the register that has AUDIO now has 300,000 registered and I don't know whether this state office or this CERRP is going to sign them up at all. The constraint, is it also a noun what she's talking about? What's the phone book about? The fact that companies or anything called state property are limited by some kind of a business move, etc. And finally giving up the right. So the state can give up its rights to its property. I think the denial of the right refers first of all to those who, during the Yugoslav rule, have been alienated from property, so it is still in the property of the state of Croatia and should be returned to those who have applied in due time, and we know that it was 11.1998, and since then, no further application can be made. So, really, when we look behind the hill, what does this law weigh and what it can do when it is adopted on Friday by gentlemen from the Kukriku Coalition which can happen and what powers belong to one man or several persons in the Republic of Croatia, then it is not only concessioning, but monetizing Croatian highways that were built by the Croatian people, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for whom they have all given up together. Then, indeed, the criminal sale of Croatia's insurance, including the Croatian Post Bank, and in order to settle and create alibis for the government's failed economic policy. She really is a failure and shows no movement. On the contrary, the movements are down. Not worse. They don't even stand, they don't even stagnate those indicators. It's what they're going down. In all those parameters, according to all those indicators he was talking about, here is HDZ representative Goran Maric before me. However, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which was at the time to say HDZ's rule, has made it great to say the misdeeds. And that is why I am very happy with the speech and the state of the Republic of Croatia, but I must say that this Croatian Privatisation Fund, which is also privatised and which has gone into grants both Telekom and INA and many others, is at what cost. On what terms. The INA director retires with a million- and 100,000-euro severance payment because, and everyone is satisfied because he says well they got rid of him because he's incompetent. So who has a pension, an severance of a million and 100,000 euros? And in the end, if AUDI's been doing a bad job, what are the sanctions? What he says, again, I quote Marić's responsibility is responsible, so the powers are also borne by responsibility. And what is the responsibility of this bad work in AUDI? Nothing. They're going to redistribute to the state office. Everyone will be told by the officers, i.e. to redistribute to a state office that will eventually reduce the number of employees later. Is that right, Mr. Pejnović, as you've explained to us with 280 that he's going to have, now he's got 50 plus 230 AUDI, it's 280, he's going to be reduced to 200 in a few years, so I was glad that somehow, in some way, he's going to reduce the number of people who list and manage state property. But not the way it says in Article 2 in such a way that alienation, burden, restriction, and waiver of rights are carried out. But rather the opposite, that the capital, the property of the Republic of Croatia, should I say fertilise, be an incentive for further development. But those strategies about how there's no state property. We have no guidelines, no strategies, no ideas. And this government doesn't have it either. And that's the problem. Mr. Vinkovic, continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46427	Okay, here, I'll try it a little faster. We used to have Octopus arms, now we have nothing bad to say, but in the way of managing state property, state enterprises, etc., now we have heads of snakes that obviously need to be cut down but not in this way that is even anti-constitutional. But in a way that primarily rationalises one more responsible business of all these societies, both in a more rational and in a function of a state-owned economy. I'll remind you we had APN, so we had APPN, so we had AUDIO, now we'll have DUDI. Someone said here we'll have a duo cheater. Here, however, there is no problem with the law itself and the intention to dispose of state property. But the problem is that the entire availability of state property goes into the hands of one man. I have nothing against Mr. Pajnovic or the HDSSB Club has against man but it has against such a way of making state property available. So we create a new parallel system, then we don't need the Croatian government, which will give us, which Milanović, Ostojić, Linić or who doesn't know when we have DUDI that will have all the state property. In this way, it will be available to Croatian citizens. Because if we sell highways, if we sell Croatia's insurance, if we sell agricultural land, what will Jakovina do? Which has the right to sell without invitation to tender in that article of the Agricultural Land Act. Who now has the agricultural land of DUUDI or the Ministry of Agriculture? Or the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Or the Parliament? Who? Under this law, only Mr. Pejnović. If he's the head of that office. Not Milanović, not Linic, not Jakovina, not us here. Only one man who will decide on the boards along the way, about the salaries of a single whole structure that looks like this, just to put it in the right place. He had a similar AUDI. And he didn't solve anything. Neither did the real estate agency, nothing. But especially when it comes into the eyes, these articles are 19th and 26th because I'm going to base myself on local self-government. So in terms of this decentralisation promised by plan 21, not to mention alienation in replicas etc., where the Republic of Croatia and the State Office are exempt from paying taxes on the sales of real estate taxes, other taxes, communal fees. Therefore, the competence of local self-government units and other public administrations in relation to ownership and management and availability of state assets. So, why do we need local self-government under this law? This is the law above all laws, this is the political bible of one person's governance throughout the country. Nothing will be held accountable, neither to the government nor the Parliament,...a man individual on behalf of Pejnovic now. It could be anyone. And that's why the HDSSB club is against this law. So I'm also calling on the mayors of SDP and the mayors, although there are fewer of them now, they've lost the election here, but to understand that they can't raise hands for this law that reduces income to their own local self-government unit. Is it normal, whether this law is in conformity with the statute, with all that is stated not in Plan 21 but also in the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Is this a new form of conversion and privatisation in a Croatian way for which no one will end up in a fairy tale so that it will continue to be worth who is a cave, a cave and who is going to cave, and Croatian citizens will stay hungry together with the pensioners, along with that army of unemployed who are getting more and more every day. These are the answers and these are the consequences that this law will cause. Short and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46428	Thank you. At the presentation of counterpart Grubisic Dragutin Lesar, the Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46429	We have been trying for days in the Assembly on such important laws as this to point out to the promoters some good and bad solutions, to express fear, doubtfulness, to warn that perhaps better listening or accepting arguments would be useful for the state rather than for the political options. But it's not working. In Croatia the last two months the only thing that has been going through the media are the ideological topics that left and right throws and closes space, and... today after ideological topics there are only sex scandals still getting public attention. Such a law, which regulates 34 billion kuna, has a very low interest in the euro. For example, you mentioned Croatia's insurance and the possibility of selling it. Croatia's insurance has retained profits from earlier years 600 million kuna and at the moment of sale and potential difficulties a private new owner has the right to withdraw. We sell Croatia insurance with 600 million retained profits, it doesn't concern anyone. Croatian highways in concession or leaving the government, quote title from one week today, from a member of the government. They say they will stay in Croatia, no one will take them outside Croatia. Well, we already have concessions on highways in Croatia, which is why you're worried at all. But then there are no extensions, what are the conditions of concessioning? If the concessionary Zagreb-Macelj does not make the planned profit, the profit, the state must make up 80, 120 million, as the last tranche was, 80 million. And secondly, when a private concessionaire is successful in managing the roads made by the state, that means that the conditions of the concession will be such that it will be worth it and not to the Croatian State. Now explain to me how it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46430	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46431	I don't know what it's going to sound like, but you were talking about our media and what our readers are interested in, etc., but this is all we're saying here and what you said, it really looks like the government's sex scandal towards the people of Croatia. So I have nothing to say to you, except to confirm what you said yourself because no concessionary of anything or any company, any company will not buy, or go to a concession unless it earns. That's pure profit. According to this, the toll goes up, going to lay off workers from the Croatian highways. One small company that had already been announced from abroad that would buy Croatia... has 12 times a smaller portfolio, and would buy Croatia insurance. So David buys Goliath. I mean, these are nakaradas, these are the nakaradas that this really government is doing. That's why I'm saying, this really looks like what you said, a real sex scandal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46432	Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46433	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Grubisic, you spoke of giving up the right and it is true that this law is also a prerequisite for the state to give up certain rights to state property, and the best thing is that we in the assembly give up the right to discuss state property more at all. This is actually forgiveness for at least two years from state property. I guess it won't all work out in those two years to break up and get rid of it, or maybe it'll be better than it's been since it's been since it's been so honest. But I would say something here if there was a lack of rights here and it was denying the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the end they were the most important, at least that's what we all talk about. Because I've got just one letter in front of me where, let's say, there's a state-owned apartment that the state sells to an apartment user who still lives in a person with 100% disability. So says one article of the contract says the seller sells the apartment as his out-of-book property, excluding any liability of the seller for material or legal deficiencies, and the buyer waives any objections with the basis of those shortcomings. It's a model we can expect now that the state is taking over all the real estate and attitudes I've already talked about here today, in which people live, and now it's being taken over by local self-government. There has been talk here about compensation of local self-government, so this is a model that can be expected by Croatian citizens from state bodies in the management of state property where they will be practically driven. I guess if they don't buy that apartment, I guess they'll be forced out, I guess exorcists will come out of their apartments and people will come out of them. And you know who he'll come to? They will come to the chiefs, the mayors to take care of them, to deliver them after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46434	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46435	Thank you, colleague Hrg. You have helped with your example to warn of these four sad nouns. So, which describes the availability of state property, so it says it implies the right to four "o". So estrangement, burden, constraint and waiver of rights. Four horsemen of the apocalypse in connection with the availability of state property of our country, our country, our Republic of Croatia. And indeed, you'll see in two and a half years when this government is no longer a government then you'll see how much they say in Slavonia as much as it was, i.e. how much there has been bankrolling in these four registers written here, which implies the law of the Office of State and of the Centre in connection with the availability of state property of the Republic of Croatia. And indeed, here is Mr. Vinkovic, in his speech, said and quoted Royce as the man who put up the pit, the man. So it will be in these two and a half years as long as it is, if this law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46436	Replica Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46437	Yeah, around the highway, about the concessions. I'd say it like this. That it's easy to turn the people on. It's not a problem in the referendum if it's called. The problem is that we simply don't want to tell each other the truth and that it manipulates all this time with the public. So next year's state, i.e. Croatian highways and highway Rijeka – Zagreb must return 7 billion kuna. In three years, two and a half billion euros. Now can they do it? I can't, gentlemen. So, there's a bankruptcy of these institutions. Who has to take that commitment? It's gotta be taken over by the state. Can we do that with this year's deficit? We can't. Who concluded these harmful loans? Look at the wonders that reach exactly the half of this government's mandate. So they concluded the former prime minister and concluded the former maritime, transport and communications minister from Zadar. And now what can we do? We can politicize, but let's just say that next year, it's almost 1 billion euros. Our people, well you know very well they don't want to pay 20 kuna to pass through the Biokovo tunnel. They say 20 kuna is too much. We in Istria 5236 kuna tunnel through Učka pay 29 kuna as if it wasn't much, and we know that a Buik concessionary doesn't pay the state or VAT. On the other hand, it's 3 billion and 200 million euros if it comes suddenly in the first month. What can you do for three billion euros? You can build 500 to 600 km of highway. So it's like you get 500 or 600 kilometers of highways the same day. Well, it's pretty clear that this concessionaire's gonna make a living. But there's only one thing I want to say. Either we decide on something I wish we didn't have, or we just dance all the time on the edge of the sink, and maybe we go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46438	Replication response, Boro Grubisic. ... Allow your colleague Grubisic to respond. [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46439	Comrade Cain, I'd like you to explain to me how the government buys 1740 cars, how HEP buys 400 cars, and there's no money whether or not it's what you're talking about. So is there one here in our government that doesn't have a car, a cell phone, a free phone, a secretary and everything else. Well, I know we Parliamentarians don't have that. But let's just count the number of what he's talking about, and you'll see that the debt of the Croatian highways can be paid off. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46440	And to the presentation of colleagues Vinkovic, Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46441	Honored Madam President Vinkovic and Grubisic. They are expensive, and in some ways let them understand about this together. It's a problem with the name of this process whether it's a concession, a monetization. It's sultanization, sultanization. All power in the hands of one man shall do as he pleases. And basically, it's about bypassing all these procedures of the rule of law that can be influenced by DORH or by a repressive apparatus. The extraction under the influence of the repressive apparatus in a way that in the past law in real estate sales and in this today is said to be sold according to the government's decision i.e. one man whom He wills, after He determines, at the market price which he determines, there is no public tender. And here comes the second law today. He says he can bow for free, Mukta. There is no free in this country on behalf of me, on behalf of the people. There's no free. Let there be a contest at least get one kuna, and the government essentially as a concept of its own in some way furbaluka creates one no... That's what I'm saying to Vinkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been calling it Dudek for miles who's gonna do whatever the government wants and it's gonna be as good if Dudek does what he doesn't tell him, and you know who's gonna get the hang of it, Regica. And if it's not good, then whoever commands the government won't be responsible for anything, it'll be Dudek's fault. It's one game, a game to bypass all state institutions by counting and the repressive apparatus that today is all right with what is said, she went, no more, constantly retreating and some HDZ, who took what and so on. Gentlemen from the party are the heroes of the poor who went to battle shoes. Your personnel from the communist alliance who were directors they took, they saw that they have stayed in the alliance of communists, either in the party or entered HDZ or are not anywhere [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] They're the ones who are 200 or 300 families, and HDZ are the poor [[Break Zgrebec: Kolega Marasović!]] who died in the battlefields. [[Sit down Zgrebec: Kolega Marasović please sit down!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46442	This other part wasn't a replica, but I'm not going to give you a warning because it's no use to you. Replication response, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46443	Here is a colleague, Marasovic, who was members of the SDP of Croatian defenders, so we don't get into it. And there were poor women there, etc. It is still my duty since they remain silent. But it doesn't matter. But let's go back to this law. Well, I'd be raising an injury to the Rules of Procedure if someone offended me, and he wouldn't be silent and sitting like you keep quiet all the time while Croatians create this government that creates this Croatia has nothing to do with it. And please shut up while I'm talking, if the president won't shut you up according to the Rules of Procedure. This law is the new Law on Conversion and privatisation where Croatian citizens will again remain naked underpants. And that's it. It's the only fact. Let's sell out what we have as some say economic experts have no money. He's got money, he needs to know how to find him on more favourable terms than he's ever been taken before. But this law is anti-constitutional, directed against the very material wealth of the Republic of Croatia, directed against local self-government. One law states that someone is freeing someone from communal fees. Well, it can only be the city, not the law. It's local self-government, not law. People of God, so where do we live? What kind of country is this? What kind of government is this? And you raise your hand on Friday and we're just celebrating the victory and the celebration of democracy. This is a disaster we're doing from this country. Read the law before you raise your hand and see where it leads. This law is anti-constitutional, it can be taken immediately by the Constitutional Court for consideration. Yeah, yeah, it's absolutely fine. And you may be ashamed to raise your hand on a law like this on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46444	A colleague of Vinkovic's!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46445	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46446	So what kind of debate is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46447	Well, that's a debate that resembles this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46448	Please sit down. Thanks to you and others, the Parliament has such a reputation On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš. [[Intruder Vinkovic: Perhaps thanks to you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46449	Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the State Office, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has been treating state property for the past 20 and a few years as no private person is concerned. Not only is money not property as spoken and placed in the Croatian public but it also turns out that property is not important or at least state property is not important, and obviously this property could be important to someone else. It is completely incomprehensible that during these 20 and a few years we have not created mechanisms for managing state property. This, of course, is not easy because of the large amount of this property, because the legal status of that property has been going through various stages but it cannot be taken away from the impression that some did not respond to the management of this property's office and it is clear that they could then probably do some procedures that were not in the interest of Croatia but in their interest. Unfortunately, this is not only the case with the property of the Republic of Croatia, but mainly with the property of the units of local self-government. Well, most local self-government units have problems with the list of units of local self-government and this problem is equally almost manifested at these levels that I know. For example, the City of Zagreb has been constantly opening up for 10 years as a major problem, and the problem is not solved there, and I know that it is a similar situation in some other units of local self-government especially for those where there is a large amount of property, so it is not easy to enter. And that is why it is good to approach the overall arrangement of this job and of course it is logical that in some way for the sake of clarity and simplicity at least in the first stage of the management of this property and its management will be uniquely united as was the ambition of the previous Government who brought such strategic documents and wrote down that ambition but did not, of course, implement it. That is why it is logical to support this bill which is likely to have difficulties in implementing as all laws dealing with such complex issues and for the first time fully regulate these complex issues and have difficulties in implementing them, but I will talk about it later. Certainly, the fundamental objectives to be achieved by this law are to preserve the assets of the Republic of Croatia in the long term and what is particularly important is to try to generate economic growth using this asset as leverage. I hope that, in that sense, the government, or its bodies, will be very successful. The initial step in all this is to establish a register of state property, so as it is not logical that we do not have a fiscal register during all these years, it is not logical that we do not have a central register of state property, but we expect, of course, that by establishing this register which will be made available to the Croatian public on the basis of the principles declared in this law, we expect that, of course, the availability of this property will be simpler and will be easier to follow by the competent authorities, including of course this Assembly. As far as the assets are concerned, this law has the full support of the HNS Representatives' Club. What opens up a little more complex issues and management of state-owned companies. This law raises a number of issues concerning the possible overlap of competences under the high powers of the State Office for the Management of State Property and, of course, still existing competences under the Law establishing ministries, competent ministries and, in that part, the implementation of this law could expect permanent difficulties. It is not logical that DUUDI, based on the high operational powers of the implementing powers it receives under this law, also has prominent supervisory functions. The merger of operational, enforcement and supervisory powers is not logical and there may also be difficulties in the application of this law. a with regard to reporting should certainly stand and I think it is a much more relevant observation than these catastrophic announcements and expectations heard on both sides of the Croatian Parliament's participation in the reporting. The bill does not state that the government will submit the reports to the Croatian Parliament once a year based on the State Office's report. and not only is this a matter of state property management, but it is almost only understandable for companies of strategic significance in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake, and it is almost only understandable that the management of such large assets and so large economic potentials of public enterprises will be without the proper role of the Croatian Parliament's supervisory role, so it is not logical that it stands here and it should be amended or it should certainly be monitored by law enforcement in that sense and put that provision into the law. In fact, once again pulling the parallel with the city of Zagreb, which we can naturally think about about its administrative capacities, whatever we want, but two things should be highlighted, and should be accepted as a model, of course it concerns all other units of local and regional self-government, so once a year, a report on the state of property of the city of Zagreb is submitted to the Assembly of Zagreb, where reports are also updated on the issue of a list of city property that has not yet been made and twice a year the mayor of the city of Zagreb is not the mayor of Zagreb but the management of the holding office twice, and in fact this Holding is a parallel with state-owned enterprises of strategic interest. And those two things should certainly be found in the law, if not now because of the time seal we're in, then certainly in the perspective. Otherwise, just for the sake of information on how we do this, the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the business of state-owned enterprises of strategic interest in 2010 for the first time, for the last time, and I hope never again. In fact, the Croatian Government made a decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest in which it stopped and the obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on business not only on the list but also on the business of those companies, so that in 2010 the Croatian Parliament would first postpone reporting from the end of August at the end of September, send one report to the Croatian Parliament and then abolished that obligation and from the decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest would exclude the provision of the annual reporting of the Croatian Assembly, which would certainly not be good, and it would certainly be very important that the Croatian Parliament, once a year or more often, report not only on state property management but also on the business of these companies of particular strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. So this law as the first attempt to fully regulate this issue certainly has its own shortcomings. The club of HNS representatives will, in particular, monitor the implementation of this law on these issues which I have been talking about here, so these three issues of possible difficulties in implementing this law, but because of the hasty regulation of this issue, respecting the views that it should have been before, that for a year and a half of days it is too much to propose this law, respecting the fact that this law of this size that regulates such important and extensive matter should not be laws in the first reading or emergency procedure, but because of the urgency and the need to unblock the use of state property for the purpose of economic development of the country, the HNS representative club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46450	Thank you very much. And now we're going to move on to replicas. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46451	Thank you. Dear fellow Radoš here I thought something else but precisely this conclusion of your speech in order to unblock the state property of putting into office etc. How can we put something on when we don't even have a list of state property or we're just going to put in the parts that are important to us right now to discuss. Is it Croatia's insurance, whether it's highways, whether it's agricultural land, whether it's, whether it's much is it. On the other hand, one of the principles of liberalism or liberal democracy and also of the peoples was decentralisation in the basic sense of the word. However, here are the articles that I mentioned here that I am not saying now that we do not have an estimate of land, that we do not have a geodetic measurement of Croatia, where the properties are on, owned by the Republic of Croatia. But here are the articles of 19th and 26th where the Republic of Croatia and the State Office are free of everything. So the State Office will probably and hopefully earn a certain profit, so it will sell real estate, so it won't pay local self-government a tax on real estate sales, that 5%. Well, they won't even pay the utility fee, it's all in the law. So I'm wondering, all of you, and because of that, among other things, is one of my indignation and a little louder voice, but from a louder voice, nothing is going to happen, I'm asking how will sports, culture, cultural arts society, firemen in the field of local self-government units if we destroy it all by law and take all the local self-government and put power in the hands of one man? Mr. Prime Minister, I welcome you. When this is published in the National Journal of Milanovic is no longer the Prime Minister but will be you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46452	Thank you, answer, thank you very much. Please, time's up. The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46453	You, of course, have your own visor and look at the aspects of this Law that seem logical to you and I, of course, emphasized the aspects of this Law that could allow the development of the Republic of Croatia to be faster. This Law also states that one of the tasks of this office, i.e. the entire system, is to enable the realisation of strategic investment projects. Of course, this is based on the Strategic Investments Act that we brought here to the Croatian Parliament recently. And of course, it would have been good if the system had been so set up that we didn't have to pass those laws. That strategic and all other investment projects can take place on the basis of the legal infrastructure we have. But it's obviously not like that. When you look at the programme of economic recovery brought by the Government of Jadranka Kosor in April 2010. All that stands in this team, in this Law, in this Proposal of the Law, from making comprehensive records and uniting state property management, to drawing up a plan to give in the concession of part of the built highway infrastructure, preparing a plan for the privatisation of state-owned companies, all of this is in the Vlae programme, but none of it has been realised. Neither does this government, and especially not this government, because it is a habit, but because it is the only way out of the situation of the severe economic crisis that this country has been facing for more than 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46454	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46455	Dear counterpart Radoš, I fully agree with your conclusion that a provision should be put in place in this law that the Government is obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament on state property. I just don't agree that haste can't be installed until Friday, Saturday or Monday. I think you can, that you can submit an amendment and if you will, the Government will answer your request, or your request as a coalition partner. If this isn't done for sure, I agree with my colleague, Hrga, that it's Parliament's forgiveness of influence on state property, completely. If property owned by the Republic is actually property owned by all citizens of the Republic, it is entirely wrong for that property to be available to only one person. That it is in one hand and that the Croatian Parliament does not discuss it, that the Croatian Parliament does not decide. And that actually now one body is being placed above the ministries, above the ministers. After all, I said in a debate on behalf of the Club that a gentleman who will be or a lady who will be head of the DUUI would also be stronger than the prime minister, stronger and stronger than the Deputy Prime Minister, will also be stronger than the ministers. That, someone's here mostly... The SDP is being called out, there's no debate, there's no money, there's interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Citizens are asking for bonds to be exchanged. We know that in a year it's been put into banks of seven billion kunas. When we discussed the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank, it was then said that citizens were willing to capitalise with their resources on the Croatian Post Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46456	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46457	A colleague Vuksic is a good sign that you and I agree on something. And as for forgiveness of the Croatian Parliament from participation in the management of state property, I am sure that is not the case. Even if there's no provision, if it's not there, we'll see what happens to it. It'll happen eventually. Of course I agree with you that this should happen as soon as possible. And I call therefore on a representative of the government's bodies, so the head of the State's Office to respect this appeal to find both reports in the Law. And the State Property Management Report and the State Business Report of Strategic Interest, for that is for sure. And I'm saying, it'd be better if it was as soon as possible. As regards the power of this Office, the Office must certainly have powers high because the efficiency of management in the first phase of setting up each complex system often rests on centralised powers, which does not mean that there is no need in this respect to decentralisation, but it is certainly not an office that is above the ministries, or especially not above the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For all key decisions and in the segment of state property management and in the business of public enterprises, there are commissions above this office, two commissions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia sitting in ministers, and decisions of the highest importance shall be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of proposals of this body, i.e. by the relevant committees. Therefore, this body cannot be above the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46458	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46459	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Rados, you said that local self-government units have a problem with the list of assets, that they don't have it. It seems to me that the problem of local self-government in Croatia is that most people look at local self-government through the prism of the city of Zagreb, and the town of Zagreb, of course, is not comparable and cannot be compared to that. So here in my Križevci we have, say, a list of assets, we have exactly what we're going to do with what property, which is perspective, which is inoperable even though this property disappears from day to day because what I just said is happening, that the state takes it away from us. We are now actually in the local self-government fighting with state bodies and lawyers writing complaints, complaints and complaints because the State's Attorney's Office prescribes us entire parks, squares, I don't know what not. The ŽUCs, on the other hand, copy all the areas and then we write complaints, complaints, and thus local self-government struggles with the state administration to preserve property. I think it would be possible, I don't know if this is an announcement in your debate because you spoke on behalf of the club who is a member of the Kukuriku coalition, that we will soon get some agency for managing local self-government, so there will be no more local leaders, officials and councils, all of this will be settled in one state body, in one commission, in one agency that will know better than anyone in the Republic of Croatia. But I like that you've noticed what many of us have noticed, that the Parliament is exempt from any more decision-making or control over work, or management of state property. I hope so, I'm as fast as this law came along so I've quickly made the amendment, I've just suggested so here's what you suggest on behalf of the HNS club, you'll be more easily accepted or supported by the one I gave to the Parliament that remains the one who will still be able to get a report on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46460	Thank you. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46461	My colleague Hrg, I didn't notice it, it turns out that it was an accident, I was long ago, so 10 years ago initiated the process of accepting the report, i.e. giving the report to the Croatian Parliament who probably or may have contributed to the fact that a single report actually appeared in the Croatian Parliament, and then the government gave up. So it's kind of a part of my political position to me, and I didn't happen to notice it, and I absolutely hope it's not an introduction to some kind of centralised that should be stronger, and I think that at the level of the state, there should be decentralisation of its administrative functions, not just administrative functions. I am absolutely a proponent of strengthening local self-government, and in some given circumstances you can often do what you can and you know it so well. As for property owned by the town of Križevci, I hope that's what you said, even if it would be good to ask a representative of the opposition, since you are there in power now seems to me in the fourth term. But as for the donation of state property, I am the advocate of it, and it stands in this law. There is a possibility that the state will give its property to local self-government units. I was an advocate of it at a time when I had the opportunity to manage a part of the state property and they benefited from many cities and municipalities and it was not by any party principle, and it was of great benefit to your town, therefore the Križevci, because you are the foundation of that orientation that triggered the donation process of the military in the realization that was as I heard after any problem, but that is not the thing for which I am responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46462	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46463	Honored Madam Vice President. Comrade Radoš, we can do these shows but this is not a logic clock, Mr. Radosh, this is a Parliament and a hard political fight of rolled-up sleeves, normally verbally speaking. Therefore, no one should be offended or particularly experienced, especially in a stricter discussion. My colleague Radosh, however you say it makes sense for you to support this law. I also studied high school and had logic in premise gymnasium, sylogism, conclusion. How logical it is to you that de facto those Law on Strategic Investments and this current law is essentially one thing united only for tactical reasons, divided into two laws, that it is derived to its greatest extent, to the most important extent... the influence of the state-run repressive apparatus and that it is left without any control on the decision of a man who puts a dude in front of him, without the obligation of the Parliament to report it or the Croatian people via the Parliament, because we represent the Croatian... are citizens of Croatia. So he's getting under the control of the repressive apparatus, there's no reporting, that's why he doesn't answer to anyone, and he doesn't even have to tell anyone what he did, and we're gonna find out from the papers what someone did there. And you say it makes sense. Thank you very much, but I don't understand that logic of yours, I don't understand that logic of yours, but I do see it as someone... but this will come to our heads, it'll go against our heads because this government won't, I'm surprised to you colleagues on the left, so this government won't be forever, there'll be some government coming tomorrow that's going to act the same way on that splinter, and then you'll be making a fuss. It's not good for the state, I mean it. It's not good for the state, and this should be put in a way that there's some kind of control and responsibility for whoever's doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46464	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46465	I somehow understood from your presentation that you Parliament consider it a repressive apparatus if you thought it would be its supervisory role, then it is far from repression and certainly the Parliament must have its basic task to strengthen its supervisory functions in all areas as well as in this. But I hope that without the role of the Croatian Parliament there will be no difficulty in monitoring business, i.e. governance of state property based on the principles that are expressed here in this law which should of course be respected. The principle of predictability, the principle of effectiveness and the principle of accountability to which this law is called should certainly create the basis for a clear and transparent, and this also means a controlable management of state assets. But of course I repeat the role of the Croatian Parliament in this is irreplaceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46466	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46467	Thank you. Comrade Rados, you have tried to explain to us the urgency of the procedure, the urgency of regulation by this legislative proposal, and you have actually tried to tell us through the way I would say as an alibi for the failure or failure of this government for the past year and a half. And now, within 7 days, you adopt 2 laws – the Strategic Investment Act and this Law on State Property Management of Offices and Centres. It is also true how you said that twice in this House we discussed 70 companies of special state interest for the Republic of Croatia. Among them is Djuro Djakovic and Daruvarske spa, I am talking about Slavonic companies that are. And PIK Vukovar was also. But since he's gone and he's been wiped out of state property and we know how and why he doesn't show up anymore at this Croatian Assembly. I'd like to say that this haste to which this law is passed is actually a court of law. I may have said it too drastically, but the direct court with the gold cokes of the Croatian economy owned by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46468	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46469	My colleague Grubisic, I, in my own presentation, stressed the inexcusability, expressed doubts about the justification of these two dimensions of this law. So he's been late for a year and a half. All delays that are greater than half a year when responsibility is assumed in my opinion are unforgivable, but it's the fruit of a 20-year delay, so in that sense it's understandable I wouldn't say that it's an alibi, I wasn't setting it up as an alibi, I was trying to understand it. But I also pointed out that on a bad scale, laws like this that are heavy don't know how much but 30, 40, 100 billion kuna. So, state property. So they're so heavy, they're dealing with the management of that sum if it's not exhaustingly higher. We don't even have an estimate of the value of state property, that it's not good that these laws are passed by emergency procedure. So, I agree with you, but with your interpretation of the law, its disastrous consequences and everything that you have presented in your presentation, I disagree with my colleague Grubisic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46470	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46471	Thank you very much. My colleague, Radoš, you have shown that state property can be a lever of economic development. Well, otherwise in Croatia, two of the most important are ignored, in fact the only levers of development. It's money and state property. We don't understand the role of money as financial leverage or state property. I would support the urgency of the State Property Register Act. And that law had to precede this law. So the State Property Register Act would be an emergency too. But you have seen well, which is what I was saying in the debate that the Croatian Parliament is bypassing and that it is necessary to report once a year on how to manage the state property of the Croatian Parliament. Because if this is not a vote Friday, the Croatian Parliament will last discuss state property which is not good. Then what are we going to do if not about the most important? But also when it comes to negative indicators and the state of society, not only are they negative. The economic profession and within the framework of the Government have economic professions should not only ignore the poor state, but also some empirically proven things that are not in practice with us in such a way set up. In fact, GDP growth and unemployment rates are linked. If GDP falls, or if GDP growth is present, then the unemployment rate must also fall. We're growing GDP, unemployment is also falling. It also has an inverse empirical relationship between the unemployment rate and inflation rate. If the unemployment rate is higher inflation must be lower. Our unemployment rate is increasing, and inflation rates are increasing. That's all to be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46472	Thank you. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46473	So, fellow Maric, we certainly agree that state property and proper availability of it can be a lever or at least be helpful, it can be in the function of economic development. That's pretty much something you shouldn't be talking about. We have several really marked cases such as Brijuni and Coopers who have been unused for the last 15 years thanks to everything and everything from property-legal relations, so I suppose to the inertity of various governments that have managed other regulations that do not contribute to any form of function, to employ people and to increase the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. That's two, maybe not the biggest examples, but here's the thing. And our colleagues from local self-government are witnessing countless such cases in which, due to unresolved property-legal relations, slow reaction by competent state authorities, weaknesses in the functioning of various institutions, including their own, there is a departure of almost completed investment projects in the Republic of Croatia. So this is certainly one of the instruments, how it will be applied, of course, we will see and follow. But the fact that it's in our hands and we don't have a lot of instruments in our hands should definitely be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46474	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46475	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law because it begins to work on the realisation of an extremely important pre-election promise to the Kukuriku coalition, which is the introduction of order and transparency into public money management systems and state property is without a doubt an extremely important segment of this promise. I would just like to point out that today, during the debate on several occasions, it has been argued that the Parliament has been completely excluded from the decision-making process on state property management, that this is not true because, ultimately, it is the Parliament that adopts a strategy, i.e. a strategic document and laws that define and regulate this area. And, of course, it would be good if, ultimately, the report were brought by the Parliament, not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it is not true that the Parliament had no authority in this part. My objection is not to the text of the law itself, my objection is to the hodogram of activities related to the regulation of this extremely important issue, which is that, in my opinion, it was necessary to move a little differently, or take some other steps first, and then strategy and law. So, the basic preconditions for effective management of any property, and so on state property, is that, firstly, we know exactly what property we have, and at this point unfortunately, this is still not the case. The other thing is that we know what the real value of that property is and what the potential of that property is. Unfortunately, it is unnecessary to say at this point that we have neither that information nor that data. The third thing is that we know what we want to do with this property, what our goals are, and what concrete results we are pursuing in this whole thing. At this point, we have a State Property Management Strategy recently discussed and recently adopted in the Croatian Parliament but this strategy is quite principled, precisely because we still do not have this specific information, so the objectives and concrete measures for the implementation of the strategy are planned to be defined through the management plan. And finally, we need to know within what deadlines and what resources we are planning to achieve these objectives by implementing those measures that will be set out in the plan. In parallel with all this, we must also have a very specific and very high-quality communication strategy that must be targeted and in some way envisaged for segmented public or targeted public who vary from potential concessionaries, buyers of shares or assets to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because ultimately it is about managing the joint assets of all of us who live in Croatia. Given that I just showed or pointed out that the current situation is bad and that at this point we don't really know what we're having, that we don't know what the value of what we're having, that we don't know how to get to where we want to go in a very specific period of time with precisely defined measures and means, whether it's human, administrative or material means, the task won't be easy at all, but what's really important from somewhere is that we should go and start with something. In my opinion, it might be much wiser to first make a good and precise analysis of the existing situation with a concrete list of assets and its estimated values and potentials and only then create a strategy, law and implementation plan. I think that in this way we would optimise and rationalise the realisation of the objectives, but no matter what, we should welcome the government's efforts to start things from a dead spot, from the point of view of course dead capital because it is better to start to act on that path, and sometimes to make mistakes in walking, but to let things go, or not to run like the case so far, or to keep the situation going, or the status quo. This would eventually be the worst and most devastating for Croatia. There has been a lot of questions about the quality of this law and the question is, is the law good, ideal, perfect? No law is ideal, no law is perfect, but what's most important is that there is one positive intensity behind any legislative proposal, and behind this law is a positive intensity, and it comes down to being more quality, more transparent, more efficient, faster and rational in managing state property. And that is why I believe that this law should be supported because by its implementation we will allow not only some of Croatia's extremely important strategic projects to be launched but we will also make life easier for many ordinary people in the Republic of Croatia. I will refer to one specific example, or one specific case, and unfortunately, there is a lot in Croatia. In the previous assembly of the Parliament as then opposition MPs, I was approached by two people from the Polace Municipality who bought land from the municipality based on a public tender on which they planned to build some properties. And after buying the land with the best offer, it proved that the land was not owned by the municipality but owned by the state. And then comes hell for those people who unfortunately to this day have not been successfully resolved. I believe that by passing this law, such a case will, and such cases must be a larger number in the Republic of Croatia in a satisfactory way for these people to be solved. I believe that certain options for resolving this issue are also found in Article 56 of the Law. In the end, I want a lot of success in the realization of this very demanding task because it is in the interest of all of us citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46476	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46477	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Holly, you say that the Parliament is involved, the law has passed a strategy and after that there is nothing more, there is no report, there is no control whether those who have passed this law can virtually see more how this law is implemented, and the worst thing in all this is, and I agree with you that we do not know what we are giving to this law and there is a danger of possible manipulation. Too few people without proper control can cause the devil to exercise. There's a problem, there's danger. I think it's me, anyway, and I think that in that part of it, you've been thinking about something like that, you should have made lists of what we have. We say we have too many civil servants that the bureaucratic apparatus is large on the other side we haven't even made a list here. Not this year, all these years. What we didn't use for the extra people we didn't give them, reroute them to make these lists, and today we know what we're doing to manage a small number of people who probably won't be able to solve these problems because they're going to be choked by hundreds of other obstacles they're going to meet and who are going to be in front of them all the time and they're going to face problems. But here I repeat to you what I just told my colleague Radosh, support the amendment only one sentence in this law is enough for the Parliament to get the opportunity to receive a report once a year on state property management.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46478	The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46479	Comrade Hrg here I agree with you that it might be better for the Parliament to bring and discuss the report, every year and perhaps eventually the Government will intervene in these provisions of the law. However, I must admit that I am a little surprised with today's debate both by you and by your colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club because they have managed the state for 8 years. And what did they do about the list and the assessment of state property? A regulation has been adopted to form a register. As far as I'm concerned, nothing has been done on this matter. And that's why I don't think it's right to still run the process of solving this extremely important state problem in this way very uncritical criticism. Uncritical of themselves because for 8 years it's not a small period, to make dramatic steps in this part. And I think the governments led by HDZ in the past two mandates in which you have been participating as a party had no desire to sort things out in this part. And today we have the result of this very political decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46480	We are continuing the debate, colleague Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46481	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's kind of from law to law in the debate whenever we want to bring something better then we're doing an analysis of what was but unfortunately wrong analysis because if we want this law to be okay then we should first be bringing some kind of property analysis that we have to know which way to dispose of it. Who is to blame for doing nothing, and who is to blame for today’s adoption of such a law in this form? So we have so far had AUDIO for whom today the first Deputy Prime Minister when he represented the introduction of this bill said he had failed to perform his role, that he had not done what was to be done, among other things there was no register of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and that therefore it was necessary to move towards organisational changes related to self-government of state property. But what concerns me particularly is that Mr. Neven Mimica is sitting in the Management Council of AUDIO, that Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, Minister Sinisa Hajdaš-Doncic, Minister Tihomir Jakovina, Minister Darko Lorencin, Minister of State, or Mr. Dharko Majetic, and as representative of the union, Mr. Mladen Novosel, is sitting in the Management Council of AUDIO. So, those 7 people sitting in the board of directors, one of them the Deputy Prime Minister and four ministers, said Minister Grcic himself, had not done the job properly. If we've come to the conclusion that someone didn't do what they were supposed to do, then that man certainly shouldn't be in the commissions proposed by this new law, if the Proposer really claims that this law is so much better and will bring so many better things. Today we talk all the time about giving power to a single man. By now, DUDI had certain powers, had made certain decisions, among other things the State Office had given the Agency a preliminary opinion on the proposed restructuring plans for companies in difficulty owned by the Republic of Croatia and on acquisition of shares and business shares. The state office also twice a year considered the AUDI report on the state of unrated assets in the process of conversion and privatisation. The State Office also controlled the use and management of state assets. If we wanted to recapture all of this now, then we can freely say that it wasn't the AUDI's fault that he wasn't doing what he was supposed to do, but that for a large part of what wasn't done by the wrong administration, the state administration of state property management. But it seems that we haven't done all these analyses, that this is how we didn't set things up because we are now handing this law all the power that the greatest government in the Republic can actually have. That is, it manages something that we ourselves don't know what it's dealing with, what value it's worth, what material goods are and what's worst for no one is responsible for anything because there are no provisions in this bill. That's what we need to worry about, and that's what we need to take care of. This is how it turns out that we're always starting from the beginning, every time we talk about who's guilty or trying to find the guilty one. We're not sanctioning this culprit, that guilty man is not responsible for anything. And what is now is that here in the Parliament, especially for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, gives us faith and hope that this law will make anything about state property management different from what has been so far. When we say that nothing was done, however, competitions were being opened for consultants regarding the privatisation of the Croatian Bank, the Croatian Post Bank. We've been doing an analysis of how much credit we're on next year and how much we could monetize our roads. And there's a problem right now. No one is against state property management in a good master's way, but it's obvious that we simply don't know or want to do it. We now have the highway situation in the Zagreb-Macelj concession as we have heard if the concessionaire is operating with a loss, the state must refund the price it needs. We have a situation with Bina Istria where neither concessionary nor other concessionary is paying VAT. We have so many cases of bad contracts that we have been warned by state auditors for years and we simply do nothing to change such bad contracts to the harm of the Republic of Croatia. And now by not doing anything and accusing someone before us, we're doing a scheme the way we do it. If it is, I'm just asking if this state administration of state property management has had any responsibilities so far and according to all of this, was that state administration supposed to in any way control and influence the work of AUDI? Yeah, she should have. Why is AUDI so bad that now under the exception of its poor management of state property we raise this law and pedestal as something good, so good that we haven't had in Croatia yet. And at the same time, we give authority to that same man who managed, or still manages the state administration for the management of state property. So these are things that we should detect where we should all be honest and say something is definitely not good, something's wrong. Because if we're bickering about what happened, then I don't think we're going to get far, unfortunately here all these years behind us are showing that that's the way it is. But if we analyze things and we find whoever's responsible and the one who gets paid every month is responsible for what he's doing, because as we've already heard the powers carry some responsibility, then I suppose and believe that even if the government of state property from now on would be in good master's manner. This way, I'm afraid we're going to have a few more years, and then in some next session of the Parliament, we're going to be passing another bill again, changing the directors of agencies, managers, and everything else, and there's not going to be any results again. And that's what's going on right now, and it's personally embarrassing to me because these ministers sitting in the board of directors of AUDIO continue to say to the real estate commission owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Deputy Prime Minister of Justice, Finance, Construction, Agriculture, Tourism, Defence. In the government's board of management of strategic companies, again the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of the economy, Finance Minister, Economy Minister, Transport Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Entrepreneurship, Labour and Pension System. So the same people that we have today when you represented this law said AUDIO didn't do its job and that this is why a new Law on State Property Management should be passed. And the same people who didn't do the job, the same people who sat in the board of directors, now let's put them in two commissions and one man who's the head of the state's office we're putting as the most powerful man almost in the state, and we're giving him all the power we can in his hands, and that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46482	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46483	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Paynovic, colleagues and colleagues. I think this law is good, it's good, and it's on the trail of an election promise that the state must finally act not only as a owner but as a good host, to record its property and put it into office. Otherwise, to record property, to spend a lot of money, because the records of property and the reform of landowners and catastra started long ago in 2001, it's not over yet. But by then, the state had a plan for a book so it could write down its property. But what do I want to say at the beginning? Why and what my colleague Mirela Holly said, why many cause great fear, mistrust under this law, and if he wasn't able to do everything the way he did, no one would even argue about the property, no one would argue that the inn of state property was being held, and if the evil were worse, the greatest innion was in the '90s. I've already said that, and I'm going to repeat, while others were dying, liberating the country, many were liberating state property and its squares. And not a word about it. Furthermore, the Penal Code has changed to steal, so it was a systematic robbery and now you are surprised, and many are not the epigons of those persons but were the culprits of these events. If nothing else observers, and as observers in any case accomplices. So when all this happened and happened then it was supposed to get both the legal framework and the protection, above all criminal justice, and it was '97. years of so-called mini criminal reform abolished the crime of stealing mines, state property, because they were like relics of the past. It was socialism that protected social property, and now there's no social property, and we made fun of it. So first, the language was introduced so that something should be blackened and then robbed. So it was systematically done for 10 years, since the '90s. until 2000, and then the paints continued. But he's not the man who sits in prison for the ransom of all your sins, and you're saying that, why do you object? So you're not in..., many are not..., I won't tell everyone, it would be ugly to generalize, but many don't care to settle things because they need to. As much as it was in the state property book, how hard it was to get it back, and yet it isn't, there's still a lot of litigation. In the '90s, how many convictions were there because of deafness at and local level? The state gave, gave the municipality, gave the city to build a kindergarten, to build a school, and they sold nicely. Or sue some private that it's municipal or cityal and then the protectors don't show up in court and because of the deaf tens and tens of thousands, I know it that way. And that's being told in front of our courts. And then you wonder that we don't have a list, that it hasn't been solved yet, that we don't have a register. Well, it wasn't meant to, and it wasn't easy to write down that it wasn't dark. Of course, these are many machinations, and in the meantime they are different, this form has been accepted by different owners, some have won later and in good faith. Of course it's very difficult now and that the state's attorney's office, so it seems to me that in light of not only the debate on this law but later and in the application of the inseparable task is you, your task with co-operation with the state's attorney's office in the civil justice department, and, of course, as necessary and in the criminal context. That's why Mr. Minister with his associates and with the gentlemen I've appointed before, all the support. They say you'll sell... because it bothers them, that there's something transparent written in the law, and while it was given under the table, until the concessions couldn't know who had the concession, how it was charged, so we holes, we can see from the moon which holes and craters came from stealing state property. And nothing to anyone. Big worry about the freeway. When they were in power how many kilometers it cost them, four times more than when we built it in 2000 and 2003. Whose money is in a black bag, is that Austrian, German? Is that state property? Part of the state property is in a black bag. Some haven't been found yet. And that's why your resistance is. Well, we shouldn't be surprised. So you don't have to expect Mr. Minister to support you in that? Well, there's a lot of ignorance, so it's said that the state can sell one part of its assets and cross the Constitution. Well, of course you cross the Constitution. What serves the public good forest, all that was mentioned here, of course, is that it remains under protection because this law, we can't, this is one segment that we have to look at starting with the Constitution that was properly quoted but above all with the Law of Property, other real rights, and a whole series of laws that regulate governance and availability of state property. The Republic of Croatia owns a large number of properties, so it has the right to have large forest areas, forest land, building land, public goods, railway infrastructure, a large number of various buildings. Here's an example when we talk about buildings. I was sitting as a minister at the Ministry of the Republic of Austria who paid 30000 kuna annually for the city of Zagreb. But in 2004, these were for power unconditional spaces and were then rented from Croatian broadcasters for an incredible 4 million kuna per year. So whose money is that? Whose squares are these? Or you're the only one left with madness squared. And leave this country alone and this government. Citizens have the right to be impatient, have the right to be dissatisfied. They're all right. But where did you get the right to criticize something you did yourself? Or maybe part of it and you're right to sit there. You may be right about that. But that's not your fault. So what I'm trying to say is that a large number of laws are not only prescribed for this, therefore, different treatment, i.e. how certain segments of state ownership are handled depending on what things, or what properties are concerned. Mr. Peinovic recently said we gave 40m squares of the country for business zones, rather than using them. And now it's big, you see the great concern that it's an attack on the independence of local self-government units. It's just like calling a judge to solve the law knowingly, contrary to the law, that he knowingly damaged it. You're against justice when you talk, when a journalist consciously writes slanders and lies, so when it comes to it publicly, you're against independent media. Pointing out non-subsidities in any segment or in any profession is not a desecration of that profession nor of that segment, nor of that institution, but of its affirmation. And every man who sees that it hunts her like that in a blur and has no clear fingers. And that's clear to us. How the agricultural land was divided. This is one part of what fellow Holly was talking about is the continuation of what was divided into state, community or city in many areas, then reached out for state property. Well, then people get into a hundred problems. It was a state property sale. He says it's ours. And that's the situation in Polaca, that's the situation in many environments. But no one's talking, there's a right no matter who's a vindictee of certain events or quite well-intentioned when he's talking. So why should we trust that person who will be in charge? That's right. It's just like when we pass the law, because judges are given the power to judge the most important of our good, our life, our body. It's a matter of responsibility. [[/Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much. It's a little time.]] Let me just finish this sentence. It's a matter of responsibility. And when this body is founded, the state will not wash its hands like you did. I started the agency, my duty was to set people up, but I'm not responsible for it. It's the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46484	Okay, I'm asking you now we're a minute and 24. I'd like to ask you to finish. Thank you very much. We have one replica, and it's the esteemed representative of Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46485	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, no one here is against putting state property into office. It's against sale, alienation, etc. However, there are a number of things why this law should not be adopted in this form, especially in an emergency procedure. You're a lawyer, you've been a minister, and you can't be a law, one law is above what's called local self-government. So, the decision on the municipal administration makes on the Mayor's proposal to the City Municipal Council not law, and then you will release state property in the area of the local self-government unit by law from paying the municipal fee. And is it done not to put these properties into function because they are freed from everything, so we give DUUDI time to make as many years as possible of these properties, not putting them into function simultaneously by povertying local self-government. And who's smart enough to accept it or write it like that? On the other hand, this office has all state property. So you have the Agricultural Land Act, which states that the Minister of Agriculture can sell or lease agricultural land under the same two laws. Not to mention a series of other laws. And you don't have to defend this law immediately under any force. The fact is, we don't have a central register. Who's to blame? We're all obviously guilty because from '90 to '2013, a series of governments changed. We don't even have measured geodetic land not only owned by the Republic of Croatia but also privately, we don't have an estimate of that land. We have the Tax Administration but we have no assessment of no land but ownership of the Republic of Croatia. And how are we going to put it into operation immediately after an emergency procedure? Well, we won't. It'll take us another year to make all these shops. Then why are we in such a hurry to pass this law? For one steak, we kill the ox.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46486	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46487	So you say a colleague with a good part can agree on a lot of things, but there's no way you're saying this law allows for sale. Well, in the Law of Property, you're allowed to do so. Management, the owner can sell when necessary. And that's not the point. What's the fear of all of a sudden? It wasn't a fear of robbery, but that some might get there, and when citizens ask to round up their property, so that's normal, that's what local self-government units do. Or to put something into operation. Why the fear of it? It's out of transparency. But I even understand that because it's boring, but we're going to have to learn to talk openly about problems so we have to sacrifice something to get it. Because it's been done all the time under the table. And control, self-government yes, freedom yes, but that doesn't mean irresponsibility. Because many units of local self-government I do not know exactly what you refer to, but I will tell you and what is certainly this provision in the law here in Article 78 that speaks of the acquisition of ownership rights precisely in cases where the state assigns units to local self-government and they sell out for strictly defined purposes. Therefore, responsibility does not mean self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46488	Thank you very much. We'll have an individual debate now, and it'll be the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46489	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues on this whole project that we've been doing for the last two months, so I'm going to start by adopting a strategy on the availability of state property, and I'm going to say a few things with these operational laws. First, through the discussion of the strategy, we said some sort of three basic thoughts. It's not the first sale of state wealth at all costs. The second thing is the concession that is most optimistic for us at this point offered the form of governance of this state property and the third thing that is very important to us is the conclusion that the state does not have to be at all costs and a bad master. That's some of the things we said through the strategy debate. The second thing I point out here is an emergency procedure to pass this law. I join my colleagues in claiming that this thing should go in at least two readings, to seek out a more extensive public debate. A team before you said a few things here in an explanation that I would not agree with and in order to back up the arguments for an emergency procedure. You said the strategy was from 2013 to 2014, so it wasn't until 2014. The strategy was a document for the longer period we discussed. The reasons for being adopted as soon as possible and subsequently that this is a framework for effective and long-term transparent asset management and ultimately that this emergency procedure will affect better protection of national interests. It can be accepted but there are no key arguments to bring this up in one reading. So we join all those who say this should go in two readings. I'll say a few things about the very text of the law. So, we respect the proposal's efforts to adopt a legal text that will best regulate the availability of huge assets that have been assessed in the media aproximably on some 30 billion euros. So, not an easy task at all, and you have our support in that. However, this text that is offered here requires certain corrections and I will try to analyze several articles to say where we think we should make corrections. For us is the key article 16 that says what the State Office is doing. Therefore, the State Office shall carry out coordination, harmonisation of criteria, etc., draft a proposal for a management and availability strategy for state assets and a proposal for a management plan for state assets. This appropriation is intended to cover The State Office is required until 31 March of the current year to submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the management plan for the previous year. It's in the name of the club. The bud said here there's a key thing missing the government behind that report should be delivered to the Parliament for discussion. And then that job for us is complete. In that sense, we have also made an amendment that you will get not to convince him now, so that is the essence of this amendment in the entire debate in the final session must be included in the plenary session of the Parliament. In Article 17, we therefore listed various powers of the State Office, proposed to the Government to decide on the establishment of a list of companies, the State Office proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the appointment of representatives of owners in the congregations of companies, the State Office shall give an opinion on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards, the chairman of the Supervisory Boards. In paragraph 5, an odd item that says this is the choice of members for members, the selection of candidates for members and presidents of company management shall be carried out on a proposal from the Registrar, with the consent of the State Office through a public tender or through a specialised agency. Pretty unspeakable. The order of action of the order of jurisdiction and a specialised agency has been inserted as a new one in the candidate selection system through public tenders or as an alternative to a public competition, I do not know what the legislator was going to say with this. Furthermore, the state office continues to have an apartment fund, residential facilities, facilities no longer available to the Ministry of Defence, assets seized due to convictions. The state office has and manages even the succession that I was talking about last time, a process that is nominally difficult almost $2 billion both times, so DUDI will also deal with it. Article 19 on which there were words of the Republic of Croatia and the state office were exempt from paying taxes on real estate, profit tax, municipal fees. Does this degrade the decision of the units of local self-government that has passed a law based on a regulation of the level of municipal compensation as its original income? Do we here degrade such a single decision of the local self-government unit? This Regulation shall enter into The State Office is authorised, with the consent of the Government, to set up special purpose companies. Isn't the order rather the other way around? Isn't the founder of the government, with some recommendation from the state office? Didn't we turn some kind of shop around? In Article 22, the Office of State shall also carry out other tasks. What are the other jobs here? Chief provision, any other business may be. Article 23(2) shall be empowered by the Head of State to determine the remuneration and the Secretaries for work. So of course they should have a fee but there's no limit to that amount of compensation here. We're afraid it's gonna be something that used to be called some kind of managerial contract. So these things should be defined here in some way. From this definition of the work of the state office, the conclusion is that he has terrible affairs ahead of him, so he plans to manage state property, performs all ownership relations, determines a list of companies of interest for the Republic of Croatia, proposes the appointment of members of the congregations of these companies, has a housing fund, manages a succession, establishes companies, so isn't that a little too ambitious and too abundant for such an institution? And isn't that when a certain amount of critical power is created in this institution? Of course not speaking at some level of personal illusions, we speak for some practical reasons. As far as the center's position is concerned, you could say the same thing. In Article 31, the President and the members of the Governing Council shall be appointed for a period of 4 years. They may be re-elected after the term of office. So how many times do you think? It is logical to limit the number of mandates, which is of course a practice. The statutes again regulate the adoption of the centre of statutes with the consent of the Government. So isn't it logical that the way the government works regulates by adopting statutes, that the government adopts statutes on how it will be organised and how the centre itself will act. And in Article 48, we have adopted all forms of ownership, how to manage. There's no concession. We previously said in the strategy, and we have all defined that the concession is the most optimal form of government property management. Concessions are the only thing that isn't planned here. Of course it would be good to see if we have some sort of concession register, the flows of these concessions, benefit from concessions, but of course since we don't even have the basic element planned, we can't expect to get these other elements. In Article 49, we have submitted an amendment in the sense that it is exempt from the availability of the property subject to the Property Compensation Act taken away during the South-Communist Government until all proceedings under this law are legally terminated. So we want those assets which are subject to the dispute to be exempted from further action to a final end in order to protect potential users of that kind of property that is in return. We think it's something that life is very real. In Article 54 of the Decision on the availability of real estate or the set of real estate, the market value of which up to and including one million kuna shall be made by the Head of State’s Office independently. I think that today is a very ambitious provision to give someone the right to own up to a million kuna, and I don't think it's a service to the president in that way. All of this could be analysed here and the way you donate and the way you give without compensation which are the reasons for giving real estate without compensation, which are criteria etc. So this is all about how this text should be improved better and that it could then be something that they would say is a real basis for implementing the State Property Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46490	Thank you very much. It is the first to be respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46491	Verba volunteer script manent. Words pass written down remains. Now, what the poet is trying to say here may be the best example of this article 78th but it should be determined that here is from a series of these examples and a good analysis of all the articles of this law that it really cannot be passed by emergency procedure. Since we don't even have a register of state property, we don't have a basic list of what's going to be under this Act. I think we have enough time to analyze this in two readings. The intention is good, but the text of the law is extremely bad. And it leaves the possibility of everything and everything. Here's an article in 78. It's not the units of local self-government that have sold out I don't know what it is, but it's through a public tender, it's a third party, and I'm explaining it to my colleague, Ingrid, who acquired the right to property. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer for engineering, but I can read articles like this. So it was a farm land tender. So what does it mean, then, that the Republic of Croatia is authorized to exercise its rights necessarily by legal request against units of local self-government? What are we, spacers in Croatia? Cities and municipalities, counties are obviously foreign bodies for this country. Which means that the Republic of Croatia will apply for the 50% that local self-government has achieved through the Agricultural Land Act, through the strategy... No, that's not what it says here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know,... Read it well in article 78. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for these business zones, the fact was that those who were close to the government, politically similar, were getting land, getting money from the state budget, that infrastructure was made, that this land was empty. Those who tortured themselves filled those zones. But we can't work that way again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46492	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of prominent MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46493	You're telling your colleague that you're afraid of the power of this body. But it is not power that needs to be feared. It is powerlessness. In Croatia, however, we learned at two or two, either someone is powerless or someone is capable of stealing. If someone is powerful and responsible, it's already a problem, because we think it's too much for one authority or one body or one person. That's how we need to learn to behave. There is, on the other hand, responsibility. We often said, "This property is not listed, so let's concentrate." And so. So now that one center wants to have what's normal because it's state property, then maybe this kind of fear where I believe if it's responsibility and, of course, that every right is given and played but then we're already at the level of quality and responsibility of the government. I'll just point out that this body can never work alone, that it's inseparable from the work of the state's attorney's office, which is legally represented by the state. Who takes care of her property, who books that property. Here's an example of how long it's been recorded in this last year and a half and before, that book has long begun agricultural land, marine goods, forest books and forest land, over apartments. Well, when we are, when that's all... I think it's at the end, given the number of particles that are recorded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the second object is the special and special weight that we have faced, and I think everyone who has worked on it is that Croatia has the size of Austria several times, several times more although the surface is similar, there are several times more cadastrian particles than the Republic of Austria. But that's the question now and the succession where you and your colleague Vinkovic can talk about private property, and so is the problem, despite the accelerated resolution that has been going on for more than 10 years but which business is not, is not finished, I believe that the end is being monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46494	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46495	Thank you. Well, colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic, so it wasn't me when I was talking about power at the center of power, or I was pointing out that God forbid that someone would abuse it. Regularly reading the provisions of this Act and the provisions that speak precisely what are the responsibilities of the Office and which are the Centre, so the people who will manage it, then you can see how real the concentration of governance is, therefore, power in their hands. That's what I was talking about. I didn't say someone was gonna abuse it. But this concentration of jobs and responsibilities has never been good. In addition, it is a very large, very high value, I said in the beginning that it is some approximation that it is about 30 billion euros in value. It's one job that needs to be done by a very broad group of people. I have no doubt that's not how it's gonna work out. However, reading this legal text again, it is evident that a person practically who will be at the head of the Office also decides on the staff, decides on the appointments of people who will also be in the congregations and supervisory boards of 500 some companies to decide on the succession, to decide on buildings, to decide on apartments and everything that is listed here. In that sense, I think that concentration in a person, one person is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46496	Thank you very much. The next debate will be delivered by distinguished MP Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46497	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in one of the replicas I touched the reports of the Constitutional Court but also here we heard today during a series of discussions the need not to adopt this Law by emergency procedure. Because the passing of a law like this that speaks of the prosperity of our homeland, in this way, that during just one day we are practically discussing this subject. Many of those who will raise their hands on Friday may be invited by phone to come here in the assembly quorum, should know what it says in this report and the recommendation of the Constitutional Court and all that my predecessors have said about the urgency of the procedure of passing this law. I personally believe that there is absolutely no need for him to be brought at this time by emergency procedure since we already have established in the Republic of Croatia 28 development agencies, 47 entrepreneurship centres, 241 employees in development agencies, 212 in entrepreneurship centres, 80 in technology parks, 149 in entrepreneurship centres, 250 in AUDIO, 932 people and established one such office that can work until such a law is passed more quality and much more responsible than it is now here. I was personally disturbed by all those speakers who treated and mentioned local self-government units as irresponsible, like those who sell out land, who don't care about that land because the truth is completely different. If someone in this country takes care of it both in a legitimate and fair way, and is controlled by all possible institutions, by state audits, financial inspections, all above them, they are units of local self-government. No local self-government can dispose of its assets without decisions by city councils, without conducting a public tender and without spatial and urban plans. In this law we see something quite different, and when a law like this is passed by emergency procedure, the question arises why an emergency procedure if we know that there is no real reason at this time. We can suspect that the real reason is actually humane, not economic. In this law, what's in Plan 21, as far as I had an opportunity to hear it in the election, is quite the opposite of that plan where big speeches were mentioned decentralisation. In this law all the articles and articles go through exactly centralization, giving enormous power to a small circle of people and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I support all those and I personally thought I'd given the amendment to discuss the report of the State Office here at the Parliament. Speaking of local self-government units, 568 of them are currently the only local self-government units that have some kind of, or huge investments each in their own area. They have open construction sites and they realize their projects. The state has given up a whole series of investments, not to mention Žuta Lokva-Krisic, not to mention a flat track that is changing even the track at the moment, regardless of the integral studies and everything else. When mentioning units of local self-government and the availability of property units of local self-government, self-government and a register that does not exist and will not exist so soon for a simple reason because no one living in this country knows what all states have. You know that according to government regulations, all the land owned by units of local self-government has been registered in the Republic of Croatia over the past 7-8 years, and there have been huge problems with local self-government. In this law, further discussion is needed, for a simple reason, because the simplest things in it are not built in accordance with other regulations. So it is mentioned here that the state office is exempt from paying the municipal fee, and then mentions in the second article that for the new buildings it builds it will pay the utility fee. No municipal compensation is paid for building buildings. According to the Law on the municipal economy, it is known what the municipal compensation is for and why it is charged, and it is likely that a municipal contribution should be placed there. The maker didn't think about it when he was putting together a law like this. He's still saying that the center is responsible for all its assets. What is the property of the center and whose property is it? We have a whole series of shortcomings in this law that should definitely be discussed, definitely to be discussed. Even in that section relating to the public tender, yes or no for the principal. I'm convinced when the law was passed by such an urgent procedure, when something like that is prescribed that probably one who will be the director and the DUDI and the state office already and now know that at this point they will become directors, the vice president will smile, it seems that's the case. To talk about this law, not to mention companies that will be established, not to mention that, so I support the amendments of both the HDZB and the HSS that they gave in the part where the Parliament really has to discuss this and where a report on work must be submitted to the Assembly both of them. Speaking of state property at this time when we don't even know what all state property is when we have cultural homes that the State's Attorney's Office and today book in the Republic of Croatia for what places, villages, only for one reason, that 30 years ago those who ran the then local communities loved the socialist union of the working people of the Republic of Croatia so they signed a socialist alliance in land books, so Croatia is the legal successor and Croatia is registered to the home of culture, and those who were smarter wrote that local communities are now owned by local self-government units. The mass of things is there to discuss, the mass of experience in the field to be picked up, the people who operate and carry it out, not to say the obligation to make spatial plans. So doesn't the Government of the Republic of Croatia trust its Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction which gives consent to the spatial plans of units of local self-government and opinion, so now the new State Office for the Management of State Property will have to be involved in the development of spatial plans and units of local self-government, and according to this law it turns out to be so. I'm telling you that this is a dangerous law because it opens up opportunities with these previous laws passed by an urgent procedure of availability of property without too much public control. It is even deleted from the old law although it has a lot of articles that are practically copy traps to publish data on websites. There's only the People's Newspaper. Brisan was also the part of the adoption report to the Croatian Parliament, a whole series of new things was brought in, and even of those things that I fear for the company located in my area of Koksar – Bakar, which was appointed by the Government and was appointed by the Board of Supervisors, probably by some party rather than professional key, so it pays now because the company does not make any revenue of 500, 600, 800000 kuna as long as it takes for a cold drive. The land stands empty, the unit of local self-government has no influence other than the creation of an urban plan, the defined purpose of that space, and in this law and that of the Strategic Investments Act, the unit of local self-government is taken away that possibility. Because according to that law, even the adoption of a spatial plan, or urban plan, will not be necessary in order to obtain a building and usable permit. When we add it all together, we return to what the colleague said, to some 90 years of war, so I guess privatisation will be necessary, since it won't be necessary to call a public tender for some strategic investment, but according to the estimated value of the court's sales of land and where we came from. We have come to question in a few years what we have brought today and what it is that those who pass this law on Friday and vote. It's been a while, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46498	Thank you very much. But you'll have a chance to respond to the replicas. We have two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46499	Dear colleague, I have generally spoken of this law on behalf of the club, and now I will rely more on the influence of this law on local self-government. Just one sentence. This is a hundred times worse than that golf course law. I wish there were 100 golf courses in Croatia, so we might have more tourists, etc. But when you move from one side to the other of political decision-making from opposition to position, then such laws are very beautiful to you, they don't look so bad. So then we come to this law that obviously has to go to another reading, because we have nothing solved except the text of this law, except Friday when it will be voted, Monday or Tuesday when it will be published in the People's Newspaper and nothing will happen two years later because we have nothing systematiced. I'll only mention it as mayor, and I've been in politics since the 1990s, and I've been mayor since 2001. For you I was red, now I may be for these blues, and I remain the same Vinkovic, the same mayor. But that mimosa, the former PIC administrative building Djakovo, which probably the state needs legalized because it was built under the law. That's why it's called mimosis. It's state property. It's still standing still, it's falling apart, and it's past APN, APPN, AUDIO, DUDI, and I don't know what else is going to happen. But she's still standing as an unsolved case. It's a small building in one village, one neighborhood of the city of Djakova. It's called the Draco Varoshina social home. It's a four-by-four building. The former minister of the Church thought that mimosa was the four-by-four building. However, it is an administrative building that Mandic knows how many squares and rooms there are. That's where 330 people worked. It also has a congress hall and a kitchen, etc. etc. It's been empty for 10 years, and it's been going on forever. The only income and benefit the city has from it is a communal fee because we have just called to make the state take care of its property. And don't worry. The state doesn't care about its property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46500	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46501	Well, here I really don't care what they called you red, blue, green or not, but I know exactly what you're talking about because ten years in position in a local self-government unit and ten years in power in a local unit like that. I know exactly what I'm talking about when I'm talking about the work of local self-government units and the property he has and the projects he's doing. As far as I'm concerned, I think we're on the same track as you and I for passing this law by an emergency procedure. I can only say that by passing one of these laws by emergency procedure, the government has somehow recognised the inability to manage state property until now, since all these years and a half, practically two years, all of the instruments were in their hands from the assets, of those 200 and how many 50 employees said in that and from making all decisions that were related to both this and that state property, and even in these two years, they were able to do the register that would be difficult to do primarily because of the unsettled cataster in the Republic of Croatia. We have a situation to say that our economic zone has two tank trenches of 300 m2 of land owned by the Republic of Croatia. I guess now I'll have a business plan for that kind of business, a state office, and then they'll have it for those two tank trenches with that property, and I hope that at least then they'll build my infrastructure, since it's very little to invest in such a single zone. Therefore, the government is clearly giving up its pre-election promise of decentralisation, even stronger centralisation is being introduced and the powers of local self-government units are being reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46502	Thank you very much. And the next replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klaric, this article 19th, is very interesting and very strange and I am truly surprised that the government's office for legislation has passed, especially the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, in paragraph 1, the Republic of Croatia and the State Office were exempt from paying taxes on real estate, profit taxes and other taxes and public fees. First, the Real Estate Tax Act is clearly defined even if the State acquires real estate that it does not pay real estate tax. However, if the state sells real estate, then the real estate tax pays the real estate person, and that's the Real estate tax law, and you can't change that. Obligator of the Tax on Profit... The profit tax law defines who is a taxpayer, this is an article by your 19th colleague, Pejnović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, who's bound by the profit tax law and I don't know what's meant by these other taxes. Because there are no other taxes they can pay. If they have income tax employees, no one can free them. And then we come on, the sugar comes at the end, and that's the release of the communal fee. The Law on the municipal economy stipulates who, as well as under what conditions, pays the municipal fee, the level of the municipal fee is passed by the representative body, but also says who under what conditions can be exempt from paying the municipal fee. Therefore, exceptionally under the conditions that the property is not in function can be released from any payment of the municipal fee. However, if the property is in operation, then you can't release them from municipal charges. The communal fee is paid by whoever's doing the job inside. It's not the obligation to pay the utility fee to the owner of the property, it's the one who's doing the work inside. He can agree that as part of the rent he pays and communal compensation, but this article 19 is a total failure and you cannot implement it. Because you with this law cannot put off the force of a particular regulation that lex specialis regulates this area. Finally, the Republic of Croatia and the State Office are bonds of payment of municipal compensation in the event a new facility is built on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And we should know at least in the government that when a municipal facility is working, there is no municipal compensation, but then a municipal contribution is paid. Therefore, Article 19(3) does not drink water, it is contrary to the Law on the municipal economy, and you must change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46504	Thank you very much. The respected representative Tomislav Klaric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46505	Well, here's Mr. Schucker. I pulled this article on the 19th because he's the most obvious example that those who wrote this law don't even know what they're writing in this section, and that as an argument that this law definitely has to go to a wider public debate, there's no need to bring it into an emergency procedure at all. All that you've mentioned here is that it's not the only article that has some kind of interpretation that you and I have said at the moment, there's a whole series of illogicalities here in the law itself or it's not written studioically or it's written fast. There are a number of things that are literally copied from the existing Law on AUDI where certain items are either expelled or other added or otherwise reformed. And I return and read again, I can also read to you, what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia said about the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act. This is not about 2000, 3000 meters of square land, this is about the entire state property, so not the property of some director, president, prime minister or minister, but the property of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we all need to take care of it together. Otherwise, it is a voting machine that will appear here on Friday that will vote something that can be taken into account by all of us and our citizens and should be taken into consideration literally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46506	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the distinguished representative Marijan Skvaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46507	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, fortunately, I can get involved in this debate, just the experience of local community leadership, or self-government and regional self-government, which we have been in the leading positions, that part for more than 10 years, that we know that real acquisition of property and property is very much the most important thing in all of this. Why? It's all about ownership, about the stake, how much you're capable of, worth creating one new investment, opening a new investment, and also increasing the value of the land or other property itself. In order to achieve and define this, it is always necessary to evaluate and analyse the existing situation first and then define optimal solutions with a view to achieving the strategic goals that we have defined ourselves. When we talk about the assessment of the situation and when we talk about privatisation, surely none of us can think of anything good or anything positive. So when we talk about the acquisition, management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia is prescribed primarily by a number of legal and sublegal acts only here in this part of the bill, 35 starts from the Constitution itself, and which is the law, regulations or decisions. Of course, Article 8 The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the body governed by it shall have, and shall benefit from, the assets of the Republic of Croatia unless the specific laws are specified otherwise. Given the complexity of the governance and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, there is an intensity of course both the goal and the desire to regulate all these parts by one regulation or as little regulation as possible and, of course, the urgency is to regulate and manage all these parts from one centre. It is always known that if you want to make something impossible or if you want to rule better then divide it into as few particles as possible and then you know that it will not work. Property management primarily involves finding optimal solutions to preserve property in the long term and generate economic growth. And these solutions are primarily to ensure control of natural resources and above all on cultural and state heritage, then important companies and other resources owned by the Republic of Croatia. In particular, revenue that must be used for the general benefit should also be defined. It is also an important instrument to achieve strategic development objectives related to transport, cultural and other policies as well as to any other development policy of the Republic of Croatia, and of course this should be defined as effective governance and economic promotion and is important for its stability, while contributing to the better quality of life of all citizens, which, of course, should be our primary goal. Of course, the strategic goals in that part can be summed up to really encourage economic development. In this law I would point out two things that we have to take care of that is that we really need to have a list of assets. When we have a list of assets, we have to define its value, and then we know what the potential is. Now that we're talking about some estimated value of 30 billion kuna, when we're talking about 500 companies that need to be defined around its assets, it's a really large amount and it's not for underestimation, and we need to make a very serious, professional and discreet contribution to that solution. When we talk about the list of assets, what's said state-level so to the local level, it's not done. It is mentioned here that some cities and municipalities have some, but when we do a little analysis then we see that the largest number of municipalities and the good part of the cities is below five thousand people who have less than 10 employees have an average of 5 to 8 employees and the question is whether these people are above all and have time and opportunity to deal with such a complex and comprehensive job. It's been going on for many years, but we need to find solutions there that part of the list of assets as soon as possible because I said we can see what that value is and use that potential for social and economic development. What is also important is what part of the problem is, which is the decision-making procedure, to decide something with previous procedures that we have defined exactly the example of AUDIO and previous agencies. They've always done a lot of work, and we can't say that these people haven't done anything there, but the question is how much has been solved in the first place. And what was said at the outset to really see that the decision-making processes were stopped. Why? Whether it's fear, whether it's ignorance or not, we should really think about it. But the decision-making processes are quite halted in that part. And... that many of the kinds of decision-making and resolutions that we could have spent still stand in drawers. I would now mention in this section more about the very functioning of the property and the relationship between state property and municipalities and cities because there is nevertheless the most concentrated property, and above all when we talk about property at local level anything is always about some city in some community, it is always about where people are defined where they are employed and where some kind of municipal infrastructure is related to that property. First of all, what we would like to suggest is that real estate in relation to state and local self-government can only be defined by the availability of real estate through donation. It would be kind of strange if the state had to sell some kind of real estate or any object or anything between the municipality, cities and the state. And I think the emphasis should be that part of the relationship should also be the acquisition of real estate and the availability of real estate only by giving. What I would like to say and highlight with a particular example of the list of assets itself, then the decision-making process and, first of all, when you only take one year to make one decision about moving a stream in one entrepreneurial zone. Then you see how much in that section you've stopped defining and putting into function such land. Your procedure is that you have to ask for four to five opinions as to how the resolution ministries, and then finally the request and decision of the State's Attorney's office. Someone will always have their own additional request and when it comes back to... procedure and decision making and, of course, in this part when we mention that these decision-making processes are quite stopped then a year for one such decision is too much. And there should also be this commission and new agencies looking at what a priority it is that such things happen especially in this time period of a year would not happen. And another example, you buy the land you bought after the bankruptcy procedure was completed by a bankruptcy council and a bankruptcy judge, and when you want to sign into the garter, you see that what you bought 1/1 has several particles on which one of these particles cannot be entered because it does not have defined property status. For more than one year, any economic investment in that area has been stopped and should be entered normally because the economic operator paid that particle 1/1 and the state institution or agency to solve, interveningly, the collapse that took place in that part. And what I would like to stress further is that we need to take care of Croatia in the EU and what we want again through the acquisition of assets we want... EU funds. So I propose that we make sure that those properties that would be allocated to local self-government units to municipalities or cities or would be an interest or procedure between the state or regional and local self-government that, in the event that this property is necessary for the implementation of EU projects and for obtaining funds to be a priority, because we know that getting funds from the EU fund is the first thing to do is to resolve property relations, you must be the owners of this property, then the construction of documentation projects and the remaining procedures will then go ahead, because the basis is the property, so that in any case, I propose that it takes due account of the decision on the availability of real estate if it is in the function of obtaining funds from the EU that it has the same great priority. Here is, after all, really what we said that if there is a possibility of any law, this Law allows us to further invest in the development of our economy, the development of our Croatia that this should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46508	Thank you very much. Now the word will be given to the esteemed representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46509	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. I would say at first immediately that we are returning things back to this Law, i.e. we are establishing a model of state property management that has been in force for many years, and certainly since 2004, when the Central Office for Property Management was established on the one hand and on the other hand, it has existed for a clearly long time by the Privatisation Fund and before it, the Agency for Conversion, etc., etc. So this system of state property management was known, it had its advantages, it had its shortcomings. But mostly during the time SDP was in opposition such a model was systematically attacked for reasons because from one place... manages state assets, which is clear because of the depravity of state-owned property management cannot obtain the quality of the results expected by the Government, the Parliament and the Republic of Croatia from their assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that when the Government entered and proposed a State Property Management Strategy to the Croatian Parliament and then clearly and out of it, at least that's what it says in the opening section, and it was the Law on State Property Management that, in my opinion, it was more opportununistic that the Government had referred to the State Property Management Plan to the Parliament. And that, otherwise, in this Act where documents are listed, strategic property management documents where the strategy is discussed, where the State Property Management Plan and the State Property Management Report are discussed. That the government has established by this law that the plan also adopts the Croatian Parliament's annual property management plan. And I see a link here, for example, to the state budget. If during the state budget we bring plans and they are financial, financial plans of the Croatian Roads, Croatian Waters. So if we bring plans outside of the budget funds, I don't see why a document as important as the property management plan would not also be referred to the Parliament and then a clear report on the implementation of that plan. This is how, based on this Law and the plan and the report on the implementation of the plan, it remains within the circle of the government. And MPs are not familiar with the implementation of the strategy or the implementation of this Law. If we say that we care about state property, that it is important to us the way it is put into office, that it is important to us how we manage it, then the Parliament should first and foremost discuss this plan in which the government's activities will be listed and the Central State Office next year, for example. Which bearers, which are deadlines and how much of the funds that will be included in state property management itself. I therefore believe that this Law should provide and prescribe that this property management plan is a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament and certainly later on a report on the implementation of this plan to see how and how the Government is and how these two bodies are, therefore, also the State Office for State Property Management and the Centre for Restructuring and Sales have achieved the draft plan adopted by the Government on the proposal of the State Office. The second thing I also wanted to mention, we are talking persistently about this important tool for managing state property, which is the Central Register of State Property. I think we don't have to find too much justification in the fact that it hasn't been established yet because all state bodies, all public firms know largely how and how much they have these assets and have it listed but it's not systemised in one place. Which certainly is a lack but not so much a lack of justification for the fact that, for example, AUDI or tomorrow, the State Office does not fulfil its obligation to them by means of a strategy entrusted to them by this Law itself. I don't think it's going to change a lot when that central register is established, but it's going to be good, but now it's going to change something in particular in a short time, a way of managing and making it available to the state's property, I doubt it. That's what I said before. We may have, in a simpler way, available information about state property by establishing that central register. But we can still have it now, and it's also available to public companies and central bodies. As for this obligation by the State Property Management Office, I would ask the director, or the head, of this State Office, if he had fulfilled the legal obligation to all Croatian citizens, i.e. as the head of the office in that office. Did he report all those illegally built buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia? Is there, among those 773 thousand reports, how many of them are under the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, to the extent that this State Office has fulfilled its obligation to open the legalisation procedure for illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia? I mention this because, according to the data provided by the Ministry of Spatial Planning in the Republic of Croatia, 773 thousand requests have been submitted, which is indeed a huge amount to be made to the state budget. And we just have to express our regret that most of these funds have not returned to better quality state-owned assets in such a way that a new cadastrian measurement, a new and new want book has been made. And then all these plots that are also state property were clearly arranged and then it would be easier to master with them. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would refer, for example, to the above mentioned article 78, which refers to the sale of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, which was owned by the local self-government unit, so in this sense I will give an example of Mljet Island, where the former head of SDP sold state land to a foreign natural person, then income from a huge financial asset seems to me somewhere around 45 million kuna and thus the municipality of Mljet illegally controlled several years. Now, according to this article of the 78th Law, and because an illegal sale of state land was made, the municipality of Mljet should return the funds to the Republic of Croatia by means of this article. I do not know how much this will really be possible and it seems to me that in this way, as Article 78 provides, it will simply lead to bankruptcy, i.e. I do not know how to eliminate the municipality of Mljet because the former head of the municipality illegally disposes of state property. And now the municipality that made the proceeds, and it didn't have the basis of the law, would practically be with this, I would almost say, in bankruptcy. Furthermore, when it comes to the non-payment of the municipal fee, which the non-payment refers to property owned by the state, I must say here that this will mean a significant reduction in the original funds to local self-government units. When you see what property it is in some units of local self-government, for example the Konavle municipality where the Airport pays a huge amount of municipal compensation to me, it seems to me somewhere over 2 and a half million kuna if we now release the payment of the municipal fee of such property I think it will certainly come to the question of financing units of local self-government. When you see that there are military schools, hospitals, courts, government buildings, etc. And so, now that we've freed these facilities from paying the utility fee, I'm really afraid that a number of local self-government units will be able to function normally. Also, Mr Vice-President, I find it strange to have this law in Article 24 where the Restructure and Sales Centre can also be financed by donations and so on by donations from likely legal entities. I don't know whose other donations that can be a word. If this is so, will it not refer to the possible indications of corrupt acts when one of the centres available to the state property that can sell that state property can be donated by a legal person. It does not mean that this person may later become the owner of a part of state property, but it seems to me that a state body that manages the property, which is in charge of the sale of that property, may receive donations from legal entities. That seems a little questionable to me. I don't know if I'm reading it right, but I don't think that would be good. Since I don't have time, I wanted to ask the question in which way the government holds that the protected ecological-fishing band is the property of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, sovereign rights are being exercised in that band, and sovereignty such as the territorial sea, such as the mainland part of the Republic of Croatia, is not being exercised on that belt. I don't think that's a good idea. But here's the thing, since I don't have time, I can't even elaborate on it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46510	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46511	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If anything is convenient for you, Vice-President pardon the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, so if anything is convenient for political bickering, then it's a debate on the property of the state. Unfortunately, however, many speak of something that is not even addressed, perhaps not good, and I said that at the outset when, in the opening explanation of the Vice-President of the Government, he explained this law which may not have been the parliamentary legislators in this bill's proposal, then perhaps the debate would have gone the other way. Then it would be seen that in principle all assets related to shares, as regards ownership in companies of two, three to 100 percent are practically recorded and exist. Maybe it's not all AUDIO, maybe it's one in some ministries or agencies, but then it's registered and it's... What's the problem with state property is certainly land for a million and one reason, starting with the fact that all that land disposal for the construction of infrastructure was both roadways and also by rounding up agricultural land that was happening in the 50s and 60s, no one had ever spent through a grantshop, and that was best seen when we introduced the OIB and then proved to be a chaos in the garland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm sorry that in this law today we're fighting over things that are irrelevant. So everyone wears their share as far as privatizing someone bigger, someone smaller. But in principle, there are individuals responsible, but perhaps Mr. Greek read with his associates the material that exists in the Tax Administration that was discovered in the garter when the OIB was introduced, which is that, four and a half years ago, when it started with this big project with the sole purpose that everyone's property in this country is seen as knowing where it was starting from that individual who owns the least property to the very state itself. Because the OIB is this identification number that just when you type it, it shows who owns it, and so there's some things I can't avoid. However, in the last year and a half, someone has challenged the project in all those segments, except for that segment of the IRS and finance. So, what happened, and there are official documents when an OIB was tried and only 5% of the owners of the land were seduced through JMBG, and the unique number of citizens was an identification number based on the OIB. And so, until this is settled in the garter, it is difficult to talk about any sorting in the cataster, and the other two laws are the Law on Tourist Land and Law or how we will define it on the maritime good. Because today most of the hotels and which are privatized are also those that are privately built and those that should be privatised because they have no problem with tourist land. So, the land they were built on. And make sure that's one of the reasons why these tourist facilities, along with all the debts they have and that they can't sell on their backs anymore. And until we solve this very difficult we can talk about whether someone will record the property within a few months. So these are the facts that we can't escape from and these are the facts that we should talk about in this House if we all want to, and I don't think there are any MPs here who are against Croatia having no tomorrow, the day after tomorrow economic growth and reduced unemployment, etc. So, the start of the economy. But some things can't be done ad hoc, some things can't be done overnight and some things can't be done administratively. I do not understand, frankly, AUDI was founded from the exact same motives and even wider than what we heard today why this State Property Management Office and this CERP were established or what is already called, so with the exact same initiative and intentions it was founded AUDI for the simple reason that all potential of real estate, raw material owned by the Republic of Croatia is practically to be used with the ultimate objective of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. This was the reason why the Croatian Privatisation Fund was abolished and why the State Property Management Office was abolished, so with the motives to create one body that would be far more expeditative, far faster, far better and practically all shares were administered to it. And there's that fight when we said that Handa would sell its shares to JANAF and that would be the revenue of the state budget. Practically, the state sells itself and you see what is the contradiction of this law. So, in my view, if we wanted to be efficient, it would be far more logical if this AUDI didn't work then those who stopped the functioning of AUDI would move away, if we wanted to point out in a certain way those 50 or how many strategic companies there are even though I claim there are no 50 strategic companies because if HZ has 18 companies are not those 18 companies strategic. It is precisely known according to the proposal of HZ people who were able to go to privatisation and who had to stay in this kind of railway complex, then it is this HZ complex that you cannot solve by name, but you have to solve it in the set. That's the same story you have with HEP and some other companies. So, the company has far less strategically looking at companies that are strategic and to them if they wanted to be given some meaning then in AUDI one part that takes care of it could be formed, and this other part should worry about what should be run by CERRP. And why doesn't this article 19 drink water the way it is? For the reasons that the Agency for the Management of State Property has far greater powers than the State Office can have in its own building area. And that's why all of these tax breaks simply can't go, and especially as far as communal compensation is concerned, because with income tax and taxes, municipal compensation is the highest income of local self-government units. And if they cut off their incomes then practically mayors and mayors have nothing to do with the principle, there'll be mayors and mayors to pay for electricity, water, kindergartens and some other petty repairs, and that's where the story ends. So that's about property. And so that's how it came in, then today we'd have information that's the real value of that property, unfortunately. And that's for sure Mr. Pejnović and his associates know because if they hadn't gotten into that problem they probably wouldn't have written the law then it's that the value of many state-owned companies is unfortunately negative right now. Only when the state claims are taken from these companies, not to mention the demand for these suppliers. So, business creditors. And that's why it's not good to talk like this because it creates some kind of fam that these companies are terribly rich, when the state sells that this will solve the funding program, the deficit problem. But the thing is completely different. Most of these companies and those 5, 10% you sell to current owners and they're practically not going to buy you. And if it were so best said that several tourist facilities, first of all on the Makarska Riviera, which were run by another agency, I don't know what the name of the Adriatic Club was or something like that, it was an agency that managed the property, with former military assets that were tourist complexes, I think 14 or 15 tenders were scheduled for these hotels, practically there were never any offers. And why is that? So precisely because their value with all the loads and their current state is practically down. But when we discuss billions and billions, and unfortunately those billions are gone. The greatest happiness would be to have someone buy it, to build a hotel there and hire a hundred people because next year the state would also get a VAT, a local self-government unit would get a communal fee and income tax, and basically everyone would be happy. And this way, every year, we have nothing but a loss. And what I can't really agree with is that any decision on the sale of strategic companies is excluded by the Croatian Parliament. At least it was known before, no matter who can speak now, but that law was passed by the coalition government, we had a special law on the privatisation of INA and the privatisation of HEP. On the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund were people from the Parliament, the Administrative Council were people from the Government and this Article 13 I think there should be a commitment, the Office therefore fulfils its obligation, submits a report to the Government and, with this, has fulfilled its obligation as a state body of administration. However, we should install the law, and the government is required to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days. And then it is known that there will be a representative of the government who is in charge, whether it will be a fellow Greek or someone else, and the normal thing will be fellow Pejnovic. The same story as FINA, with HBOR and some other institutions that are independent, has big incomes, so they turn big capital and logical thing to be a representative of the government and the head of the institution. Then in a way, you wouldn't be able to say that it's alienated. And unfortunately, this whole story and this law takes place in the evening of the announcement of monetization I will say the cashing of Croatian roads because it is nothing else cashing them and then the logical thing is that this whole law gets a completely different sound. And because of all this together, we in HDZ believe that this law should have gone into two readings that we should have brought it by consensus because of all the bad things that have been going on in the past and I think it would be a big deal for Croatia, unfortunately this way we can't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46512	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46513	You warned your colleague Shuker in your debate about part of the state property of tourist nature and the possibility of tourism development, that's very good. For the first time, however, we now have 36 forms of state property listed in this law that we can meet only one reminder among other things that the state property includes gold bars. I guess that's the ones we sold. But what's more important to me is why I volunteered for the replica, the property seized by criminal acts and offences, so one new type of state property and in all other countries that had thought about what with this property decided that the property that was taken away by criminals, organised crime groups and others would always go for socially useful purposes, children's resorts, counselling centres, communities for the treatment of addiction, working with children for special needs, so the state put the property away from criminals into one socially useful function unprised and thus actually told them that there was this one... value. Such a provision where it is listed as the property of a new species, the new form in Croatia was somewhat small because more often money than real estate and without the possibility of the Croatian Parliament ever again deciding on the availability of state property. And I agree with you this is actually a farewell afternoon of the Croatian Parliament from deciding on state property. We are also deprived of the opportunity to say such initiatives that when a human smuggler, drug, organized crime takes away a villa anywhere, a large facility, the amount of land is placed in such social functions as I said. And that's another reason why the government is terribly wrong and also cowards on the other side who will support this law to deprive us of our ability to influence the availability of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46514	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46515	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar that this House is not choking, and you saw yesterday on the Committee on the Constitution what it looks like then we would have the possibility in this part of which you are talking about to see where these funds go when you bring the state budget, if it must simply be inside. But it's insolent with this property that the state has. The state will have two types of property, one is the one you said and the other is that you forgot and that's again... property and that's a pre-departure deal where in principle the state enters the ownership part. So that's another new piece of property. So this asset that's being seized, you have not only crime, you have another crime for many years where the property is being seized and sold at public auctions, and that's customs work. Therefore, if the applicant agrees, we can either make a proposal or an amendment, or the Government can give an amendment that part of that asset sold can be used for some purposes. However, when you have the revenue of the budget and you have the means for such a purpose on money, it does not say why they serve. So it can be used for that, but I think this property that's going to be acquired by a pre-fashion deal is far more interesting to them and it's very little talk about today and I don't think anyone's talking about it. And I'm sure the state will unfortunately come up with a lot of mastadones to say that they've come back to life one way or another, and then, given that they're more or less the same people they've been led by them, they've tripped again and fallen back on the back of the country, and that's clearly telling us in the future that if we're not willing to restructure the company that it's better to shut it down than let someone out of it pulls it out again for a few years and then re-takes it back into state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46516	Thank you very much. Next... being the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice Prime Minister with his associates. So here is the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia which has no reason to be in this House by emergency procedure because there are all the elements that matter that it is the opposite of the strategy that was brought into this House a month ago. It means what we have in the strategy on governance and availability of state-owned assets that we brought up by 2017 a month ago and the guidelines that are in it it is actually meaningless since there is what is contrary to this strategy in this law. It is scandalous that such procedural incidents are beginning to take place right after Croatia's entry into the EU. This erases everything that has been achieved so far and all those MPs who have talked about the transparency of the system, government, governance, parliamentary decisions being made, the control of the Parliament over the law enforcement and everything that has so far been clearly difficult and at a time when certain colleagues have been in opposition and today when it all falls into the water in opposition. The introduction contains all the individual rules governing the status of acquisition, management, use of property as a lex specialis law on the lease and purchase of a business space, the Law on Agricultural Land is all set out in the introduction of this law by which the laws of certain matters are dealt with. It is alleged that there is no today's real estate register, that it is nowhere that there is no insight into the list of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia is certainly not true. There are certain properties that are not registered because of court proceedings, because of the different conditions in the garter, the different conditions in the cataster, because MORH built some properties that have no trace at all, are not drawn at all, because of the many things that have been missed in a number of years before us by neither the office nor the agency nor the current managers of the State Property Management Office, nor any of us, but simply the procedure was. The military is that no one would find out their secrets didn't even put technical documentation, let alone that it was in grant books or that it was in some kind of map of built objects that were supposed to be recorded. Here's today's incident that happened at Knin where three people were killed is also social state property in the management of the MORH, and unfortunately here in the clearing of the terrain there was an incident where a mine exploded and three people were killed. They're all, perhaps, long ago it should have been committed to local self-government as a series of such military facilities were given. But we are aware ourselves that they dedicated to local units have not experienced their full success many times since local units have not achieved monitoring or funds or their capacity fiscally could not use to bring in the purpose they offered either to the agency or to the state office, and they remain that property still empty and dysfunctional. I know that there are a whole series of attractive properties placed on CDs, listed, with explanations, with pictures offered to all those who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia. However, there are not too many interested in my information and there are not those who come with a bag or with a fat account to immediately start investing. All of this is small and risky when we see that today's law, which, by emergency procedure, comes in the process because of faster, more efficient standardized work, because of the fact that more investors would be in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, they're just gone. Did we reject them by tax policy, fiscal policy, constant changes in tax rates, constant announcements of real estate taxes. Who knows what's going on, and why did the global crisis and recession really do its part, so the investors don't come, do we really not open enough doors? I think there are enough prepared projects in the agency that can be used immediately and give to those who want to build, who want to buy or do anything else with real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. I believe that what is said about the reduction, the restructuring is just the same coat or mask as how to get rid of the current staff, how to tear them apart, how to tell them that there is no place for them and that I believe, and that in Zagreb, there is a rumor that those who leave the Holding have nowhere to go, and then they will probably take care of some and there. Whether it's true or not, we'll see. Time will show itself. We don't want to be evil prophets, but here's everything. We hope this law isn't just to make it like they said... one man, because there are still some norms to where and which amount can be available in certain segments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I hope that as representatives we are aware enough that we can always look for the government, the agency, the DUDI or whatever it is called to come before this House to say what it is in the process of selling, assigning, that we can know what happened to certain properties. But I think they really need to be put into office to help economic Croatia too, so they don't stare empty, so they don't get abandoned, so they don't get devastated like they are now. But I do believe that they will continue to decide unilaterally on the moments when someone is given something without compensation. For example, in Brijuni, there is a whole set of theaters and they use these spaces, and their guests are both our representatives and our vice presidents and they all spend the summer there, for two months in the process of some sort of directing or hosting for 7 kuna use the benefits and no one at all. I hope that this will no longer be repeated and that this property, as for all others, must be equally valued and charged so that there is no difference between the categories of people in Croatia. We believe that this debt that has arisen in this past time has its own justification, that even further borrowing and helping state-owned companies have found themselves in difficulty that there will be no further follow-up because there are a lot of legal matters missing in this law, and they concern all of the eight pages that the Ministry of Justice has understood in order for this law to be transparent, functional, safe. It was supposed to still be installed as so far for any decision on any intention needed the consent of the State's Attorney's Office, those people who followed, knew how. Perhaps this was also the cause that not enough real estate could be put into operation because many times a certain state attorney's office had agreed whether the county or only the State's attorney's office did not agree with certain proposals and did not respect them, and they said further efforts had to be made to ensure that everything was transparently agreed on in the contracts or in the conclusions reached by the Government or which the agency wanted to make. I don't really know what the rush is with this law, why we didn't discuss it in two readings, why we didn't do everything, why we didn't listen to all the relevant factors that talk about there being a lot of legal gaps in this law that wouldn't do any good, but would contribute to suspicion. The suspicion that titres are constantly in the air will be aggravating factor for the work of the people who will be in that segment, whether the centre or the central body that will manage the state property. No matter what it was called, I'm sure it won't be easy for them, they'll be constantly under the glass and the public, us MPs, as well as the judicial authorities who have to worry. It's been like this before, so there's one roast that makes a man in the investigation for a long time. Who knows what's going to happen in the future. Not that I'm afraid for you, but this suspicion that is emanating from such a non-involvement of what experts are proposing legally raises doubts that there might still be non-transparent activities in future work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46518	Thank you very much. It was exactly 10 minutes. It is up to the representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46519	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the council and the MPs here in the end I just want to thank you for the constructive debate. We've really heard a lot of good discussions, and I'm just going to try some of these questions very briefly to look back on. Namely, we can immediately say that we accept the amendment and the proposal to send the reports on the implementation of the Annual Property Management Plan to the Croatian Parliament. That's the first thing I want to say. Therefore, the contribution to further transparency of the entire asset management process. Unlike earlier, I want to say the same thing when the highest judicial authorities followed the real estate management processes, so that part of the state property may not have been so noticed, but in this law we suggested that the DORH gave an opinion on the other part of the property, which means selling shares in companies. So that part is actually covered by state institutions, not by the regulation or engagement of law offices, that it was mostly a practice in AUDI which was in accordance with the law, that we understand each other, right? But now we're raising that kind of responsibility to state institutions that will monitor the process and sell the stake means privatising the company with which we again contribute to another additional step and to one additional control in the management of the total state property. As for the Register of Assets, I would like to say that indeed the Register of Assets is the key to asset management. Why? So it's not a formal act, it's an act that will allow you to see what it's managed by. I will tell you an example of my ministry in which, before this separation of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, there was a list of 27 thousand dwellings that were assigned to different users all these years after the war or through the purchase or in this section through the donation or in the rental of exiles and refugees in Croatia who have not yet resolved the housing issue and where we did not really have a clear understanding of where these apartments are, how many of them are. These people also had an obligation to pay some rents and some small liabilities. On this basis, the ministry subsidized certain costs, so we did not know whether this figure was true and whether it was planable to say so, whether it was possible to determine and assess how much this would be next year, etc. I'm just telling you as an example that without a register, you can't even plan to manage the property without talking about all these categories of assets that are written in the law. In fact, there has been a lot of mention today of whether it should be an emergency procedure, not necessary. Indeed, here I will agree with all those who have said that a different way, so a way in two readings would also help us in this part of a better processing of the document itself with much less ambiguity, failure and all that we have heard here today and immediately appreciated. And we'll bring that in through the amendments. However, here I am asking you to also respect these reasons of the government that I mentioned in the introduction, which is that we really need to move forward with the process because in this kind of now integrated effort to help investors in Croatia to strengthen the business climate in Croatia through this segment of property management, I say especially after entering the EU when we expect a little dynamization of this whole process. Also, I would like to stress that when it comes to the institution's leadership that this is an emphasis on fellow Pejnovic and his roles, however, is a little excessive. He's a man who's been around for a while, I think he's doing a good job. Now he may get another gram of work more, but he will not be the only man who decides on the property of the Republic of Croatia, because in some situations he can decide up to a million kunas of asset value. It's been five million in chief's jurisdiction, but that's a little bit when it comes to valuable property. And everything else actually goes through those commissions and the CERRP Administrative Council and in some cases more than 100 million kunas to the Croatian government. So we can't talk about usurping property management from one man. It just doesn't stand. I also want to say that when it comes to these companies where we may not have made a clear distinction when it comes to strategic companies, there really aren't 55 of them. I have always stressed and the law says it by strategic companies and companies of special state interest. So, one is strategic, and the other is of particular national interest. Those strategic ones on the current list there are only 21. And that is precisely what includes the public sector and all those companies that manage the natural resources of Croatia and which are indeed from this aspect strategic and where they will be led with full attention in the coming period. Any treatment of Croatian property defined by other regulations, such as agricultural land or not, will continue to be primarily implemented under these regulations, and this is clearly stated in this law. So this law is not lex specialis in that sense, but the original laws apply and I hope there won't be any problems. Here are a few things that I wanted to mention in the conclusion in this debate and I say once again really thank you for the comprehensive debate and very constructive. Given the sensitivity of this law, I think this debate was on the level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46520	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. That's how we exhausted the list of people that were registered for speech on this subject. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 442. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 6 votes against and 32 abstentions, have been accepted by the abstentions to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to request the representative of the motionary, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic, on behalf of the Government, the Proposer. Amendment number one, Honorable Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46522	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, therefore the first amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46523	No, no. Amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46524	The amendment of one Government was in Article 2(1), which is amended and reads as follows: "The management of state assets involves all systematic and coordinated activities, good practices which the state is optimally and sustainablely managing its assets in order to achieve its organisational strategic plan". Therefore, the provision was incomprehensible in its statement, so these amendments make the meaning of the provision more clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46525	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I am opening a debate on amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 39 abstentions, have adopted amendment number one of the Governments of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46526	Therefore, Article 13 adds paragraph 2 which reads: "The report referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament for a statement. Therefore, it is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia deliver this report, which is essentially an additional contribution to the transparency of the entire system where the Croatian Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss the report, the property management plan, the implementation of the property management plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46527	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's answering for a word? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 38 abstentions have been accepted by amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46528	Therefore, Amendment 3 in Article 17(6), the words "Government of the Republic of Croatia" are replaced by the words "Chairship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Management of Strategic Trade Companies". This amendment therefore complies with paragraph 6 of Article 4 of the final proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46529	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? How about a score? I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 38 votes against Amendment No. 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 4th, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46530	Thank you very much. In Article 19(1), the words ‘unless a special regulation is specified otherwise’ shall be deleted after the words ‘in the case of an asset’. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment is, in fact, in line with the provision of Article 19 of the Regulation which regulates the relevant area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46531	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 4. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 4. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 37 votes against the accepted amendment No. 4. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 5th, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46532	Therefore, Article 30(1) is amended and reads: "The Centre has an Administrative Council of 9 members composed of the Head of the State Office, Deputy Minister of Economy, Deputy Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Tourism, Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Deputy Minister of Defence appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a representative of the trade union and representatives of employers." In relation to the original proposal in this amendment, the number of members of the Governing Council is increasing to 9 with the Deputy Defence Minister being a member of the Governing Council for the reason that the Centre among other things assigns shares to Croatian wartime people with no compensation for the Homeland War and members of the family of the mortally injured, i.e. the prisoner or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, while the representative of employers is a member of the Governing Council as one of the sides of the social partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46533	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 5. Government of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46534	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, given that this law provides for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia to receive Croatian defenders, therefore, and in the debate on this law, and we are now stressing our dissatisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has respected union requirements because the normal thing for these companies to have employees and the logical thing is that trade unions and union representatives thus protect the rights of those who work in them. It was subsequently imposed, following intervention by the Committee on the Economy and Intervention of the representatives of the HUP, a further note was made that, since most companies owned by the Republic of Croatia had private ownership and therefore, the representatives of the HUP proposed that it would be good for the representatives of the HUP to be in the Governing Council. The government respected that, too. However, when it was necessary to respect the right for those who, based on their participation in the Homeland War and who have the right to certain shares to decide on this, were also given the opportunity to decide on this, the Government did not accept it, but put in place the representatives of the domestic war associations instead of the representatives of the Ministry of Defence. We don't think that the principle of justice has been governed because if the trade unions and the HUPs were able to get their representatives here, then the logical thing is that here are the representatives of the Homeland War Associations. Because the Defense Department is an administrative body, but it's not the body representing that population. We therefore believe that the Government should have done so, we are sorry that it did not and therefore cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46535	Thank you very much. Are there any other interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 5. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 37 votes against Amendment No. 5. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6th, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46536	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, Article 32, subparagraph 9, reads: "In the initiative of the resolution ministry, it proposes to the congregations of the companies of the supervisory boards and boards of directors in companies and other legal persons not declared of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia." The amendment states that the provision in question is in line with the Commercial Society Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46537	I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. Six. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's calling? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. Six. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 37 votes against Amendment No. Six. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Seven, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46538	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, in Article 40(1), subparagraph 1 is amended and a public tender is made, the following subparagraph 6 is added: the sub-paragraph 7 of direct sales. In paragraph 3, non-quota is replaced by the words and which have not been traded. In paragraph 4, whose shares are not listed are replaced by words and whose shares have not been traded. In paragraph 8, and whose shares are quoted, the words and shares of which have been traded shall be replaced. In paragraph 9, which shares are quoted shall be replaced by the words and which shares have been traded. Therefore, in order to remove any doubt by interpreting certain provisions of the law, it is proposed to install these above-mentioned amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46539	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 7. Who's calling? I estimate there's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 84 read this vote in favour of, 34 against and 3 abstentions, Amendment No. 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we are going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46540	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 4 That's right. The amendment to Article 4 shall be rejected. The argument therefore states that the term appears in the legal text so that all forms of state property that are not listed in Article 4 would be also hypothetically covered and all with a view to the more precise interpretation of what the property is owned by the Republic of Croatia and who, in relation to the same exercise of ownership or management rights, is based on this proposal of the law or already applicable regulations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Associations established so-called union properties on which the Republic of Croatia became the owner. In view of the importance of this part of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Proposer is of the opinion that, regardless of their legal character within the meaning of the Property Act and other real rights, Article 10(4) should remain in this form in the draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46541	Thank you very much. The chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46542	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46543	Thank you very much. Amendment number 2 to Article 56 of the Honored Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46544	Therefore, the amendment concerns Article 56i is therefore accepted in accordance with the specific regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46545	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the amendment of Honorable Representative Branko Hrg. Amendment number one, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46546	The amendments to Article 13 are therefore accepted. It is explained that the Government has added a new paragraph 2 to Article 13 by amendment. The report referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The applicant considers that this formulation ensures additional transparency in the management and availability of ownership properties of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46547	Thank you very much. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 to Article 18, Honored Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46548	Yes, the amendment to Article 18 is rejected. The Republic of Croatia must act responsibly and participate in the management and availability process of state assets, and has therefore rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46549	Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46550	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't think it's necessary for the state office to be particularly involved in granting consent. He has public insight, a public debate on changes in spatial plans and can thus participate as I wrote in the explanation is actually placed in some privileged situation. Anyway, when spatial plans are made, we have troubles at local level with state bodies and institutions. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46551	Thank you very much. Please, who is for amendment number two of the respected representative of Branko Hrg that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number three of the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46552	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 19 shall be accepted in part. It is explained that the Government, with its amendment in Article 19(1) of the property, has added, unless the special regulation is different, which we believe is also the meaning of this amendment in the main acceptance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46553	We accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46554	The amendment you've withdrawn, and what the government has done has been accepted. Amendment number four, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46555	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendment to Article 54(6) of this amendment is rejected and the reasons for which Article 13 of the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been added to the new paragraph 2. It is established that the management plan report is submitted to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, and thus we believe that the obligations of the proposed amendments are consummated by the provision of Article 13(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46556	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Hrg, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46557	Well, this is about individual amounts of over 100 million kuna, and I thought it would be normal for such large transactions and for the sale or management of property for individual cases to be reported by the Parliament after such activity has been carried out, rather than waiting for the overall report. I think that's how it should be, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46558	Please state who is for amendment number four of the respected representative of Branko Hrg that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 5th Vice-President of the Government on Article 56
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46559	Therefore, this article in point 5 is rejected. The explanation states that Article 13 of which included the same report that I spoke about earlier was actually an obligation to consume, which is very similar to that of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46560	Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46561	Thank you very much. So this is about a special way of making real estate available to the Republic of Croatia. The name of the special way of available requires probably some special treatment, requires both the Croatian Parliament and the public to be particularly and familiar with it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46562	Thank you very much. Please plead. Who's for Amendment No. The 5th Honorable representative of Branka Hrg that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46563	So, thank you very much, Mr. President. And this amendment is being rejected for the same reason as those before. So the same story or similar story is related so that the explanation is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46564	Thank you very much. Amendment holder Branko Hrg, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46565	Well, this Mr. Vice President's argument is the same, but the matter isn't the same. So at this point, we have a certain mass of space that isn't used functionally enough, and at the same time we're paying big rents for spaces used by state bodies. So I think, the idea and intensity was to get a chance to get one whole picture once. But here's the deal, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46566	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Dear Vice President, we are going to the amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Party of Serbia. Amendment No. Article 13 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46567	So Article 13 will actually remain as it is because, in the same way as inserting this amendment of the Government, which is being sent to the Croatian Parliament for an insight into the most extensive proposal of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46568	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46569	Thank you. Well, we're pleased if we and our amendment moved the government to think in the direction you've now said and withdraw this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46570	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 2. of the same Club of Representatives on Article 49 of the Honored Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46571	Therefore, the view of the Government is that this amendment is rejected and the argument is, Article 74. The law on compensation for property seized during the Yugoslav Communist Government is prescribed as follows: on the proposal of the former owner, the court may impose a temporary measure prohibiting the making available of pensions subject to the severance of property under the provisions of this Act if the previous owner makes it likely that there is a risk of estrangement of property or for other justified reasons in accordance with the provisions of a special law. Therefore, in addition to the proposal for a provisional measure, the previous owner is required to provide evidence within 30 days of the date of submission of the proposal that he has initiated the procedure for the compensation of the seized property before the competent authorities. The proposer therefore considers that the protection of applicants for real estate repossessed during the Yugoslav communist rule has been fully ensured.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46572	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46573	I thank you for this last finding, Mr. Minister, that this fully protects the property of the people who are, therefore, the property that is in return. We at the Club of the SDSS think that it is not fully protected property that is in accordance with the Law on Compensation should be returned because it comes back because it is not just about judicial proceedings, it is also about the proceedings of another species. It is also about procedures conducted in front of local self-government and regional self-government units. And besides, practice disproves this claim. In practice, there are cases that say otherwise that there are both abuses, and manipulations of assets that are subject to return. That's why we thought this thing should be further strengthened, so further strengthen the legal security of the parties seeking and waiting for the return of their assets. I suggest, that is why we have proposed this amendment in this form. And I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46574	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 2. A Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm making a point. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. That's what we've exhausted the amendments to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. ... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am voting on the final proposal of the law, please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for and 37 votes against the adopted Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. And another proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I am voting on the following conclusion: The State Office for State Property Management will draw up a report on the state of state property in the Republic of Croatia and submit it to the Croatian Assembly within one year of the entry into force of the new Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia. Please plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. They're all restrained, all right. Score. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion did not get the required majority, he received 14 votes for and 105 abstentions. Thank you very much. We would now move on to the next item of the agenda which is: - Final proposal of the Tax Debt Bill caused by the economic crisis, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 438 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted to a hearing in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, dear Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Tax Debt Bill caused by the economic crisis, the reason for the adoption of the law is still a significant number of entrepreneurs who, as a result of the economic crisis, come into a state of indifference that is manifested in the inability to regularly execute obligations towards the state and workers. Subjects to the application of the law are entrepreneurs as defined by the General Tax Law, or all those entrepreneurs in difficulty who have not submitted a proposal to open the pre-departure settlement procedure and who have not been granted a reprogramme in accordance with the Tax Debt Taxation Act due to the economic crisis or have been abolished. The purpose of the law is to facilitate the payment of tax debts by reprogramming tax debt at a more favourable interest rate lower than the legal interest rate. In short, I would tell you because when we took over the executive's behaviour that this was the third tax debt reprogramme ever since. In short, I would tell you the effects of tax debt 1 and 2 which was the 1st reprogarm in February 2012 as you know later was in July 2012 meaning until it was not yet the Financial Business Act and pre-departure settlement, so there were two reprogrammes. Here I'm going to add that reprogramme that was in 2011 that the former government also brought to help entrepreneurs and I'm going to tell you some numbers as they move. It is generally approved for 96423 entrepreneurs when we watch all three reprogrammes when we look at the last two reprogrammes of 7360 entrepreneurs using a tax debt reprogramme and over 60 thousand employees are employed in these companies. So when we look at the amount of debt reprogrammed in the first reprogrammed year of 2011, 1.6 billion tax debt was reprogrammed, then in the second reprogramme in 2012, the first since the arrival of the new government was 2 billion kuna and in this third reprogramme, as we said in July 2012, around around a billion means a total of 4.7 billion kuna of tax reprogramme through these three reprogrammes. And you can see it's an extremely large amount. As mainly payments run and means how much this meant for entrepreneurs, it is seen in this part that the payment is satisfactory so that they have received a certain part of the day through this reprogramme to be able to fulfil their obligations. Thus, a total of around 151 million were charged for the period somewhere, and a total of just a little over a billion was charged. So somewhere around 90% of the tax debt that has been given through three reprogrammes is being executed. If we look at it, let's say something a little smaller is about 80% of these other two reprogrammes. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has recognised the difficulties in which numerous entrepreneurs have found themselves and through these reprogrammes it is also given another opportunity for those who, through this part of the pre-fashion settlements who have not resolved their commitments to the state to try again to regulate that part of the cash flow that is currently burdening entrepreneurs to put a certain period of time and to start to implement those obligations. What I'm about to say is, with the amendment to the government tomorrow, we're going to change Article 5 and it's only about the interest rate. The interest rate so far in the laws that we had on the reprogramme related to the Treasury's vault records annually meant 365 days and increased by 5% points, which was somewhere to mean about 10% of the interest was to those who opted for the reprogramme. Since we are 1.7 full members of the EU, we need to apply to that part of the interest account to the Single Market accounts, and in that part will, in fact, be amended tomorrow, because we are subsequently also consulted by the Competition Agency which is no longer in charge of support, because the support is now under the commission. But in order to fully comply with the norms, it will change in that part of the interest account where it will now consist of a reference interest rate increased by the margin on the risk of individual entrepreneurs under State aid rules. In determining the risk margin for individual entrepreneurs, according to the Commission's statement, it will link how much he has the quality of the collateral he will actually give for the programme. So, here we will also set out in Article 6 that they will also be able to provide insurance instruments for the insurance of the payment of the tax debt such as the default guarantee of the bank, the right to real estate or the balance of the debt signed by the creditor of the payer or the guarantee of another person. What's important now is that they will also depend on the rate of interest given the form of collateral given to those to whom they report. So those who are entrepreneurs offer a quality collateral will actually be lower than the one that actually doesn't have such a collateral. It's about the reference rate here. The reference rate was actually prescribed by the General Competition Board of the European Commission and currently stands at 2.49 for the Republic of Croatia. This is the initial one that must later increase for this margin, for the risk that again as I told you depends on that collateral that someone will contribute to this tax debt programme so that in that range of interest rates there will be an amount of let's say 6 and a half percent to 12. So she'll vary depending on how much someone offers a quality collateral. That's the difference between what we had in the previous law just so that part wouldn't be considered state support. Because any tax debt reprogramme that is in difficulty can always be considered not to say under quotes by some kind of support to those entrepreneurs who regularly carry out their obligations. However, this is exactly the difference that we have to implement in order for the Commission to say that these are market conditions and that in fact none of these entrepreneurs are that the one that came forward is not in a more favourable position. And that's why this way of moving interest rates that is let's say very similar to and banking to some kind of model that when you offer a better quality collateral interest rate should be lower than when you don't have collateral. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia introduces let's say now and the third reprogramme because we are aware that it is still a difficult economic crisis, the fifth year is recession and that many entrepreneurs who somehow managed to survive somehow the first and second year of that recession somehow five years of the constant decline of gross domestic product and the severe contractions of the economy that we have said here were mostly caused by deep and difficult difficulties in businessmen. However, all the measures and instruments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance are still trying to encourage businesses to regulate their tax obligations properly so that there is no provision that is often present in the public on tax repression, on the very care of the collection of tax debt, on the very closure itself, but that you see one large number of instruments, meaning from the first, second, this third Financial Business Act, the pre-departure settlement. So you have, watch out for a year and a half, you have five, six instruments to allow all these entrepreneurs to try to carry out their duties neatly. So this is considered a qualitative and significant support for the economy, not as it is actually trying to force a certain part of the public to perform a certain tax press. We said order must be introduced, but those obligations to the state must be regulated. So here I hope that you will also support this measure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is aware that, if the economy has not yet shown the real part of the sector, that it has not yet shown that part of the growth, that in this part we will be let's say that I am not saying last, but really last in that part that it will try to turn those figures in a positive direction and that we will no longer talk about the reprogrammes. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia is once again behind the economy and it shows it by its own measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46577	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the board of the Croatian Parliament want to submit reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the club of independent representatives and respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46578	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, the esteemed Mr. Representatives. First, I look forward to the name of the law itself, so the proposal for a tax debt bill caused by the economic crisis. And he is right, and he is right. In one vivid way, he paints the moment in which the earth is simply located. So, only the ministry acknowledges that the Republic of Croatia or that the non-payment of that tax debt is caused by the economic crisis among other things. I claim that this is one of the most important laws that this Parliament can adopt at this time, and I am even surprised that there is no greater interest in MPs. The only thing that is problematic in this law by my court is this Article 13, meaning these final provisions, evicting the lex where it literally states that this law is in effect on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. I mean problematic. Those who seek a reprogramme need immediate assistance would need to meet immediately in a reprogramme today, and I do not wait until I know when it will be published in the National Journal. Anything else if we do not enable this reprogramme to be immediately harmful for both the country and the economy, it will be harmful for both craftsmen and for workers working with such employers, for example, it will be harmful for entrepreneurs and for the country itself. Many are simply blocked, many of them especially these merchants, caterers, etc. from the coast to the further sealed business space where they work, they're about to be shut down, they're before closing. I said, a lot of places are filling up, and I think that's something that needs to be changed right away. Spaces should be opened, people should be allowed to work, people should be allowed to earn, to pay taxes, to settle obligations. One word to fulfill that economic function for which they are established. I'm afraid this law will take people for another 10 days. Why am I stressing this particular problem? 'Cause a lot of people on the coast are just gonna get away with it. At the time of the season, they should somehow send a message to all that those who will in some way submit that request or apply to be able to work. And that is why, or we need to bring down the legions to the lowest possible extent, normally we can't until the law is published in the People's Newspaper, or we need to make sure that this law is de facto published on Friday after the adoption. The second thing I want to say is also good that the government simply acknowledges here on page 1, where I quote: "as a result of an economic crisis that has a significant impact both globally and in the Republic of Croatia, a significant part of entrepreneurs have come into a state of indifference in recent years. Individence is reflected in the inability to regularly make payments to the state and workers through irregular payouts, contributions to suppliers, banks and is caused by disturbances in the world market and the country's market due to reduced income and reduced volume of business." A short time ago, the deputy minister said that 16 559 applications for reprogramming the tax debt amounting to €9.4 billion were submitted, referring to the great interest of the entrepreneurs in this payment method, and 9 643 claims for the tax debt amounting to € 4.6 billion and should certainly be noted that the payment per approved reprogramme is about 88%. So the charge is 88%, so people are trying, people are struggling, people are kind of sacrificing themselves that they can save themselves and these companies that they own. In fact, I even claim that mainly when it comes to small employers that they are far greater victims even than workers who work in their companies. What is worst, however, when we talk about this economic crisis that has been going on in these areas since the 1990s or before, it started, mostly since wartime and after 2007, that most vital generation that means some business started 20 years ago, let those people who participated in conversion and privatisation now have meaning about 50, 55, 60 years and so it's simply a vis-a-vis that crisis almost dared to say an economically lost generation. In one word, their time slowly passes or goes by. Let's just imagine this latest ruling by the Commercial Court in Zagreb on the case "Franak" or "Switzerac". Citizens are guaranteed a return of money and entrepreneurs because under quotes they are "professional" not. There's no way, I say, that no company with interest greater than the one that receives or receives the state for the placement of its bonds and survives as well. Wanted someone to believe or not today are the most privileged jobs in public service and it doesn't matter if it's about municipalities, whether it's about cities, whether it's about the state, whether it's about agencies, whether it's about county or county, whether it's about state firms, whether it's about municipal services or customs. Did anyone or any of you ask, come on, help me get a job at a small firm there? Maybe, but mostly people ask me to come to work in a water pipeline, in some Croatian electricity industry, in which I know in some roads, highways more specifically help me get to work behind those companies behind which the budget of any local self-government of any state stands. And that's why I think it needs to be maximum flexibility. Needless to understand, it absolutely needs to understand the needs of the state because without the orderly collection of taxes, contributions, other taxes that the state must collect, there are neither our salaries nor the salaries of 270 thousand people from health care, social services, which I know about schools and so on, customs officers, police, cannot, no pensions, no health care, no public debt service etc., etc. However, I dare say that at this point, small entrepreneurs have almost exhausted, not almost, but exhausted the last reserve, and I have the last chance to get the impression that they have now after these reprogrammes have started because it is important for the banks to serve their obligations. So the last opportunity was given to banks and therefore the state must give an opportunity through this programme but it is good that the state is going with an amendment to this Article 5, given the urgency of the interest rate. As it was set, the interest was 10 percent and more. Now it's going to be between 6.5 to 12%. But wait, gentlemen, which of these little ones who are in trouble follow interest from 10% to 12%. I think the maximum should be one of 6.5% of which the state or something lower gets for this placement of its bonds. And the question is, will the banks define their interest? A little while ago, the deputy minister spoke of the quality of the collage. So whoever has better to express myself like that will pay less interest, the other will pay which is certainly in bigger problems of bigger interest. It's not the point I'm saying at this point just to collect the debt from that small or I don't know what business subject it has to be the primary interest of the state to save the company so that the next day they can pay both taxes and contributions, that they can stay alive, that they can also pay interest if they reach some deadlines when they don't fulfil their obligations to simply keep that economic activity out. So if the law itself says that the bill on the collection of tax debt caused by the economic crisis, it does not mean that for this moment at which entrepreneurs have found themselves guilty or exclusively guilty. Yeah, probably in one part, but we have to let them in, because the question is, what happens in a year or two? I know people who have, like, 20 workers, now they have maybe two and they work themselves. I know people who, a few years ago, had seven or eight employees and just now work alone and try to keep and save what they have. Who's to blame that they can't do business and they had 20 people? For example. Ten years they've had 20 people, over 10 years they've paid a thousand salaries, a thousand contributions, so that's minimum over 10 years 5 million kuna not counting VAT without counting the leases, not counting everything else that's coming here. How many goods did they buy? That's what it's really about. Obligations need to be settled, but you realize that the economy is mainly what little I dare say in front of purgatory. Which means Europe to us, that's what we'll see. I say it's a big chance. It's a new opportunity, a big one I don't know the chance, I don't know the emergency, but I'm also afraid that we'll literally meet at the purgatory. A few days ago, I read in the Morning List if I'm not wrong about whether in Virovitica, Vinkovci, I don't know where not, someone's selling candy for 1 billion kuna. And that big strong one says either I'm going to sell it now or I'm going to fail on a long time. Now if that's how he thinks about joining the EU, someone who's big who sells something for a billion kunas and how to think about these little ones. The economy is gentlemen in front of purgatory, and many will simply pass through these few years of hell so that they can survive, so that they can settle their obligations to workers, so that they can settle their obligations to the state, so that in one word they can survive. It's my impression, I don't have to be right, that the severity of the crisis in 2013 is the same if not greater than the one where the country or economy was found in 2009, 2010. He'd even dare say he's not in front of us the hardest. Look at the season. It's not good, it's not what we hoped. That's why tax collectors should be familiar with that reality. The key provisions are this Article 4, Article 5. Something I was talking about. And what I think would be correct would be that the law would be applied immediately, but today to say, or that some guideline of the tax administration on the ground and that interest is no more than the one mentioned 6.5% because above, the question of whether the Croatian, Istrian, Slavonian, Dalmatian, Međimurje economy will be able to handle. All in all, it's a good thing we have such a law. It would not be good if it were the last such tax debt bill caused by the economic crisis, it is good to meet the economy, but once again I repeat the question of what this economy can do at this point other than hope that the next day will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46579	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. The SDP Club of Croatia is next and Croatia's respected representative, Nadica Jelas. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46580	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The tax debt bill is an intervention measure whereby the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration has so far been two times or we can say three if we include that law of the previous government in the last two years allowed economic operators to reprogramme the tax debt resulting from the economic crisis. At a maximum of 36 months and at a favourable interest rate. Now the law is passed, better to say, extends for the third time because they are still the current reasons why it was adopted. Proposer representatives say it is the last time. So this is the last chance or we can paint the last train that entrepreneurs can jump into to catch the tax debt reprogramme. The reprogramme may include those entrepreneurs that have not been included in the programme so far, those who have not been included in the pre-departure settlement and, according to the tax administration estimates, are about 59 000 and those to whom the programme has been approved in one of the previous two times but has been abolished in the meantime because the taxpayers did not properly meet the obligations. The reprogramme cannot include entrepreneurs who have outstanding debts and according to long creditors, and not only according to the tax administration, and for the reason that this Law solves only tax debts. Of course, including contributions. Another condition for inclusion in this measure is that the taxpayer has been compliant with the tax obligations since 1 February 2013. The tax debt bill is one of the three complementary laws that make up a single legal platform to address the problem of insolvency in Croatia. The second law is the Financial Business Act and the pre-bank settlement and the third is the Banking Act. So far, more than 16 and a half thousand entrepreneurs have been involved in the reprogramme with claims for a 9.4 billion kuna debt reprogramme. If we add to this data that a pre-departure settlement has so far entered more than 4000 and 3 hundred debtors about 40 billion kunas of different outstanding liabilities, so tax returns, which are different because this other law does not only solve tax obligations but also other obligations. It is obvious that entrepreneurs have recognised both of these laws as quality instruments of insolvency law as good tools that can solve the problem of their outstanding debts. In the beginning, the owners and management of companies were quite untrustworthy of these rescue and restructuring models of companies but now this process is becoming more and more stalking, all the players of the settlement from the entrepreneurs themselves to the audit firms are already well aware of what needs to be done and the interest of entrepreneurs for these two debt models is growing. It is certainly that one of the important under the quotes of "motivation factors" for entrepreneurs and the strong political will of the current government is that the problem of individence is indeed resolved because it is one of the conditions of economic recovery. In fact, resolving the problem of non-payment was one of the pre-election promises of the current coalition government, with the problem being marked absolutely priority. Let me remind you, we faced the same problem in the 2000-2003 period, and then we successfully solved it. We will do so this time even though the situation today is incomparably more difficult and incomparably complex. So the entrepreneurs recognized this government's determination to help them through the debt reprogramme and through the pre-war settlement, but also the determination that everyone who fails through these two models will be deleted from the economic scene through bankruptcy with liquidation. In fact, the task of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement is not only to once clean up old dubiosis but to stand a permanent system that will no longer allow the non-payment of liabilities and the creation of long-term debts. They will have to be paid within the legal time limits, and whoever doesn't want to or can do it will either have to go into a pre-demand settlement or into liquidation. It is clear that the Law on Tax Debt and the Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement also seeks to preserve as many companies as possible and as many jobs as possible. Therefore, it wants to create a stable economic system that will ensure the continued filling of the state budget. Unfortunately, it is also clear that a significant number of non-payment companies will be deleted from the court register in the process. At the time when the first Law on a special rate of tax debt was adopted, this was in the spring of 2011, the blocked accounts had 74 000 business entities. And the outstanding debts amounted to 45 billion kuna. Various business entities have been blocked for more than a year. Each third entity has been blocked for more than five years. And those subjects were practically dead. But their owners were opening up new companies, two-, three-, four-, five- and so on. As soon as they accumulated their debts on one, they opened the next. Such practice confirmed that 290,000 business entities were registered in Croatia at the time, but only less than half of them or that 46% were alive. So it worked actively. But there's no end to the infamous statistics. Each other active business entity did not have any employee. So more than half of the Croatian Economic Corps was made up of phantom economic operators. Fantomic subjects that have spread an unprecedented contagion of indifference. Finally, let's sum up what the results have achieved so far through debt reprogrammes, but also through a pre-bank settlement. Total outstanding liabilities on April 30th this year amounted to slightly more than 37 billion kuna, down from the end of March of this year. In the same month of 2011, these commitments amounted to 45 billion kuna. So, by this reduction we see positive shifts in.... /. Individuality level. The latest official data suggests that on May 31st of this year, liquidity ratios have been further reduced to 36.7 billion kuna. What is the contribution of the Tax Debt Reprogramme Act, the reduction of the level of liquidity? Out of the 16.5 thousand applications submitted for the 9.4 billion kuna reprogramme, 9643 tax debt claims of 4.7 billion kuna were positively resolved, so for the exact half of the debt reported. In doing so, it is important to stress that payment by approved reprogrammes is very good, i.e. 88% and as the minister said a little while. When it comes to the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, the situation is next. Of the 4340 claims received for the pre-fashion settlement of the heavy 42 billion kuna so far, about 3000 claims have been resolved, 328 claims worth more than 7 billion kuna have been resolved, so the restructuring plans have been adopted, while 2631 requests have been resolved negatively or have been rejected, i.e. an automatic bankruptcy with liquidation has been initiated and their debt has been deleted from the unsettled liability records. In a few months, indivisibility should be reduced to a level of 15 to 20 billion kuna, which, of course, will again be the most credit for the implementation of the pre-fashion settlement project. After cleaning up the economy by autumn, so to speak, from financial dues and excessive debts, and after restructuring of public enterprises and after the resolution of the health system, there will be conditions for a consistent and full application of the legal provisions on payment deadlines of 30 days and 60 days, respectively. Therefore, when the state as a major non-payment generator settles the situation in its ranks and when the pre-banking settlement process leads to a significant reduction in the level of non-payment, then all will have to comply with payment deadlines or bear the legal consequences envisaged for non-payment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46581	Thank you, too, Your Honor. You have one replica of your exposure. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46582	Thank you. Well, here's Representative Jelash, I understand that each of us should defend our political position, and when we are in a position to support the government, and that's quite logical, but this level of false and unfounded optimism that you've brought out today, which is not resting in your debate, which is really not resting at all, I think it's a matter of fact that over a few months, we're going to be aware of 15 to 20 billion kuna, that in the recovery of health I think we're really going to see here alive and see, the words have been gilded to you, but I really don't see what these problems are resting on, and we're going to see in a few months what individence is going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46583	Replicate response, esteemed representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46584	My colleague Djurovic, I'm really sorry I didn't convince you at all. So I didn't say this by sucking it out of my finger, saying using data, data from the Ministry of Finance and tax administration data. So if that data can't be trusted, I don't know what to believe. I sincerely hope that happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46585	Thank you very much. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46586	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Here we are facing a practically third law that seeks to resolve early tax bookkeeping cancer, not indifference, because if you forgive someone or someone doesn't pay someone in the end, they always remain the one who didn't get their money, and ultimately they always remain in someone's debt. That's what we're talking about when it comes to pre-fashion deals. However, what I find controversial about this law is that I will begin, first of all, unlike the law when we talk about artisans who have stopped their craftsmanship and the rest are obliged, there clearly in the law it indicated that it was the write-off of interest, and that the principal debt can go into the reprogramme, and here by reading the law, interest is clearly not written off, but the principal plus interest goes into the reprogramme. And now the question is, then I said that that law is unfair, and then the question is asked, and now this law is unfair, because if you forgive someone for interest, and he's engaged in the same entrepreneurial activity, and the other one who has an organisational form is not forgiven for interest but is given the opportunity to pay back the debt in 60 wars. If this is different, then if interest is reached agreement on the reprogramme is deleted, and only the principal remains, then that should be stated in the law. You can't tell from the law. So the law talks about the total debt, and that's why I'm curious about what the difference is because the taxpayer is a taxpayer. Regardless of the organisational shape, the economic crisis has hit both craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but if we know that somewhere around 64% of blocked entrepreneurs are companies without any employees, then probably those craftsmen who have found themselves in trouble are just as high-quality as they have at least one or more employees because in that craftsman and perhaps someone else. But I'm saying, the deputy minister will probably answer more clearly later, and then we'll be able to discuss it. But what's just surprising to me, because I'm sure and I'm going to say it out loud here, if someone did it from HDZ four or five years ago today would have been being investigated, would have been in Remetec if he'd done the same thing. I say it openly here because that debt was known before, however, no one simply did not dare do certain things in view of some of the qualifications that have been done. Because look, what's the reason for the tax debt? If someone didn't pay the value added tax, and he charged all his bills, then there's no reason why he wouldn't pay that value added tax. So he's from whoever he did the favor, charged that VAT, and those money came to the company. It's practically not his money, it's just a transmission between him. He's the one who charged that tax to the state. If the unpaid contributions are then it is necessary to see if he has paid the wages and what has happened. So not all tax debts can be viewed equally and not all have the exact same criteria. And secondly, I repeat it in this House and I will repeat it over and over again. One of the reasons for the introduction of the OIB was to resolve some chain companies where one company, a debt to the creditors, a debt to the state was made and then another company was opened, and thus goes on forever. There is simply the same thing that needs to be done to see if there is a link between some companies that are currently very active and normally functioning and working practically with the same basic assets that these taxpayers used to work in. So, and that's one of the reasons why under this law we're quite careful when we talk about him. And the other thing, when I said what would have happened to us from HDZ, I, when I became a minister, then in the 2005 draft budget in the Budgetary Act, suggested that tax debt could be paid in 10 wars, with a fine rate of interest being paid in those wars. My colleagues and colleagues, look at the phonogram of the debate, and you'll see which charges came from the left then. That's why I said what would have happened if one of us had suggested it. So, and then there were those who, for this reason or that reason, came into trouble, couldn't pay the tax debt. Clearly, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget has given specific conditions the opportunity for the Director of the Tax Administration to make a decision for someone to pay a flat-rate payment so that they can pay the tax in 10 wars, with the amount of the interest they made at that time of 15 or 18%. Then it was blasphemous. That wasn't good back then. But today this is very good and this is genius. What we should also see when it comes to tax write-offs, which is how much is the property of those to whom the tax debt is written off. Because look, if someone made a few million tax debts, if they charged all their invoices, so according to the creditors, if they charged everything, then the question is, where did these money go? It is necessary to see how much his private property is and no matter why the company and private property are not connected, but certainly if someone has made a million-dollar debt he has and a significant asset so I see no reason why someone would acquire private property, someone would sell their property to settle tax debt because you have a lot of cases where many entrepreneurs have sold their property, cottages, boats, houses, lend to their companies and in such a way resolve tax debt so that they can report to public competitions and participate in economic processes in the Republic of Croatia. Because you know that not a single public tender that's being investigated by state-owned companies and the state can you answer if you have a tax debt. So these are all the facts that we live in, and then we need to see if we're fair to those who have used all the means to do orderly, regular business, to protect their company and what's most important to protect the company's employees. Because if you have a master, you'll do everything you can to keep him, because tomorrow, when your job starts, the company is worth nothing to you if you lost those masters you had at the firm. So these are facts and truths. And in the end, it turns out that we're going to reward those 64% who owed a total of about 63% of the total funds blocked are their assets. They're companies without a single employee. The next 27, 28% of companies are from 1 to 5 employees, and the average employees in these 27% of companies are 1.5% and they make up a total of 93 or 94 blocked funds according to the FINA data. So that's it. Now, when we talk about reducing liquidity by 4 or 5 billion, that indifference is not reduced, it is only administratively overwritten and reduced by the basis of these three laws that are passed here in the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issue that needs to be regulated by law, and the consequences that this law will have. So the indifference has fallen administratively and I say eventually there will be someone who won't get his money again. Definitely the state will be part of it, and it will also be a large part of the entrepreneurs. This law itself is basically very simple. He defines who can access a settlement with the Ministry of Finance and the programme. It also defines what the time limit is and is talked about the interest rate. But very interesting if the interest rate is as some say 4.5% then the interest rate will be cheaper than the interest rate at which the state is currently in debt. Because these last bonds the state issued on the domestic market if I'm not mistaken, the interest rate is 5.8%. It is known that vaults are the lowest interest rate and that is precisely why. So, another law that is passed that has said this principle of injustice, because it does not define those who are in trouble and who have really come into trouble because of the economic and financial crisis that has prevailed in the world, but has taken everything in the package and will thus try to resolve the liquidity in the Republic of Croatia administratively. It's the same story about a pre-fashion deal. Look what's going on today. Today if someone won't pay someone just say sign me up, sign up for a pre-demand settlement and unfortunately again a non-payment chain appears in the Republic of Croatia. And there's just one more thing I want to say, the tight interest has always been and there's gonna be a penalty interest, it's for those who don't meet their obligations on time, and it's always been higher than some kind of bank interest because if that interest rate is lower than that interest rate, then it's easier for you not to pay the state tax because practically the state is credited in that way, and not that you have to go through all the troubles with business banks to get to credit. So, a law that, due to its ambiguity and indetermination that it really wants to help, is that they are entrepreneurs who are going to be some kind of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow. The HDZ Club cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46587	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have a signed replica. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46588	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In your discussion, you said that this law solves early tax bookkeeping cancer without solving liquidity. Look, through these two tools, so the Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement Act and this current Reprogramme Act will settle about half of the debts recorded. Unfortunately, the other half will not be able to charge, the state and the creditors will remain short sleeves. So that other part of the economy will go bankrupt and be liquidated. I'm sorry that here you are now claiming that the HDZ government has not dared make this move that is now being done by the current government because you were afraid it would be declared a crime. So, I assure you that this was actually a crime of yours. So it was a crime of inaction. You have, by not taking certain measures, led to the fact that indifference has spread explosively. So, in that one vicious circle, those good businessmen were involved. Today they're bad, and they don't have money to pay. So I'm going to illustrate this to you in a very specific example of life. The other day, an entrepreneur told me that he had to catch up on a compensation chain to settle his debt for a $2,500 waste. Isn't it scary, he had to cover eight entrepreneurs in that chain in order to buy 2500 kuna and settle his debt to waste. So, indeed, in Croatia we have a culture of non-payments that seemed to be so for 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46589	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46590	Look, colleagues, Jelash, I'm not gonna use hard words, but it's an SDP property when there's no arguments. You see my memory still serves well, and I remember the Law on outstanding outstanding claims from March 2002 and then it was valid until March 2003 and it was extended. Also, 22 billion unpaid were said at the time, the effect of this was not even a billion kuna, and the IRS was overcrowded with the work, I say the end effect was as it was. When I talked about what would have happened to someone I just said, and you can read that in a phonogram of discussion in the draft budget for 2005 and 2006, how your colleagues from your club and the current minister discussed when I put the possibility into law, I think as a minister of the time and the ministry and the government suggested, so the possibility of paying off the debt for 10 wars. So it was blasphemous, a disaster, it's going to rise like this, anyway, and now you're telling me about it being a crime of inaction. So we did some things, but you were against it. But the thing is that everything you do is wonderful and wonderful, and all that someone else tries to do is not good. But what's the biggest problem of all this together is your delusion that you've reduced indifference. You can't reduce liquidity with even a small amount of money in that money circle. You can't cut something. You simply want to cut something down, then you need to pump up the extra amount of money you're going to pay off your liabilities with. You've done something administratively wrong. So, you cut 4 or 5 billion kuna out of tax debt because you achieved a reprogramme. If the money is charged tomorrow, it won't be charged from one last period, it'll be charged from a future period. However, the question arises how in a situation where profits are getting smaller and smaller that someone in future businesses will be able to settle what he did not pay in previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46591	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, the respected Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46592	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, just for a moment, I'd like to ask Mr. Shucker a few questions. Well, just in my opening presentation, I didn't just mention two reprogrammes that created the current government, but also a reprogramme that was made for your governments. So, in 2011. I even said the numbers. So it's not like I'm standing in your defense, but it means the reprogramme has been before, and I'm not saying that it's the same reprogramme that's actually recognition of where the economic problems have been. So in this part where you say you don't want to support him that way because someone who had a tied company is or isn't, so it's identical to that reprogramme that you brought in 2011. So if he wasn't there then or now, then that's not why he's the same in that part. When you said it was 4.5%, I don't know if you were, I wasn't talking about 4.5% interest here, but I was talking about a minimum interest of 6.5%. It is an interest which is actually a risk premium for what I have told you plus an increased margin under EU directives, i.e. according to the Commission that will be amended. Because this definition that we have here, unfortunately, cannot pass so that the minimum interest is 6.5%. So, not 4.5%. Furthermore, about this part where writing is principal and interest, unfortunately we can't, before it was possible that one-time interest could be made, but here we got the commission to support it and in this part of the reprogramme can go principal and interest. It can't just be, that's why it's a total debt. So we can't separate interest even though in the past parts of the reprogramme we've put it now, unfortunately, we can't because of the commission that would have written off the interest we thought was supportive, so we consulted them. And you're right this part is total debt along with capital and interest. Furthermore, the truth is that in this part of the liquidity is that 64% without employees, but let's say every month I analyze these companies and it's mostly construction projects. And these are big problems, and that's one part that we have here and this month when we considered them because we've been following them, they've come in to tell us not to tell two young guys with a dozen companies that we've seen later are blocked by two big real estate businesses and they're just this month instead of reducing our further liquidity by increasing the liquidity of billions of kunas. So most of what you mentioned there is one part of the company that doesn't operate but a large part of the company is real estate business. And that's where we have to find a joint warrant, which is why we told them this part of the reprogramme won't certainly help because they're this whole business if you can't sell reactivate the real estate if it's over and that's why we're trying to find it together with the banks model in these companies that don't have employees, they're generating great indifference, in which way we unfreeze these properties because it's only about real estate business. So when we're talking about administrative... just erasing isn't just an administrative erasing measure because if we get that real estate business back that's now blocked, we're actually putting those properties into operation, tomorrow it's going to be used, it's going to be paid taxes on them, sales taxes. So it's not just about administrative, it's about a lot of real estate business. And what you mentioned certainly, and that I personally said that the OIB system is an excellent thing where you see if the company is being multipled and if you noticed in my presentation in the Pre-departure Deal Act I told you that over a billion kuna we suspended the pre-demand settlement procedure because they existed let's say that let's say that we see if there was a breakthrough, what through the OIB can he connect with them we suspended that procedure. So we're using the OIB anyway, and we couldn't if the OIB couldn't make that connection, so that, when we approve this reprogramme and in pre-fashion, they control exactly whether they existed or not. Circular fraud because we don't want to reprogram those who tried through these circular frauds tomorrow, not only to fool the state, but also other believers. So that part is controlled and that it certainly significantly helped to use the OIB system in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46593	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46594	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, my part of the debate was in a certain way to provoke you to say what you said so that my colleague Jelash could see that there was no crime of inaction. Because you can laugh at your coworker as much as you want, but there are certain tools that have been made for the government to be able to do this job today. Among other things, it's the OIB. And when you get to know the OIB technique, then you won't laugh at all. It is clear, then, that after the payment of the 10th war that was in the Budgetary Law when the economic crisis exploded, the Reprogramme Act was adopted in 2011. So it's just so public that nothing started in 2011 but that someone's done some things before. But when it comes to debt write-off, then people who deal with finance cannot possibly agree to be those in the same basket who struggle to feed themselves and their family and employees and those who mix. But unfortunately, there are a lot of butchers among these non-payers, and there's no forgiveness for them. And it's not true that by activating the real estate these money will go back. No, it's an obligation for that period before, and these taxes that will come through the activation of real estate are taxes that would thus not have been paid by the economic crisis in future times. That's why I say it's unacceptable that it's not a division of the type of tax debt and the other thing I'm glad about, and that's what we said when it was the first law when the interest was being written off to write off the interest is the support and that the question is what will be the treatment regarding Brussels. And the logical thing to do from 1.7. Croatia can no longer play as it thinks on home court, but we must obey the rules that are ours. And I repeat, not 1/10 million states have paid claims to bankruptcy workers, just one more sentence, please, for those who have opened a new firm and have left workers in an old company where there was nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46595	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46596	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, representative and representative. After these two very interesting discussions I would say one without being angry with such rigid taxpayers and these others full of optimism I would also say without any insult from the HDSSB club very simply therefore as regards this law on the collection of tax debt caused by the economic crisis in this proposal as it is written will support. Now, such indifference as it is from 45 to 39, or perhaps 37 billion kuna, which has been reduced and the issue of the situation at all, and indifference to the overall economic crisis in which the Republic of Croatia is located, whether this indifference is due to the economic crisis, or whether this indifference is one wheel, one gear in the mechanism of deepening that economic crisis. And now depending on what position anyone looks at that notion of indifference in that way, it also perceives possible solutions. If we're going to look at this hard tax, I'd say whoever's in debt has no forgiveness, no reprogramme, possibly but entirely with tight interest and interest and that's where it ends, and that's where we end up. And then we have whether, in a series of situations, so people who were irresponsible in business and whose debt of 100 is something today is 1500 something. And neither the 100, nor the 1500, we're all aware we'll never be returned, but we'll carry on, with the tight interest on debt going on. And so in fact constantly, constantly that chain closed the chain of debt growth especially for contributions and for unpaid VAT actually keep increasing. That's why as a club, we supported that first reprogramme that we otherwise liked a lot more regardless of what he wasn't just. But that program that went after the interest write-off was really encouraging for those who were obliged to enter that reprogramme. And it was the only way to actually get out of them, get out all those efforts or all those resources that... Had to get into that reprogramme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This reprogramme model is almost certain to win with very small results. Because this model of the reprogramme means it includes the reprogramme and the mains and interest and as a loan interest on that loan which is reprogrammed. It is quite certain that this model of reprogramme will receive very, very low results and a very, very weak response from entrepreneurs. Because all those who could, who were in position, actually responded to what, that previous model that was actually favourable to them. And in some ways for those who could have opened up the space to survive at all and to engage further in economic life. Everyone is aware of that, and that no matter what side it was said that 15 or 20 billion of that total indifference was completely lost money. It's not the money that exists, it's the money that existed, however, that's spilled over whether it's not paid or not. Who was first poured out to those who excluded him, then into their private property, then into their accounts, partly into their consumption. And that money more, it's got it but it's no longer available, so it's not even available to the tax administration. It would hardly be available to the U.S. tax administration, and I highly doubt that it is more accessible to the Croatian tax administration in the way it works. And in case the tax administration shows better efficiency as it has shown recently, then Croatian courts come to the scene, which show their own, as I would say, their long-term overall ineffectiveness and then actually more or less almost happens so nothing happens. Of course, you shouldn't be pessimistic. We have to go somewhere in a circle. And now it's not this call for inaction. Because just to draw attention to what we actually, whenever we're about money, we can actually end up in a problem of not working out a judicial authority that finally today and even during this government has not actually sent a clear message in any case, so I'm going to say that again, that's what I was saying, that stealing isn't worth it. Tax administration says no steal, issue bills, play prize games. Even the financial authorities say, "Be honest, pay the bills." But the court notices and some jurisprudence as well as in previous years, we have not yet experienced that it has really been demonstrated that someone who has mixed up in this country, someone who has stolen from this country, someone who has acquired billions in this chain of tax indifference, one of those 250 millionaires in Croatia, of whom some have certainly become millionaires at the expense of these 37 billion kunas that one of them has finally been sanctioned. That's the message we haven't experienced yet. They also mentioned phantom companies. And that phantoms still exist. The phantoms are still alive, the phantoms haven't stopped, the phantoms are still there among us. And these phantom companies are still functioning, and that system isn't over. That system is still active. And we haven't found the mechanisms to get that system to work. Still, the 10th company in a row, and you have a chain of companies that are non-equivocal and with the 10th company you get everything you need again to report neatly to a public tender, get jobs in a public competition. And you're a taxpayer in those last nine. And that chain didn't end. I don't know how to do it, but that chain wasn't put in, it wasn't put under surveillance. It was also mentioned, I would say, she was either unhappy or this unfortunate health recovery the Ministry of Finance has now spent through borrowing. I don't think you at the Ministry of Finance were at all aware of what you were raising money for, what you paid for and what you actually did, what you spilled into blanks and where those few billion traveled. I think it would be good, that it would be good if the problems of a resistor were dealt with by that single resistor and not that the measurements would be lower in some times without actually knowing why we're doing them. That we don't know why we're reducing one contribution and then at the end of the year, we're running out of billions in one system. To think that this system has internal savings reserves that it doesn't have at all, that we think that this system can remain the same as it is today and cannot remain at all, it must gradually change, and that we think that the state is ultimately owned by just those institutions that are the biggest generator of that debt will be a better owner of all those institutions that are smaller debtors, which the state has now taken over or as a state will better manage them. I think that, in this respect of the misunderstanding between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, there was a completely rassom that would cost Croatian citizens very expensive and bring nothing to the Croatian state. But to get back to the end on this bill. I'm sorry, you've explained that you couldn't actually go in this circle write-off and interest, no matter what it is unfair, that life is unfair, many things are unfair, and even in the end legalising this illegality of built objects and... in some way unfair to those who built but bring results and certainly would have one kind of write-off that would have brought a much more significant result as the previous ones would have brought this write-off. I'd also invite you, I don't know if there's any space, so at least if you're already going into the reprogramme, not to mention the interest of those who are going into the reprogramme, not because I would now protect or care about anyone, but simply because of the reality that such a program simply won't enter any of us, then that it will enter a truly negligible number of entrepreneurs, or that it will actually result in a truly negligible result. But here's the thing about us and this as one measure that unfortunately won't contribute much, but as one measure that might help a little bit more to maybe preserve which job, the HDSB club will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46597	Thank you very much. A replica of respected Vice President Milorad Batinic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46598	Thank you very much, President. Namely, my colleague Djurovic is glad that you supported this bill because it is good. However, I cannot agree with the part of your debate when you mentioned that certain proceedings end in the judicial power and I think I will quote well: both at the end and for the term of office of this Government, the judicial authority is slow, ineffective. So perhaps just to remind ourselves, the government's trio is in Croatia: judicial, legislative and executive. Did you or perhaps I misread it, I hope you know that the government has no influence on the rule of law. In that context, it's my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46599	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46600	Yes, yes, I know the government has no influence on the judicial authority, but it has an impact on the creation, operation and efficiency of the judicial system. That's what I meant, I didn't mean the concrete verdicts of course, it's the trio of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46601	Okay. Next replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46602	President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague here, I have written down what you said in your presentation, you say the transfer from hollow to empty in terms of paying and resolving health care and the conflict of misunderstandings and rasomones between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. So, what's simple in terms of recovery and payment of debts to health care is that certain medical preparations and medicines bought, spent and were not paid by deadlines, I think it's been about 280 days and then I really don't understand the expression in terms of switching from hollow to blank. So what the Croatian Government has been doing to me on a continuous basis, this coalition is doing that what is being delivered as goods or services must be paid within 30 or 60 days, with the natural recovery of all commitments taken before being resolved because it is crucial for either liquidity or the functioning of the rule of law. Therefore, this mention of the hollow in the blank and you pay for something you bought and spent, can not be hollow but literally pay for the supplier of goods and already after a long, long deadlines that have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46603	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46604	So this was actually about the fact that the contribution to health care was reduced by 2% without any projection in which this system would be rationalized and then the Ministry of Health was still in the 2012 budget taken somewhere over a billion kuna and there was a total of billions that simply appeared as a lack of that system. So there was no plan in which there was actually this deficit which was clear that it would arise, and in previous years, with this budget there were about a billion, two. There was no plan or concept that this lack that it was quite clear was going to arise, that it would be resolved. And now that it's practically post-festum, and it's clear that at the moment of the health contribution cut, at the moment of the health ministry's budget reduction, we'll now post-festum we'll raise a loan and on the burden of taxpayers, with a debt of about 6% we'll actually additionally borrow the state for something that was entirely certain because that cost level existed before. So that's why I say that from hollow to empty. I mean, there's no measure to take without knowing the consequences of how we're going to adapt to them in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46605	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46606	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So the HNS Club will support the Bill on Tax Debt Payments caused by the economic crisis, and after some of my predecessors said, after one optimistic or pessimistic view of this law and one neutral with support, for example, with this support from the HNS Club, that law, in fact, little was debated about foreign entrepreneurial positions with a view to this law. So, of course politics has its views. Of course, any law is never ideal or perfect, but what is crucial is how much this law in implementation can bring the necessary effects, and they are related to the liquidity of the system. Of course, the good part is certain that this law that is announced by the Ministry of Finance as the last proposal for debt reprogramming has been announced and announced that after this there is no more debt reprogramming, that in fact there is going to be a good part of the absolute liquidation of all those companies that are unable to settle their obligations and clean up so-called. The company without employees, which is a good part of what the opposition colleague said, means accounting. But the whole goal of this is basically law and full tax reform, this is one part of it, that both accountingly and realistically, what is important is liquidity comes down to that reasonable, normal measure within 60 days, and that means that part will need to be cleared by liquidating and eradicating as a whole by accounting, and one part absolutely in that segment to pay tax debts. So, what I mentioned from the point of view of entrepreneurs to any entrepreneur whom this law assists in the tax debt reprogramme, and of course aid to all those who are in a positive intention of working on the market having a business risk, because the business risk is one of the basic elements of the enterprise has come to the opportunity to once again ensure that the company lives. So when we talk about three essentially reprogramming three tax laws that were for debt reprogramming and a number of 16559 reprogramming requests we know that in a pre-curricular settlement now about 4 and a half thousand, somewhere 21,000 companies are essentially in trouble with payments compared to the state, compared to the creditors. We know we have about 92000 legal entities for micro, small, medium, large entrepreneurs. So it's about 25% basically entrepreneurs who are in trouble. So, when we count according to the numbers and the fact that 25% of entrepreneurs are in trouble just because they came forward, and there are those who haven't reported at all, they're probably not going to answer, they're going to go into liquidation. The fact is that this is the move of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. by adopting a new Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of a new law of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, comes out to the entrepreneurs and gives them another space to breathe air, to be able to reprogram the country, to be their partner, because there is still a moment in which we are in business in the economy, at which they have not completed the pre-profit settlements. They are a good part of the time, especially the biggest ones, and the biggest ones were, in fact, both indifference and non-payment especially to cooperatives, suppliers, etc. And a lot of entrepreneurs actually reported and talked, and what we're going to do is we owe it to the state, we have to write down some of it, we might have some capitalization, we're indivisible, they'll pull us downhill. So, this law essentially ensures that the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ensures that all those who are in these pre-demand agreements are able not factors that have launched a pre-demand settlement, but that those in pre-demand settlements owe them, and that they must bend down, write down or the same part of the recapitalize that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance, thanks to this Parliament, if this law is passed, and I believe that it wants to ensure that they can ensure that what they have invested, what they have the right to collect, and must be written off that through the bar of the taxpayers' debt. And that's one of the key items, I'm not going to tell a story about this law, and it's this law that actually allows for another opportunity, but also an objective, realistic and necessary one, given the processes that are being dealt with with by pre-fashion settlements, the processes that are being solved through and this Financial Business Act that hasn't been fully effective with payments of 30 and 60 days. Therefore, the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a partner, offers the possibility to facilitate in that segment in which it can, of course, take care of the situation that this is not the case, the write-off of interest does not happen, in any event, that all this together is annulled in the European Commission due to the definition of support. And in that it is essentially the whole point of this law that ensures essentially entrepreneurs in times, in the sense of the Government of Croatia that there is not yet a time in which liquidity and financial operations in the right sense came to what we want, which means paying 30, 60 days with these pre-departure deals that have not been settled, to ensure that entrepreneurs are precisely in this one vicious circle and that part of the pre-chasing deals as creditors to provide them with a single space and that is one of those laws that we can really say that is absolutely in favour of entrepreneurs. Of course, they are always accepted and certain criticisms can be understood whether or not they are, whether or not this interest or that interest is involved. But here, my colleague Shucker made it clear that this is a simple law. And I'm just going to say on behalf of the HNS Club that these are basically the laws that we need, that they're clear, that they don't need a lot of explanations, that they're basically very functional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46607	Thank you very much. The replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46608	Yes, colleague Gjurkovic, this is a very simple law that there is no article 7. And Article 7 says nicely who can access this settlement. And then it's a very interesting provision to say the one who's been fine-tuning his duties since February 1st on this one. And now whoever knew this law would come into effect could have created a prerequisite, but there's something here that hurts common sense, and that's saying if someone paid dividends, shares in profits, etc. So you can imagine how conscious an entrepreneur is if you're paying off a dividend and it's still a tax debt. Not that he shouldn't be reprogrammed, but he should get double interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46609	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46610	Of course, in this simple description, that is to say, the restrictions on entrepreneurs who can participate in this prolonging or debt reprogramme, it is clear that those who have drawn money and who owe taxes are not the ones who should seek debt reprogrammes. Because first, you have to pay all your obligations to the state, which to the believers, and then I assume you're pulling out profits in a certain way safely and indifference by extracting profits and by not paying suppliers or not paying taxes to the state and if it's blocked by other creditors. Well, it's certainly one of the good conditions, because it ensures that only companies that have the possibility of further survival can come forward, and those who are blocked by other creditors have the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlements, so they need to settle with both their creditors and the state for their debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46611	Thank you very much. We are going to the debate of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46612	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed deputy with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's what my colleague Gjurkovic said. One brief and clear law. I definitely have a problem with my understanding today because I don't understand this law especially in article 7 of that law, which I'm going to say a little later on, but here's a few words in the introduction. When we pass laws like this, surely when each of us goes to read them, ask the same question. Is this law being passed because of the state, i.e. the settlement of tax debts in favour of the budget, or is it actually brought about by entrepreneurs, the economic situation in Croatia, the great indifference in which entrepreneurs and craftsmen came and so on? We heard from the deputy in his opening statement that the primary interest of the state is to save the company from collapse. And if that's what I'd say, bravo, I agree, great, we've finally started to think about entrepreneurship, we've finally started to think about models that will somehow help us make the economic situation better. But what we're doing is definitely that, and we've heard it in today's debates that we don't separate business entities. We should definitely separate those business entities that do not have employees, business entities that exist only on paper and somewhere in some registers and who during their business have achieved certain tax debts that remain open to those business entities that are on the market for a decade, two decades, who employ dozens of people, who each month in all these years also pay taxes and contributions to the state budget, but who because of such an economic situation and climate that is in Croatia are in trouble. The state must understand that her entrepreneurs are partners, and the first person to understand that is the IRS. Today we are also talking about interest, i.e. reference interest rates, and how much they will affect the percentage of interest the taxpayer will pay. What concerns me is a recent case in one of our Tax Administrations where it's outdated and because tax authorities haven't done jobs that were supposed to work in antiquity went into two business entities of 70 million kuna and in one business entity 80 million kuna. So in three business entities, the state lost more than 150 million kunas due to tax limitation because the IRS did not react. What is even more worrying is the fact that the head of this IRS continues to do its job neatly and that no one is responding to anyone, which is why we are 150 million shorter in the state budget. And now we're passing a law like this, which reads the following article, so I'd like to ask the deputy to explain it to me later. So we are passing this law now in the 7th month 2013 and the right to reprogramme has those business entities that have outstanding tax debt incurred by 31 January 20013. So it's kind of a gap of 5, 6 months that depends on which day we're looking at. Now, we say we're bringing this in because of taxpayers to make their business easier, we've put a limit to 31st of January 2013 until they can have a debt. Within 60 days of the adoption of this law, they may apply for a reprogramme, but their application will not be granted unless that taxpayer was a regular taxpayer after 31 January 2013. In my foolish thinking and conclusion, it would mean only one thing to me that all taxpayers had to know that in the seventh month, another reprogramme had to be adopted and that, regardless of their debt with 31.1. So it really doesn't make any sense to me. And just what I can conclude is this, then this reprogramme refers to some friends who already knew in advance in February that the possibility of a reprogramme would be brought in in the 7th month and that since February they had settled their obligations neatly. That's where you'd like an explanation. And the other thing I'm interested in is if it's blocked so it can't be reprogrammed by that taxpayer who's been blocked by other creditors. So if a taxpayer is working on the market, that means that he also has obligations according to the tax and contribution budget, but in order to achieve at all the obligation to pay any tax and contribution, he has to do something, so he has to do something. So whether it's manufacturing, whether it's providing a service, whether it's anything else. But in order to carry out his basic activity, it's normal for him to do business with some kind of a believer. And if we're already talking about those business entities that have come up with a problem because of the economic crisis, then it's to believe that one part of the inability to pay tax liabilities and contributions is precisely because they have some kind of debt to some kind of believer. Now if we're going to interpret it then it turns out that it's only about one thing, so I'm going to give you a reprogramme if you've had to settle all your obligations to all your creditors, but here's the case for the state that you're still in debt, and now we're going to reprogramme, and that's if you've been an orderly payer since February. How could someone be a neat payer if they asked the state for a reprogramme for some kind of debt? It's really not clear to me, and that's where you'd ask for an explanation. And what I will certainly mention once again as so many times as we have brought here is the third reprogramme on the trail of helping business entities, but what I really think we should and should learn that we should understand the state must become a business partner or be a partner to all the entrepreneurs who do, and who contribute to this kind of strengthening of the economy in the Republic, and not that certain legal entities are being punished with millions of amounts in some tax control that no one will receive, wants to receive, to beg to be heard in order to see what could be done and how it could be done. And I think if we were able to solve one part of our own mental circuit to realize that not all taxpayers are thieves, that not all craftsmen are the ones who steal and cheat the state, that this fiscal register is not necessary everywhere except that we have to put order into our finances because that's the only way we can, I think that the situation with regard to entrepreneurship, that the situation with regard to the collection of the tax debt and that it would be very different for the simple reason that we would feel like partners, knew that we could talk, knew that we were being heard, and that it could then be spot-free to react. And once again, all taxpayers are not the same, there's quite a difference. We must learn to distinguish not only micro-macro and medium-sized entrepreneurs with regard to the income achieved, given the number of employees but also we must take into account other criteria, which is the long-term presence on our market, the years that a particular entrepreneur does in a particular business, all that he has contributed to that country and to all of us in his many years of work together, and in this way we must start to function because if we do not do so then for nothing these reprogrammes. If we said today this is the third and last one because we said that the last one was going to be fixed and no taxpayer will because we told him you would no longer be able to get into some reprogramme to improve your business so that he would pay those obligations because he knows that there is no more possibility of entering the reprogramme. So these are all the things we have to do, we finally have to start thinking about them, and we have to start punishing people who are in the IRS because now, in short, we have a situation where we're struggling with fiscal cash registers in markets where we justify some kind of security, and in parallel, we write off 150 million kunas due to an age in a IRS. And that's just by chance something that came out of the paper, something that we could read, something that we know, and the question is, how many more of these items, or such tax debts, have gone into obsolescence and how many of them have not been talked about. The reprogramme is good but in this way generalising all basic entities by not classifying them by some weight of long term, according to what taxpayers are, whether good, bad or medium have been in their business, putting them in the same basket of companies that have not had any employees, who have not been functioning in the market for years, but are there with some debt that the state wants, must and should be charged with those who do business neatly and still try to contribute is certainly not good. And I think that we should finally do some kind of analysis with such analyses and not talk about thousands of business entities and we don't see any difference in these thousands of business entities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46613	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Damir Cain came in first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46614	... with almost every word that's been said here. [[Specially enabled.]] All employers aren't thieves, they're all just not the same. I claim that 90% of these small employers may be in a more difficult position than the workers who work with them. And I also agree that this law, the legislative proposal, cannot be the last in line. The logic of this Law when it is threatened to be a law in a series is how to extract that last lip from those entrepreneurs who are debtors to the tax administration. Such laws, I'd say, must be passed and in the future, or the question is, what's simply going to happen. I agree also to take 31. 1. 2013 must stretch to today. We are talking about this article 7. Otherwise, what happens? Otherwise, almost no one will be reprogrammed. Or almost no one, and the purpose of the Law will not be fulfilled as such. Well, if you're 31. 1. In 2013 you did business neatly, so that means you didn't have any big problems until 31. 1. 2013 And yet there will be problems. And those future ones, we have to do the same through some laws, just to protect them. And finally let everyone realize that the state is giving nothing. The state gives another chance that's important. How to collect your debts that are failing her. How the state gives if it charges 12% interest. Well, where do you have it, it's a tight interest. Well, it's not a game and they have to understand people in the Ministry of Finance. If someone takes a 12% interest, then they don't give but almost destroys a company that pays that 12%. And that's why I'm appealing to that 6.5% interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46615	Thank you. Here's the answer, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain, I was very pleased when you said you agreed, I, otherwise we rarely agree... Well, nobody asks the state to give, it's not the state to give, but the state is there to be one mechanism but one mechanism that will be fair to everyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This passing of the Law with 31.1. And this whole story still doesn't make us all equal. She can ask herself why it's 31. 1st why it's not 28. 2nd? Why isn't it 31? Three? If we're already in the reprogramme, if, as is the assistant, the deputy said that every month they follow as much as they do, so thanks to the OIBs, etc. Then this means that every month the Ministry of Finance has a balance on how many of them got into trouble, how many of them failed to pay their salaries or contributions. And that just means that every three months the Ministry of Finance can make it very simple and easy to run an analysis of what has happened to us in the last three months and ask for a reason why this has happened to us. What is very important is whether entrepreneurs become an exclusive problem does not pay and whether indifference is exclusively related to the economic situation. Or becomes someone doesn't pay for some other stuff. That's why I'm appealing to individual access, to access to my partner. We need to understand that we also need to give the entrepreneur information that he is a partner of the tax administration and that the tax administration is ready to communicate with him, talk to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46617	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, look at this article 7 would be good and credible if you had one other provision because it says here in paragraph 3. subparagraph 3 if it was blocked by other creditors. And what if he's a tax debt problem and the blockade came from other creditors because someone didn't pay him. So it can't reprogram the debt. Because if on the one hand we're setting up that someone can't access this process, then they can't get a positive solution because it's being blocked by some kind of a believer of his. And what if he got into that trouble because someone didn't pay him? We must, then, set up Mr. Deputy Minister some kind of principle of justice. And that's why I said in the debate, that neither debt is the same. Each debt has its own diversity and cannot be generally, this article 7 best shows how unequal we look at someone. So someone didn't pay me for it. That's why I didn't pay the state and my suppliers and I can't access the program. And I didn't block someone and they'd be able to access the reprogramme because they knew this law would be passed and then ten days ago he'd paid taxes for the past six months. I mean, I'm saying, I'm banalizing things, but unfortunately that's how it can happen when you have such an imprecise provision when you haven't defined who this law applies to. I repeat, if someone has paid the dividend or the share of the profit is not to be debated at all, he needs a still-cut criminal tax if he has not settled all obligations to the state and if he has remained in debt to someone else. But that's why there are 64% without any employees, and that's what they are. a project of a company which unfortunately many in this country have turned black.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46619	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46620	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Shuker, yes, we agree that there's a very, very large space opening up there, and here's only one article that we can see that we're not all in an equal position which is not good. It's not good because if we want to do something, we have to have this kind of legal certainty, and at all times we need to know what we do, what our obligations are, but also what our rights are in relation to all other business entities operating on that same market. We're talking about creditors here now. I'll take this opportunity and ask another question. What about when the state takes advantage of an article I think 135. The general tax law, where it goes to tax supervision of a business entity, thus to a 20-year-old person on the Croatian market, is blocking the return of the tax return of a millions-and- 2 million-dollar tax burden because the exporting business entity, on the grounds that they suspect that he will not pay the fine that comes out of that tax control. And here we are talking about the reprogramme, the economy to keep jobs and keep a little bit of that economy and the crafts we have. That's why every case is for itself. Therefore, we need to distinguish between business entities who is who and who has done what so far. And they're not in the IRS to say why they don't know who they're dealing with. After all, you said yourself we know what the OIB is, we can look at some chronology, we can look at who was some kind of payer or defaulter and who was doing what in the state and how much he paid or didn't pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46621	Thank you. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46622	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Members, so in your debate that has covered a lot, you're saying, among other things, that this is a simple law, and you're looking for an individual approach, that is, a selective approach. This is one of the best laws that we had in the Croatian Parliament, because it has no doubt at all, and it includes a wide range of entrepreneurs with normal restrictions that are quite clear that if someone was pulling money for profit and did not pay taxes they can not ask to be reprogrammed. And secondly, if it's blocked, then it's being directed, but it doesn't say it, but I guess that's logical, to the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement which he's actually not able to do at all, not just service his obligations but is in a situation that he has to go into a pre-departure settlement. Therefore, the simplicity of this law is, in my opinion, an indication of how the future proposal should work so that it leaves no doubt and that we do not expect any new guidance that the Ministry could possibly, on such a matter, on the law and interpretation of the sea.... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46623	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46624	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, I didn't say it was a simple law, you said the law was simple, and I said I was stupid and I didn't understand that simplicity, so let's be clear, and that's why I asked for this article to be explained to me. You're talking about blocking the credentials, but there's a problem. If we're talking about a reprogramme going into someone who had a debt at 31.3. And now at 7 or 8 or 9 months, I want to go into the reprogramme, and I have a blocked account from my credentials that blocked me when, at 5 months, at 6. maybe. I can't get into the program. So these are the things that aren't told to the end as simple as that law seemed to you. And finally, from the great story of how good the law is, and we need it because we need it, we need it because of the entrepreneurs, we're going to get into a situation that very few of them who are now in trouble are actually going to be able to take advantage of that reprogramme. And then what we did, nothing. The confusion, the further disappointment, the extra aversion to the IRS and to the state and everything that's going to be done because it's done in a way that everything is good and beautiful and then we get on the ground and we realize that there's nothing we can do on the ground because we don't know what we said we should and how to do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46625	Thank you very much. And finally, finally on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your debate about the law. Yes, here is the majority who discuss these cases, discuss individual cases and probably ask each taxpayer that everyone has a view of the handling of part of the IRS. I can listen to and advise anyone here, but what you ask me to do and if you ask me to do and I never want to do outside the law or legal acts. So no matter what problems you may encounter, you will always be able to get support and advice, but for individual solutions to specific cases there are institutions in which they are solved and if, in this case, Mrs Tyrelli, most likely, was also spoken of as a tax stalemate. There are certainly always applications and responses and the State's Attorney's Office and all those who are, in fact, if in a certain part of the law has been broken and there has been a certain statute of limitations for such knowledge, you know, I'm always there to inform myself, and for institutions to act and act in that part, those who actually need to respond to that order will have to respond. When we're talking about why a certain date is 31.1., why not 28.2. why I have to point out that in this year and a half, this is the third reprogramme. So anyone who could have done it in the ongoing execution of obligations is. However, when and when we finally talk to entrepreneurs whom the crowd and receive at the Ministry of Finance turns out to have only a problem with the IRS every time. But when we open a wider story, it's not just a tax administration move, because it's a short-term solution. Then the problem of not paying the suppliers, paying or not paying the banks they mostly have is saying and we have to pay the banks, otherwise the banks take the real estate, and the IRS or other suppliers if they come to order. So in a lot of conversations with entrepreneurs and such, there was debate. But we're just saying that the Financial Business Act and the pre-bank settlement are the key to the law that the company is properly restructured. Whether this tax debt reprogramme will solve the problems will not, because it does not solve the total debt, because it only gives a break from which let's say, a short-term break if you have tax problems. But in the end, it is in most companies, and not to say impossible today at this time of the liquidity problem of high credit default in banks, in suppliers. It's impossible that they're just a problem with the state. So, the problem is the entire system of indifference, the whole system. And that's why it's best all the time and we focus our entrepreneurs on the Financial Business Act. Because it's the real restructuring of that company when the bank also write off his tight interest, when suppliers also write him 30% or 40% off. And then it's in that part. Most of them fell into a trap not to tell tax debt reprogrammes where they only got three, four, five months and then again after five months they couldn't fulfil their tax obligations. They couldn't. It's just the truth. So the whole restructuring of the company is the right way. This is another tool where entrepreneurs have, let's say, had fear of this pre-fashion deal. Why? Because it was a newspaper. They didn't know how this law would work in the first place, in which the element, how it would come out at all, whether it would work out, were in fear because the law went bankrupt. But now we have very good, not to say excellent solutions where we have a very large number of companies that have come up with positive solutions and more and more companies are coming in just because of that. And that's why the honest resolution of the reprogramme is just not to say drop in the sea. The right way to restructure the company is pre-fashional, where you can, and in this, in the Financial Business and Pre-banking Act, you can also get this part of the postponement and reprogramme of that debt and adjust it to you in that part of the cash flow as it is here. Here's what matters when we're talking about interest rates. Unfortunately, I told you this was simply an interest rate will move between those 6% and 12, but it is simply by EU directives not to be declared support, it is said. So you can't vote that as support, and that's why our intensity wasn't to charge 12%. And we know no one can get that 12% back. But if we said it could be some kind of collateral, it could be 6% in that part. So we don't have the legal and technical opportunities to say that it's either gonna be unambiguous or it's gonna be less. But I agree that today's interest rate of 12% can certainly be difficult to pay back, hardly anyone can return. I agree with you anyway. But I'm telling you again, we haven't had a chance here, because it's considered if it's below that support. And also, whether the believer will unblock. Nothing means a tax debt reprogramme to him if the bank still doesn't want to lift that blockade, it doesn't mean anything to him. But that's why we're talking about if he enters a pre-demand settlement and if there's a blockage on the company to sign up to the firm in a pre-demand settlement, the blockade has to be lifted, and then, together with the banks, he's negotiating and the IRS to negotiate to see what that cash flow is in the future that he can keep the company. And that's why we say financial business, although perhaps in that very name it seemed... A lot of people threw away what would happen if it didn't work out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it has been shown that large companies have succeeded and this is an incentive to restructure the company in this way. This is one of the instruments but it's not a rescue, it's not going to give, we know it's not going to give big results, but we also wanted in that part that didn't appear in the pre-determined settlement to give him another one through this program because he's just afraid of the outcome of his reprogramme. But unfortunately, and that's why in this part was the first reprogramme and the second reprogramme and pre-departure settlement, and that's why we put it that he somehow carried out his obligations in this year because they were able to come to the IRS every time or through FINA to reprogram that tax debt. They could've done it with 22, 28.2 and 31.3 and last year. They can come every day if they have trouble reprogramming it, but they must meet the legal requirements that this part of the debt is a burden for them not to be able to execute it at all times. So here, thank you for your discussion. I believe, I know you won't satisfy my answer to your question, but treating certain parts of the IRS tell you all the applications I get I'll listen to you every time, receive you but I can't get in and I don't just want to work second-degree or other institutions. There are in this part of the institution and everyone should bear their share of responsibility if they have made a mistake in that part we must, but then we must work on other instruments and maybe change something in the system if we see that some taxpayer is damaged, that we are giving him some other mechanisms that he has done and caused that he can thus protect his business, means through the instruments of the legislative authority. And if you have these suggestions, we can always talk about that part. Here's another thank you, and I hope you will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46627	Thank you, Deputy Minister, we have two replicas. Branko Vuksic came in first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46628	Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Mr. Lalovac. They say that business in neoliberal capitalism has long been ruled out by ethics and morality. He says money doesn't know morality, money doesn't know ethics, and society without ethics and society without morality is exactly like us. We're the exemplar for that. Now the question is as well as when we talked about the legalization of illegally built objects, we said it was both a legal and ethical issue. So this is both a legal and an ethical question. Let's say what about those who sold their assets to settle all their debts, so they could pay taxes, so they could damage their creditors because they stuck to ethics, morality, they paid. Many paid dividends, didn't pay government taxes. Yes or gone into obsolescence. [[I went into obsolescence.]] So this is a deep question, this isn't a question of a line of this. But since we've become unethical and immoral society, it's very difficult for you now to draw a line and correct everything we've done wrong in all 23 years. So I don't think this tax debt bill will save anything in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46629	Thank you. And another replica, Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46630	I absolutely agree with everyone here in this Chamber that this law should be supported, this law is life and I am 100% in favour. But it can't be over here. After this law, some future law will have to come. Someone mentioned some five-month deadlines. So people in despair take these loans for five months to settle their obligations, and in advance they know they won't do anything in five months. It'll be ruined in 12 or 24 months. They'd better shut down today, but they're so honest they just want to leave clean accounts behind. You asked if we knew sinners? For example, if someone works one rotor in Pula six, seven, I don't know how many months longer than the deadline so no one can work and all those little shops and those small companies are ruined. What do you want to do? Who do you want to sue? Croatian roads? That I don't know the city, that they're suing the state, that they're suing the president of the state? What's he just gonna do? Yeah, he'll say it one more time. This law should also be supported because these deadlines or payment of those loans if I am not mistaken can be serviced for 30 months or 36, excuse me for three years. That's right. But where's the problem? The problem is that the interest is between 6% and 12%, so let's say in Europe that it just doesn't choke us. So where in Europe do they pay 12% interest? Well, that's no interest in any business bank in the Republic of Croatia, which is all held by the party at 12%. I'll tell the law again is good, let's help the companies, but we have to understand the same thing. Small business entities aren't big, they're big in a very different situation and let's keep in mind that this country is being held by small business entities not only large.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46631	Thank you. There's no answer. Thank you. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his cooperation. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46632	Final draft tax debt bill caused by the economic crisis, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 438, the debate on the text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes for and 1 vote against and 39 abstentions, have adopted the government's proposal to decide and discuss amendments. I would like the representative of the proposed Deputy Minister of Finance, Boris Lalovec, to explain the amendments. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment No 1 of Article 5 is amended as follows: the reprogrammed principal of the tax debt under Article 4 of this Act will be subject to the basic reference rate increased by the margin for the risk of individual entrepreneurs under the State aid rules contained in the Commission’s statement on the revision of the method of determining reference and discount rates. In the event of a risk margin being determined for an individual entrepreneur in accordance with the Commission’s statement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the rating category shall be considered as a bad-financial difficulty, and the level of credit insurance may be high, normal and low depending on the instrument offered. So this amendment was, in fact, in the course of the debate, already in my opening statement that there would be an amendment and where this part is aligned with the single calculations on the European market where the reference interest rate of the Republic of Croatia was so far in the law at 364 days plus increased by the margin. Since we are on the market of the European Union, we are applying uniform rules and therefore this amendment. I'm saying, he's already been discussed in the opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46634	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 1 to the vote. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour and 40 abstentions, have adopted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46635	Amendment number two actually refers to the same thing as Amendment number one, and it's about the collateral. It would now read as follows: Article 6(2) adds the new paragraphs 3 and 4 which reads: in order to exercise the right to a more favourable interest rate on the reprogrammed principal of the tax debt according to this law, the entrepreneur is obliged to attach an appropriate payment insurance instrument in the application. Tax debt insurance instruments shall be considered to be an irrevocable guarantee of a bank, a property claim, a Bianco debtor signed by a creditor and a guarantee of another person whose property corresponds to a tax debt. So the interest rate can be more favourable than the one that is currently, actually if you attach a particular payment insurance instrument. So so far, let's say it's unique, and this way when you have some kind of collateral interest rate can be lower than it is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46636	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46637	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Apparently, with one change, the government technically opens up a large discretionary right for someone to decide who and at what rate to pay the debt. The logical thing is if someone has not fulfilled the tax obligations that he is in constant financial problems and it is very likely that this very difficult one can give collateral to get a lower interest rate as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, this opens up the possibility for major malversions that when you have that article where you can't get a debt reprogramme if the believer blocked you, while no one is talking about how you're probably in trouble because someone didn't pay you. Therefore, this is the second discrediting decision, and now definitely after this, the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46638	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am giving amendment number two to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is in favour, to the vote. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 38 votes against, have adopted amendment number two of the Governments of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 3 abstentions, have been passed by the Tax Debt Act due to the economic crisis in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46639	And we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 366; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You've received reports. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Economy Minister Alen Leveric is with an associate. Deputy Minister intro? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46640	Thank you very much, Vice President. As you know in order to increase competitiveness in the field of mining activity in the Republic of Croatia and to create preconditions for the purpose and effective management of mineral raw materials mainly for the exploration and acquisition of hydrocarbon exploitation, so oil and gas has been developed a new Mining Act adopted in the Croatian Parliament. In order to enable a higher degree of legal certainty and flexibility in the realisation of business interests, research and acquisition of hydrocarbons, and the need to regulate this specificity, specific issues in a way that has been defined and accepted in world practice, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, has been drawn up. As the final draft of the Law took into account the long-standing world practice adopted in many countries based on the exploitation of hydrocarbons and the attitudes of EU Member States in relation to foreign investors. Within the framework, 60 hydrocarbon exploitation fields have been approved in the Republic of Croatia, 13 hydrocarbon exploration sites of which 57 exploitation fields are located in the mainland part of the Republic of Croatia and of which gas is stored in geological structures in one hydrocarbon field. While three hydrocarbon exploitation fields are located in the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia, the basis of the three concessions was built, i.e. 19 platforms and 2 hydrocarbon exploitation fields in the epicontinental band in 2012 at 1.2 billion cubic metres and 59% of the total amount of gas obtained in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, in the Epicontinental Belt of the Italian Republic, there were 40 concessions built, i.e. 107 platforms on which more than 5 billion cubic metres of gas were acquired in 2012. In the Republic of Croatia, we currently have only one concessionaire for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, meaning INA, Oil Industry d.d. Zagreb, that is, the concessionary of the underground gas storage company PSP About. This Law provides for the possibility of dividing concessions into more than one investor, as it is common that two or more investors enter into these types or together because of the level of investment and the complexity of the operation itself, so the concession would be divided into participants according to their share in the project. It is important to point out that ownership of the entire documentation and all hydrocarbon-related data belongs exclusively to the Republic of Croatia and the investor has an obligation to keep them and hand over to the same competent institutions. In view of the character of works and the consequences that could result from a lack of attention when performing mining works, the investor is obliged to have all the required insurance during the whole duration of the contract and to give the policy insight into the start of the work itself. The significant newspapers that this proposal, the Final Proposal of the Law, are as follows, introduce a unique procedure for issuing permits and entering into agreements for exploitation. We have a contract for research and division of hydrocarbon exploitation and a contract for research and exploitation with the obligation to pay taxes and fees, i.e. there is a possibility of a combination of those two contracts. They are clearly defined by this Final Proposal of the Law of Obligation and the Rights of Investors and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Investors are allowed to use land to perform mining work with a simpler and more efficient process of resolving property legal relations either on state land or owned by natural or legal persons. A clear obligation for investors to comply with all applicable rules relating to the protection of nature and the environment, the health and safety of people and property and the resolution of the area in which mining works were carried out. When the contract is signed, investors shall define the amount of bonuses and fees and the Act shall determine the formation of the Agency for Hydrocarbons and the jurisdiction of the same, or of a national commercial company whose core activity would be to explore the exploitation of energy mineral raw materials. Croatia, as a full member of the European Union, has also implemented Directive 94/22 of the European, EC and all other directives concerning the same storage, storage of carbon dioxide and other Directives relating to hydrocarbon research and exploitation. The Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and the adoption of the relevant rules on hydrocarbon exploitation research and the signing of appropriate contracts defining investor rights and obligations would ensure legal certainty for investors who would be willing to invest significant financial resources in such projects. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia would have the opportunity to reach an economy of important energy resources without more investment. That is, the Republic of Croatia takes over the legal acquis of the European Union in relation to the geological storage of carbon dioxide. During the debate in the first reading in the final proposal of the Law certain nomotechnical and structural changes were made, therefore, so much of the introductory part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46641	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs want on behalf of the Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In his first reading in this Law, the Club of Croatian Labourers made 5.6 serious proposals, warnings and requests to the proposings or representatives of the proposings who were then in the hall. And in order to get as good a law as possible. I see now that in this text of the Law for Second Reading none of that warning, suggestion or suggestion that has been given has been seriously studied or incorporated into the text. I ask myself if it's because of a lack of understanding or intent, but really then there's an intention of the law being exactly what it's written with a series of dangers that he's carrying with him. In addition to trying without a principled debate, I will stick only to certain provisions of the proposed Law, we have given two amendments and I hope that we will not again be accused of inappropriate discussion of conduct in the Croatian Parliament because we will not have the same opinion as they or representatives of the Government. First of all, I would like to conclude that at the moment Croatia ran out of INA, the world-renowned companies for research, exploitation of oil and gas and the sale of INA to MOL in Croatia virtually ceased any serious exploration of hydrocarbons. And we paid for that high price as a state. And someone's got a lot of money on it, and they're gonna keep getting rich because of this law. Well, let's take it in a row. Article 6(4) shall allow the Agency, at any time, to request any information and information from the investor relating to compliance with the obligations under the legal conditions. In principle a quite good provision but there is a number of supplements missing and I warn that the right of the Agency to request data is not a guarantee and the whole, essence of our remarks will go in the interest of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia when the matter is of mining wealth. There may be a dispute on the data requested by the Agency. It may be called into question whether they have all or not given all the information the agency has requested. The Agency's right to verify the information it has received is not entered in the Law. No possibility has been entered, the Agency's right to seek expertise or expertise in the event of a dispute. The Agency shall have the right to request a point. And he'll get what he gets. Is there a dispute in that data, nothing. And that agency exists to protect national interests so that it can check, monitor the investor whether he works in the spirit of this Law and contracts not only on research but also on exploitation. The power of the state through this agency must be that the Agency has the right to carry out expertise, skills and to enter a dispute, and even in the slightest doubt that the investor has not supplied all that information. And what they and how much they are worth, we shall come to that. Article 22(5) defines the mandatory content of the contract, and among other things in one of the numerous paragraphs, that an integral part of the right to ownership of geological information is obtained during the execution of the contract. And that's good. That's it, that's the component of the contract. However, Articles 41 and 42 that are a little closer to explaining what these data are owned by the Republic of Croatia and which should not be disclosed to anyone for 5 years because of a lack of time, I will not quote them in Articles 41 and 42 but will ask the following question. Who, and how, in the name of the Republic of Croatia, oversees what the concessionary already knows, what data has he come up with? It says here he can't reveal them. What about the contents of that data? So, what geological data did the concessionary come up with at the time of the investigation? What did he reveal, in view of the extremely large development of technology, the possibility of the Croatian state's influence on keeping these secrets is only valid if it has the ability to monitor what happened? Croatia is on the H1 block in Syria, and information on the find worth more than $20 billion was kept secret until the moment of the end of 2004, the moment INA is being sold, and you know who is on behalf of INA and for the INA account on that terribly valuable field, or the bloc, as it is more correct to say, I don't know why you don't accept this term that geologists are constantly proposing to you, radio? Before the negotiations on the purchase of INA by MOL were launched, MOL's company from Budapest, which was equipped with EC technology with all the information that was there. And the Croatian government has never been informed or publicly published what has been found in Syria. This law allows Croatia in the middle of the Panon, the Adriatic or the Dinarids to come into the same situation that the concessionaire from the Croatian state hides half the data that he has come to and we remain helpless. So if that school wasn't from Syria enough, then we're going to the Adriatic. Isabela, North Adriatic and Marica or Edina and Ajip – does the Croatian state currently have all the correct data that Italian partners have not only geologically but also in quantity at the amount of energy obtained, i.e. gas and oil? This team more than this law provides that the State Inspectorate shall periodically in terms agreed in the contract have the right to control... the amount of energy. I guess he still has two days to announce that these devices are going to fit. So, we, and now on these examples, do not have the mechanisms of constant control and constant supervision of neither the Mining Inspectorate nor this agency. Article 14 shall speak and specify the procedure before the call for tenders to determine the limits of the investigative space. It is one of the most important things who will and on the basis of which the criteria on the Croatian map will draw an investigative space no. 1st, Research Area No. 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 3. No. 4th, No. 5, 30, 60. And what do you think when these investigative premises are determined for the competition, and this research space goes to the competition, it will be done with a triangle and a pencil on the map of Croatia or on the basis of some existing data on geological research? And who has all this information for Croatia? Croatia at least, I assure you that the least, and foreign partners the most. It's funny to someone, someone can complain about it, of course, because they haven't spoken to geologists who have worked for 40 years on the job and who have pierced all the wells in Croatia and who have achieved the H1 Block in Syria in favour of Croatia. Who have worked on this for 40 years and who are just warning that foreign partners have more information than the Croatian State about where to go drilling. Article 45 discusses CO2 disposal, geologic footprints. It would be a minimum of decency to ban the impression of CO2 which is not a by-product from the territory of the Republic of Croatia from happening to us that CO2 is coming from abroad, which we will include in the geological structures in Croatia. There are no obstacles to the proposed law. Furthermore, when someone finds or starts exploiting in one field of investigation, there may be a huge discovery of 5 or 10 km away. Is the ownership of what he has not discovered, and there is, his is only because he has a concession on the concession field, i.e. an investigative exploitation area or remains owned by the Republic of Croatia? This is our second amendment that we have given and we believe that, beyond Article 19, we should add a new article that would regulate it, and it is precisely offered by experience in Syria. On that same block... The Americans had six test drills and said there was nothing there. Then came INA Naftaplin and only on three of the first wells that they made discovered reserves and finds that were estimated to be over $20 billion. If this amendment that we have offered is not accepted, it may occur that due to the contract and concession law, the person who has received that contract is also entitled to the gas or oil findings that are subsequently revealed. I want to believe that these two amendments, written by the profession, not politics, are considered by experts, not politicians. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Scientific Council for Oil and Gas, has also made several proposals from which I only single out that the question of defining the height of the mineral rent should be the subject of law, not sublegal regulations, and they therefore see such populists as HAZU and the Scientific Council for Oil and Gas as well as consider it to be good to define in the law that it amounts between 10% and 20% to the quantities obtained. And this law suggests that the decision on this will not be passed through the law by the Parliament but by the proposal of some commission by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The mine rent was and will be the topic as well as the water rent of large and frequent discussions not only because of the interest of the Republic of Croatia but also local communities, local self-government. Let's not interfere with that when we talk about it. If, without legal criteria and clarity in the provisions, we miss and enter into the tender and conclusion of a contract without the right of the state body of control whether it is a mining inspectorate or this agency who will at any time have the right not only to request but also to carry out a check of all data in the research phase and all data and the facts of the exploitation phase, we can repeat the situation that, based on the assessment of the exploitation value, we are making long-term contracts like we did for the North Adriatic area with an Italian partner when the contract was concluded at the estimated value of 11.6 billion cubic metres, and the Anamaria field ended last year, only one rig gave 40 billion to the official counter. Those who understand how to cheat on a counter say it may be half the amount actually acquired because in the name of Croatia there has been no one in this law for years in all research fields and wells and there will be no one. We see here the main problems of this law and I believe that these two amendments that have been given the minimum expertise of the profession to accept and install in the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46643	Thank you. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46644	Thank you very much. I think my colleague Lesar agrees with what you said, but I don't think we can compare for a while. Honestly saying that maybe then there was no contract with the ENI we probably wouldn't today given... the situation we were probably wouldn't have had any drilling in the northern Adriatic. But what may be the greatest quality of this contract is that we built a gas pipeline to Zagreb and what we have practically done infrastructureally that Croatia can be supplied with gas from several directions because we can practically use it in agreement with Italians 100% of what is drilling in the northern Adriatic. But today we are not in such a position, we are not to say so under the mus that we have to do something and use this experience that happened to us in the northern Adriatic, using those experiences that we had in Syria in Egypt and somewhere else where we had successful and unsuccessful things we have to pass the law in such a way to protect our natural wealth because it is foolish to say that international institutions do not know what Croatia has underground, it is simply ridiculous. Especially at the time of the cold war division of the Berlin Wall when we were a little bit here, a little bit there was normal for them to be interested in how they can control Croatia and for sure they have all that information, so let's not be fooled that someone will come to a dead end in Croatia and... knows exactly what they want. According to this, we both need to protect our interests with this law. But I'm saying this ENI-INA case clearly tells us that we have to behave differently. And you should also say what was the reason why it was done that way then because today we were talking about Petrochemy, Petrochemy can't function profitablely until there's no cheap gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46645	Thank you. We have a colleague Lesar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46646	I can agree with you because I actually need to know more because you participated in this added value contract with an Italian partner. Possibly. However, we have missed the possibility of dealing with other partners with the problem of gas supply, especially by building at least two more necessary gas storage facilities, which has stopped any debate after, yes, the money problem. And we'll always find that the problem is money, so it's cheapest in the least, when gas is the most expensive in the hot season, it should be imported. But you're right, no one on the outside will come and start drilling at a dead end in Croatia. That's exactly what I'm warning you. If someone really is so naive that anyone will come and start drilling on the dead end in the 21st century, they have data. Also in northwestern Croatia four years ago, the same MOL conducted the most modern studies of geological structures especially in Međimurje. They were there for three months. And in Baranja. And in Baranja. And the towers... So now I can draw Croatian cards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm asking, setting the limit of the investigative space that it's going to cost, what it's going to be worth when some card clerk sets exactly that limit, the limit of the investigative space. That's what scares the hell out of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46647	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. So here is a little less information than the interested subjects of Mr. Lesar but with a little more trust in the profession and a good will of the promoter to propose a law that will be in the full interest of the Republic of Croatia and respecting the time and that it is a second reading, here is to allow me, in the shortest lines, to state why and how the SDP Club will support this Bill proposal. So, it is clear to all of us that it is in the regulation of the energy sector today and especially in the future and that without quality regulation and the one that drives us to come to Europe but also because of our own interest but also because of finding as much energy self-sufficiency as possible, because it is actually difficult to imagine the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia without as much as possible, let alone the industrialisation that we are dreaming of, it is difficult to imagine without more quality and efficient energy supply. And, of course, the best way to find those energies is to find them, because then they're not just about the closeness and the cheapest and the most favourable with their own amount. Therefore, since all these years, in recent years we have recorded a decline in production and oil and natural gas, I would not talk too much about reasons, we also talked about the first reading, obviously there is a good need for this Law. The progress of new technologies certainly opens up the possibility that even on once-discovered beds, and possibly let new ones put into commercial function with respect to all this information and of course that many energy companies and these are indeed giants who, with knowledge and with money in particular, cannot even measure with some countries and also our small country. So, of course, they put those and the technologies that they have, of course, need to be the technologies they wear to bridge, so that the insecure that objectively small countries have and try to find something that is possible and that on the most complex terrains and besides, it is also the INA while it was so powerful it speaks of which... She worked abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there are always sites and these big and so powerful companies doing it in cooperatives and together. So together we try to find some new solutions. Both the knowledge and experience that our experts have in these institutions and we have received from all clubs from both trade unions and from many other institutions many suggestions from professional nature, but I think that, remarks, but I think it is precisely that knowledge that the Croatian man and Croatian expert have that will benefit tomorrow and the INI, but perhaps some other companies that are not necessarily Croatian but when they come to Croatia are Croatian and they use to make use of the total economy. So, we concluded on our first reading that it's good to better regulate that area and that this Law, there's been a lot of debate about whether the Mining Act, whether it's a lex specialis, we've chosen to pass a new law. And that we must certainly take care of competition and adapt to competition. By competition, I mean countries in the very near and nearer environment. Because as much as we think of ourselves as we are the biggest and most important and most beautiful yet there is quite a competition in this area and it would be good to draw the highest quality investors to ourselves under this law and, of course, after the benefits we have both as a country and as they say in our core busnies in finding oil and gas. So I said the dilemma about whether or not we had resolved in the lex or not, and obviously there's no longer any dispute about it. I believe it won't be in other clubs' discussions either. What is important is that we also took into account in this Law the long-standing world practice of those who, the best world practice of those countries that have a similar situation and who are also part of their economic success, actually based on the exploitation of oil and gas. Norway is also mentioned, which is in this respect the goal but also many other countries. Someone said if I remember correctly in the last discussion that we had partially copied those laws. Well, if we are, it's a good thing we did that if they're really the best practice in the world. So the aim of this Law will be to enable the state on the one hand to manage natural resources well. But on the other hand, investors need to be given full legal certainty and flexibility in the realisation of projects when we talk about this competition because otherwise they won't show up here. The shortest, therefore, most significant issues were raised by the minister at the inaugural stage, but what is most significant is practically the introduction of this unique procedure for issuing permits and entering into contracts. So, based on one public tender in one procedure which has not been the case so far and that is what enables transparency, enables competitiveness. The contract defines clear rights and obligations. And what is important is ownership of the entire documentation, so all data belongs to the Republic of Croatia. And on the other hand, I say it's very important very important information. About these secrets, about everything, colleague Lesar is obviously much better directed, but I think we're providing enough on that side of this contract. Of course, benefit law and better enable land use with a simpler and more effective process of solving property-legal relations which unfortunately is always a problem with us. What is particularly important are the maximum standards in the protection of nature and the environment, a clear obligation for the investor to support all applicable regulations relating to the protection of nature and the environment, human health and safety, property and the need to resuscitate the area in which mining works would be carried out. I say, according to the belief of the profession, and I, the expert and the pronoun, believe in it, these standards are higher than in some and more developed countries than we and our neighbours, from Italy further, and I think that's a good way to go. We can only improve them, not move on. So, the aim of this law is to give the opportunity to take the highest, highest environmental, but also business standards to take advantage of the wealth that we nod, so this time we've had down tomorrow we're going up to develop a complete economy. We have on the one hand, and the law must allow a potential investor to exercise its interest, but of course it has full legal certainty on the other, since these projects must indeed be invested in considerable financial resources which the Republic of Croatia obviously and also INA and while it was in state ownership and has not had enough. It is therefore necessary to ensure legal certainty on this side. What are the changes, as soon as possible. On the proposal of the Club of Representatives, Article 9, Article 64, the comments in that part, minor observations, of a minor scope, have been taken into account. For Article 40, it was an objection and it was, in fact, the most significant complaint between the two largest clubs and the HDZ and the SDP, but also some other colleagues and the Committee on Economy that I chaired. I'm glad we did this article... on the financial side of it really couldn't work. Therefore, things that could be respected are respected. There have been some more objections, they're not but well, they can never be ideal. In fact, perhaps the promoters know better than us laymen or at least most of our laymen. What to say in the end, after two readings I think we have managed to balance this law and that this law if it is indeed the use of positive experiences of those who have far more experience than we do, but also the experiences that are therefore in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also thanks to the strong company INA's oilpulplin in the area of others. If these experiences were able to be incorporated into this law then I believe that we have managed to pass a good law, of course, with the full protection of the ecological what the son of Quanon has contitiated, and that this law will therefore enable investment to be encouraged in this respect, and then economic congestion in every respect, that, apart from energy balance and energy self-sufficiency, we hope and believe that it will boost the investments of every other area because Croatia has the capabilities through the re-use of shipbuilding, etc., etc. Even if we're lucky to find something, we stab what the people would say or gas or oil where you'd be happier. Last sentence, the SDP club will back this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46649	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Đuro Popioč. Here you go, buddy Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Deputy Minister. Unfortunately, as was the case during the first reading, the debate on this important law has been pushed now on purpose or by chance, but here it is happening really late, after a whole day of several important laws, and it is likely to be to the motionor, like me and us, that this law has not been given the opportunity to discuss in any fresher terms, so that the public also has the opportunity to hear what is happening and for reasons why it is also announced as one of the practical strategic laws that should provide regulation for some future economic potential that is possibly hidden in this very law and for the reason for which it is being passed. As the speakers mentioned earlier, so we also tried to point out the many shortcomings the law itself has and here is the good and the rare fact that you have observed a number of these remarks, that you have changed something. Let's say this former article in the 40th that was really unsustainable and that it was a definition of some financial obligations for investors, a way of getting distribution, for example, and the like, which in our legal system is extremely well regulated in many other acts and many other laws. However, although this article has been completely deleted in some of the provisions of this law, there are still definitions that can at least be said that they are questionable and I will really in this late time only mention some other things that seem to me to be not good here and why this law has problems. So, for example. Article 22 defines the types of contracts the State will conclude with the investor and these are the research and division contracts for the exploitation of hydrocarbons and research and exploitation contracts with the obligation to pay taxes. As for the very techniques of relations with investors, partners, some have mentioned this before, this type of oil and gas exploitation in Croatia has been known for 40 years, if not years. So that's how INA did it, it's something, and it's still today these examples in practice and living. Here is a reference to the practice that took place on the Adriatic, meaning joint investment with then a number of years with which this investment was compensated, or paid in the form of gas delivery to the strategic partner. And as for the fee, of course, it's an existing practice of gas and oil exploitation by the INA. But for what reason, however, it is constantly pushed into this law to define something, to contract tax payments, or obligations to the state, and to everything that the state expects, or is regulated in our legal system. So here you are already suggesting that these business entities may have different tax and all other treatment regarding public administrations than any other business entities operating under the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Whether it's intentional or accidental, I can't assume it, but at some point it can have a really very negative impact because the investor is going to ask to contract a tax because that's what you're saying here. So what tax he can arrange, they're probably just as bonds of all taxes and taxes as well as everyone else. I therefore note that the application of this law in that segment could also have problems, so see if it is really necessary or if you can still fix it. Furthermore, we really don't understand why the exploitation permit is given here for 30 years with the time of research entering that period, and the Mining Act provides for 40 years. Unfortunately, the status and role of the body of the state administration continued, i.e. the ministry itself and the intended agency did not experience any more significant changes, i.e. almost no changes, and apparently you do not have the courage to form when you are already doing so to the real agency, a serious oil and gas agency. And this role is actually so I won't say useless, it would be too harsh and difficult. But all that this agency has now stated could have done to a strengthened ministry which I personally think should have been done to the Ministry of Economy in the direction of energy and the entire energy sector, i.e. the energy part of the economy. The agency itself has a role to play here to help the investor, it has some sort of control mechanism. The roles of the agency and the State Inspectorate are mixed. One set of these powers that are given here points to an administrative bureaucratic body and does not really read what agencies for, similar agencies in the world are doing and what role they play. But I must admit that, especially here, there is a question of what this authority of the Agency means, so in Article 6 of paragraph 2k. where it is said that the Agency submits a report to the European Commission on all the general difficulties investors face when accessing or carrying out activities to seek the implementation of activities. There's a mistake. Research and/or exploitation of hydrocarbons in third countries to which they are shown while respecting business secrets. Now what difficulties will this agency inform the European Commission? For those investors who have difficulties in Croatia or here it writes in third countries. So what third countries is this agency in charge of? Again, I have the impression that someone has used material from some other countries and that everything that does not fall within our own regulatory framework has not been properly and clearly defiled. Check what this means, what reports on problems in third countries will be submitted by the Agency to the European Commission. Furthermore, this law aims to allow this area to be maximumly open to potential investors, which should also be the world's largest companies. That's why it's completely incomprehensible to me how the whole article 8 could be found here. There is a right to participate in public competition and, unfortunately, here, repeats both what happened in the Investment Law and what is some sort of urgency and permanent problem of our legislation. Instead of improving the investment climate by such laws, we are improving the entire entrepreneurial environment, we will do everything to push further restrictions on more bureaucratic obligations. And how are they going to, for example... Today is mentioned in the newspaper by your minister and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and some other great world players, how they will be able to compete if we watch this article 8 who cannot compete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is said that economic operators can compete, i.e. those who have outstanding debts with grounds for public administration, non-payment of fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, use of forests, forest land, agricultural land, etc. How these world players will prove both to coma and to which public offerings and in which country their credibility, or to assume these conditions, will provide them in the end. Well, then that's not enough, and then we're saying all the certificates are needed, so we're looking for a confirmation from the IRS, so the State Inspectorate says that a natural person or a legal person is not found in an illegal investigation of mineral raw materials. Where? In the Gulf of Mexico, Africa, Iraq or where if it's... Or is it a domestic legal person who formed it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for exploitation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look and then write a confirmation of the body responsible for the management of state property. What do they have to do with it? It's something or something. Well, that's where we have to decide. Then comes the problem of the EU, and that Article 8 of paragraph 4 also has problems where the entities are, because they can and must, for the sake of freedom of movement of goods, capital and business, if registered in the EU, then they must bring all this from the adequate institutions that exist in the EU. And what if they don't exist like that? If there is no competent authority for the management of state property there, what will someone from the EU who is registered there, who wants to work with us, bring it in? How? And that's why I'm saying that again someone I believe wanting to protect, we always have this problem, I don't know what, complicated thing... and practice actually impossible and in the end we have problems like we have that no one alive wants to invest here and come to do anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an interesting area of course. It will be the subject of interest but in practice this could potentially cause huge problems. Here's something else I've noticed and what I'm really saying well-intentionedly because I feel like there might be a lot of things going on here, and here's one commitment that you've listed here that I have to admit I don't understand how it's going to be realized. He says in the section transport via pipeline and says the investor is in the context of exposure... works required, this is Article 35, to build a local pipeline as a connection of an exploitation field with a master pipeline that will be owned in accordance with the terms of the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we say we'll find oil on the Adriatic. So are we going to build a pipeline from a platform that's going to pump oil to what? To Krk where the first point of JANAF is because he's the only highway pipeline for oil and that's actually the center? What, how are you gonna do that? For gas, I can assume because the gas highway has completely re-netified all of Croatia, but I don't understand where those who will find oil in Međimurje will join here as Lesar potentials it? So they're going to have to work a pipeline or in the Adriatic instead of doing it in all the seas of a world full of crude oil tankers, these are going to have to work for a pipeline to the first masteral water. Maybe I don't read it well, maybe you thought something else, maybe it's literally like this, and how am I gonna do it differently? The law is the law. So maybe the same thing should be considered what that means. And so perhaps now another more careful analysis might find another force of such questionable things that could cause the law to be implemented to be a problem. And just one more word, I don't know why this law should have been put here, Chapter 3. — permanent gas disposal of geological structures. As hard as I've tried, there's nothing to do with the intention of this law. So we want to pump CO2 into the empty geological structures. But what CO2? So, the one that's been produced somewhere and that's a surplus probably. I suppose you had to settle it with some law because of the EU, you had nowhere else to go, so you put it in this one. But it has nothing to do with a law that has this name of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation because here it defines how concessions are to be given for this activity. Well, if he needs it somewhere, he should, but it was a shame to push it into this law because he might have some more quality provisions. I suggest, if that's possible, that one more time this is being combed, that it's well analyzed, perhaps by some and third reading, nothing will happen. You here assume that within a year you will only form an agency, that is, up to a year. The law is now in effect, and the agency will function in a year. And the minister says oil will be in the paper in two years. It doesn't work, it just can't be done in time. Why do you need to form an agency here in a year? I'm afraid it's precisely for these reasons that there are a lot of unspeakable things here, doubtful, that we're not ready to support this law, although it has a good intention and it would be good to really direct it to the third reading to filter it out again and add new quality and additional quality to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46651	Thank you, too. And on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Deputy with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. Right away in the introduction, let me say that the HNS Club will, of course, support this law. What we find positive, and we have pointed out, and during the debate in the first reading, is that because of the importance of this law, it is good that this law was adopted by normal procedure in two readings and it is evident when the text of this final version is read that the legislators have nevertheless taken into account part of the suggestion that is changed in one part and the essence of certain articles, and they have also respected certain remarks of nomotechnical nature. To begin the need to pass this law towards us in the HNS comes from two facts. One is the fact that Croatia is energy again I will repeat a dependent country, as well as a number of other other countries in the world, which of course does not deter us from intending to fix this balance as much as possible and to increase the production of energy in the context of this law is about hydrocarbons. And another important reason is that so far the legal matter that has followed this economic activity has shown in the general context of mining means the exploitation of not only carbon but also mineral resources, mineral raw materials, or existing legal norms that we have so far in place have created very prominent legal uncertainty, in fact, increasingly serious investors have prevented them from engaging in such a business adventure in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The very fact that a separate tender procedure for research fields from the exploitation process led to legal uncertainty and situations that were absurd. This is particularly important in this sub-domain of research and for the reasons that oil research is much more expensive, i.e. hydrocarbons and natural gas, much more expensive, much more demanding, more complex than relatively simpler research, for example, when it comes to mineral raw materials. This law has removed this anomaly and we believe that it gives much greater security to future investors as a legal framework. The existing state of affairs when it comes to exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation in Croatia 60 exploitation fields, 13 survey fields, 57 fields on land and 3 fields in the epicontinental belt, therefore not in territorial waters and in that part of the national borders, but certainly in the area of extended jurisdiction over which Croatia is entitled. And the law is important and the chances resulting from the improvement of the legal matter that follows this for the reason that Croatia has an epicontinental belt of a very large area. It is about 23,000 square miles [23,000 km] of which is a large part of the batimerian when it comes to depths that are extremely suitable for research. What is more than the advantage of this law is, for example, the possibility of more companies joining more legal entities and sharing concessions. This is important in view of the fact that the practice in the world also shows that a number of such cases are associated with several companies because of complexity and demand. That wasn't the case with us until now. The law incorporates certain provisions that protect the very clear interests of the Republic of Croatia, so I will, for example, specify the provision that all documentation and everything resulting from research becomes owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is also very important to make precise and express requests for guarantees financial in the event of incidents which are unfortunately not impossible in this activity, require very clear and warranty and insurance in the event of an incident. Two types of contracts with potential concessionaries are foreseen. Those contracts, based on the distribution of hydrocarbons obtained through the exploitation phase in certain proportions, are also possible for the payment of concession fees and taxes. Of course, the possibility of a combined contract is mentioned. In the HNS, we believe that this bill is very consistent in its basis, i.e. to follow all the standards of such legal matter that are in force in other EU Member States, and since recently we are part of that round of countries, so of course Croatia is also in line with its standards and standards in this area with the standards of other EU members. I stress our satisfaction that the legislator has accepted part of the possible part of the suggestions and remarks made by both MPs and other parties and some parliamentary committees in the Croatian Parliament. We support this law and hope that, as announced by the Minister and as announced by the Croatian Government, the text of the law itself will bring results over a shorter period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46653	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will start by discussing the united points of the proposed agenda on 11th and 12th means: A)A proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, under point B B)Admission of the annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2012. I point 12. Report on the annual report on the implementation of the 2012 State budget A year. Good-bye by tomorrow and I wish you a pleasant extension of the day. Session interrupted at 19.38 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46654	Final proposal of the Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 366. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee, the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club and the Croatian Labourers' Club. I would like to ask the representative of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Alen Leverić, to show himself on the Committee on Legislatives of Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46655	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46656	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46657	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46658	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46659	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46660	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46661	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46662	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We have exhausted the amendments of the Legislative Committee. HNS representative club, amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46663	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46664	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Croatian Labour Representatives Club, Amendment No. 1. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46665	It is not accepted since the same is already established by Articles 4 and 5, 10 and 13 respectively, and Article 26(6), respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46666	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46667	In this new 20th article we proposed... [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46668	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46669	We are protecting the property of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the investor is allowed to exploit hydrocarbons only from geological layers in which he reported the commercial discovery of hydrocarbons and which was confirmed. There are cases where hydrocarbon reserves and other geological layers are established during the exploitation period which, after reporting and confirming the commercial discovery of hydrocarbons should belong to the Republic of Croatia. I think you could appreciate that, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46670	Please make your statement on Amendment No. 1. A Croatian Labour Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2nd same club of MPs, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46671	It is not accepted because Directive 2006/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2001/80, 2004/35, 2006/12, 2008/1. do not allow that restriction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46672	On behalf of the applicant's club, the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46673	And this 45th article, which we have complemented, actually leads to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and this proposal prevents the possibility of providing imported CO2, let's say, in the race for profit, and what is highlighted in the Republic of Croatia could lead to the threat of human health, nature and the environment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-10-0.u46674	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 2. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 26 votes against the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. He answered the words of the respected Nedzad Hodzic on behalf of the National Minority Club. Here you go.
