ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u35509	Here you go, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u35510	Dear Madam Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for another shameful government decision on the replacement of the director of Vukovar's heroin hospital, Dr. Vesna Bosnianac. Before the ceremony in connection with Croatia's entry into the EU, it is likely that to cover it up and go unremembered by the public, the government has made this shameful decision that represents a political reckoning with one of the symbols of the Vukovar resistance to Serbian aggression in the Homeland War, and we believe that this must be discussed here and I am looking for a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u35511	I'm taking a break until 10 o'clock and 38 minutes. It's 10:00.28. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, a colleague, Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, will speak after a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u35513	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we're asking for is a break from the Parliament to discuss another shameful decision by the government that has been removed from the post of Director of Vukovar Hospital Dr. Vesna Bosnian. Dr. Vesna Bosanac, I don't need to think about it and tell anyone about it, is indeed one symbol of resistance to Serbian aggression in Croatia but at the same time a symbol of peace and tolerance. It is recognised in the world not only in Croatia as heroin, which in the most terrible war conditions cared for all wounded people in Vukovar Hospital regardless of nationality and religiousity. We all know what she went through in Serbian prisons, we all know that she was among the first to return to peaceful reintegration in Vukovar and there in the destroyed city to rebuild, equip and modernise the Vukovar Hospital literally from the ruins. This was, of course, done with a transparent excuse with the excuse to do so for the recovery of that hospital as the same excuse used for the party shift of the director of county hospitals under the pretext that these are hospitals that are in debt, so now we need to put resolution managers who will save the matter. Of course, it's about a transparent deception and untrueness. First of all, it needs to be made clear that virtually all hospitals are down, they are down for reasons that are fully reflected precisely in the case of Vukovar Hospital where the Vukovar Hospital is constantly cutting budgets gets 6.2 million kunas lately and only for the salaries of staff spending 7.4 million kuna. And, of course, it is fully evident that it must be at a minus, as in the rest, I stress practically all other Croatian hospitals once again. However, it is a clear, political move and that it is a political reckoning with one of the symbols of the Vukovar resistance that also says that in those hospitals where the principals were members or close parties of the ruling coalition, they were simply declared to be recovery managers. So that's about as much logic as you say you have a company that goes bankrupt and then you declare the CEO of that company as the bankruptcy manager of that same company that was headed when she went bankrupt. But that's not all. Former directors have been named as bankruptcy managers, some of whom have police applications, criminal charges for abuse of duties under the DORH investigations. And they could've stayed the remand managers in their seats. The directors who took over the hospitals were in plus and today tens of millions in minus they could remain in their same places and the heroin of the Homeland War Dr. Vesna Bosnianac was under this repeated transparent pretext replaced. What message is that? A series of associations and defenders but not just defenders but let's say the Croatian patients' association rebelled against it and said that here I quote that she is one lighthouse that shouldn't and shouldn't be put out by violence. And that's exactly what happens, violence and lights out. We need to make it very clear that we are very concerned because it is a message to the defenders. The defenders are obviously good when they're used as a fig tree to fool the public, for example, in connection with the arrest warrant law, but when they're heroes of the Homeland War, then they can be replaced and they're not so important. I also want to make it very clear that many defenders are wondering whether we, too, are going to be replaced by other defenders of the Homeland War or if something worse is going to happen to us. [[Intruder: Lock up please.]] I think it's such a shame to have to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament and I'm actually asking on behalf of the HDZ Club for the Prime Minister to come here and explain this shameful event without any precedent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44865	We will now move to the first point of today's agenda, that is - Proposal for a law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, PZ No. 420 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. And the introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Economy, Mr Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44866	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In short, a few introductory sentences about the law. A big debate arose a few months ago when at all with some draft, the first draft of the law, we went out in public debate and here I am saddened by my grief, and many investors, we failed to complete both rounds of passage through the parliamentary procedure before the summer break. It doesn't matter. Nothing radical, catastrophic happens. Obviously, both the public and the constituency clubs and MPs have spent several months on a quality debate may be better than to rush into the procedure, and later in the application of the realisation, there may be problems. So the fundamental reason why we propose this law stems from the need to launch an investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as one of the main drivers of the development of the Croatian economy. The law is passed in order to speed up procedures that have so far been halted, significantly slowed or made time-consuming investment projects of great value and importance to the Republic of Croatia. You know that we have had a very large number of investments that have stood for years for a variety of procedural reasons or various adoptions of spatial plans at various levels where, in fact, only by retaining investments, they would have led it to questionability for reasons why and then the price of capital that should be realised is of course changing if all investment, investor and financial sector plans followed by investors are being questioned. The proposed legislative solutions will provide the necessary legal framework to create assumptions for the launch of a sustainable investment cycle, and the launch of an investment cycle and major projects will positively affect the overall investment climate and the even greater attraction of other projects. Those reasons shall also be supported by the constitutional tasks of the State which, pursuant to Article 49(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia raises economic progress and the social well-being of citizens and takes care of the economic development of all its regions. Here are several basic legal solutions and why we decided to encourage large investment projects. There has been a lot of debate on why not all the projects put in place and how it is possible to monitor it operationally. Why the big one? Large investments have a different, completely different investment cycle but not of course someone less. They are affected by more regulations than when it comes to smaller investments. Also, for such large projects, the investor is most often obliged to adopt detailed plans of the organisation and urban plans of the lower order, which very often slowed down and complicated the realization at the levels of local and regional administrations. Large investments are not neglecting, of course, and these are less important than the state's importance and interest, and because of the employment of a larger number of people because it is a major investment and a wider impact on economic opportunities in the region where they are realised in the country. Of course, it should be taken into account that every major investment and even after realisation, but even during realisation, employs a large number of medium and small enterprises. Some of the ratios we all talk about are that one large sector employee in the large industry and in a large investment brings 4 to 8 employees in small and medium-sized enterprises based on either co-operatives during or after the realization of companies in the large system. And big investments help to develop infrastructure from both transport, municipal, energy and everything else. It is my desire here to highlight a few more things, that certain segments in the regulation of the relationship to which this law is reflected are set out by a series of specific laws and regulations which remain in force and which will continue to apply. This law only aims to shorten and speed up the process of coming up with the overall documentation necessary for the implementation of projects both public and private projects. The first idea a half year ago when we discussed that we needed such a law was actually public, to speed up public projects even basically those that come from structural, funding from structural cohesion funds. Then we realized that there was really no reason not to give that chance to big investment projects that were initiated by the private sector. A procedure for preparing and implementing an investment project is established with the aim of achieving it effectively. The procedure shall be designed to establish all the necessary processes, the competences of the bodies in which the work is to be taken, the appointment of responsible persons who will play the role of the executives by the competent authorities, the obligations of the national regional and local authorities, the obligations of the investor and the dynamics of their enforcement. So, a completely clean picture within which deadlines, which responsible persons, which bodies of the state administration should do. The criteria and procedures for the establishment of strategic investment projects and the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia by concession regarding the implementation of the strategic project and the issue of administrative acts relating to the implementation of these projects are also laid down. The law does not give more rights than is currently prescribed by the current laws of the Republic of Croatia which regulate the implementation of the investment in the Republic of Croatia, and the conditions under which someone can currently be authorised do not change and remain regulated by the current law, but only affects the speed and effectiveness of these procedures. So there was also an open discussion that something like selling, owning, selling. Under the current law, all powers go hand in hand. The only thing he'll care about is the efficiency of the procedure. I also say that no strategic project will make this particular point if it is necessary several times it will not be possible to achieve this if it is not provided for in the spatial planning documents. So simply what's not in the spatial plans can't be realized and no one's ever had an idea and it's never written that differently. However, for the issue of a local permit, building permits, the applicable permits are prescribed the unique jurisdiction of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, thereby significantly shortening the authorisation procedure. We are all witnessing what it looks like when the local administration is waiting for its position first, and then when they smell it somewhere, then they ask the ministry's opinions, so they eat there for a few weeks or months in correspondence between the various authorities of the state administration. Here, according to existing legislation, we have only given jurisdiction to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. It is also of particular importance to create the possibility of attracting investments in areas of special state concern as well as in all areas considered less developed according to the development index criterion, where the total value of investment costs is needed 20 million kuna. It is also possible to implement projects that can be co-financed by funds as I mentioned earlier in the EU programme, and the total value of the project's capital costs is the same, in fact, greater than 75 million kuna. Under this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make a public call to potential investors to invest and implement an individual strategic project when it is estimated to be of state interest and with the aim of attracting investment and reaching a decision to realise its investments within the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law of the Ministry of Economy has been agreed with the Ministry of Justice on the procedure of expropriation and the speedy resolution of property-legal relations as well as with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure related to concessions. Then, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Tourism, Agriculture, Regional Development, EU funds, culture, environmental protection, nature, the Ministry of Administration and all colleagues have been very detailed in which procedures are expected in the last few months and that any ministry's reaction is expected during the implementation of the project. In fact, the ministries themselves have sought solutions that some of their existing laws that have been amended through this law in order to speed up investment in the Republic of Croatia, in fact, through this law, have their formal and legal obstacles that they have in this way speeded up, and then, of course, in a period that follows and in the existing legislation, they will remove those barriers. Perhaps, in conclusion, this law should be seen as an instrument that will allow us to raise the administration system to one higher level within a relatively short time, so that the administration gets specific instructions and procedures on how and when to prepare and implement an investment project either in the public or in the private sector. It is important to note that under this law non-compliance in the adoption of administrative acts, sanctions such as the imposition of a serious violation of official duty as well as sanctions for serious infringements of official duty are to be imposed. So, one supplement that can be sensitive but is necessary in order to essentially and responsible people who will know that they are responsible for a part of the job to know their responsibilities, to know their deadlines so that once we say that when someone takes one such responsibility that after that they do not execute, and the employee is a state administration, they can be sanctioned. And I will repeat the law is passed in order to speed up the procedures that have been stopped so far, significantly slowed down and made time-consuming very unacceptable investment projects and to create assumptions for the launch of a sustainable investment cycle and the necessary growth of the entire Croatian economy. A few closing sentences. We really invite you to an open debate, we are open to all suggestions that can help make this law as good as possible for the Republic of Croatia, for investors who come, for citizens who will be the greatest consumers of this law. And as we go into two readings during a break in the Parliament we will, last week I think we opened a public debate for another month, to perhaps get more in the public debate of suggestions that can help in the realization of all these investment cycles. We do not want to disabling any legal frameworks today, we just want in a very clear way to define both time limits and responsible people and responsible bodies of the state administration so that they do not have so that I can tell some historical story in the Republic that very often investors and when I can't go into investment don't even know who's responsible for anything or who's to blame for not happening. In a very transparent way, the government will also decide on a list of projects that will get the status of strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, so in my opinion, all the processes that are happening today in some investments in Croatia do not know what is happening at local level. In this way, in a much more transparent and clear and public way, monitoring any of the projects the government will appoint as in line with the criteria of strategicity. So I urge you to make a joint law in a constructive debate that will help, we do not need to help this government to help investors and our citizens realise their investment as effectively as possible. After all, I would really like to live in a country where this law is not necessary and that is to be said. That we have a formal legal framework where it is becoming more clear, where the authorities of the state administration and even the employees can react in a very clear way and where there is no difference that in some local self-government unit licenses can be obtained in 7 days and in another in 11 months. Or somewhere the spatial plan will change in three months, and somewhere in six years. However, for the overall change in the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia, it still takes a few years because a negative investment climate has been broken down for many years. I don't think we have a right to wait. This is a law that needs to actually provide for a period of several years while the formal legal framework and while everything we do to raise the competitiveness of this country and to amend the legislation in other laws, here is the Law on Spatial and Construction will be very soon, as has been amended and adopted. At a time when we change all this, I think this law will not be necessary in this country in a few years, and until then we have no right to tell our citizens to wait a year or two days because tens, tens of laws cannot be passed within a short period of time, which is much easier to resolve by this law. Here, I invite you to a public open hearing. I am convinced that since autumn he will again come to another reading on benches of law that will be useful to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44867	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica of a colleague named Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44868	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I therefore expected that in your opening part of your argument you would dedicate the most part of your reasoning to Article 17 because all these articles are, can be discussed in one way or another, but Article 17 is something that creates a dispute. Therefore, it is said that real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia including forests, forest land, agricultural land and public roads for the implementation of the strategic project is available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What about AUDI? You want to change the AUDI Act? That's one thing. Article 2 The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall have no public competition or no public collection of offers of market value according to the assessment of the authorised court expert. An authorised court expert is a market value in two things opposite. The market value has the IRS, and the court expert by some other parameters for assessment. However, this is a key reason why without public procurement and public competition. So, I expected you to explain that. And paragraph 3. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the consent of the Resoring Central Authority of the State Administration, may set out the forests, i.e. forest land necessary for the implementation of the Strategic Project, etc. I think it's a fundamental challenge and in the first practically draft law, you have to define to what level it is. It can't, because there could be a thousand acres here, and there could be 100 square meters. To pull some kind of parallel, you had an IKEA case where one part of their plot didn't fit them, the other they needed, and they were supposed to replace it with the state. So, one piece of agricultural land for another piece of agricultural land. So it's not disputed to make it so. But in this paragraph 3. it is necessary to define which surface it is. 100 acres isn't some area for a strategic project, you understand. But look, I'm just telling you if you're opening up space, and this opens up space for a variety of manipulations if you don't have a public competition, then we can think about what might happen. I'm saying, it's been a struggle since the beginning, and I expected that in your opening part of that article, you'd form the 17th, and then the debate would probably go in another direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44869	The reply to the replica by Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44870	I don't know in which way I would assume what you're thinking and what you expect from me when I present the introduction of what the ideas of the law are, in which way I should conclude at what point the article 17 is in the focus of your thoughts, but fine. Article 17 is one of the articles that is not crucial and we are not running away from you suggesting very simply what your proposal is. How do you know how long the IKEA lasted and one piece should be replaced with another piece, so it lasted as long as Mr. Schucker, a few years. So we almost lost them, so we got them anyway. I invited you in a public debate to suggest how much a restriction should be, so maybe all of us here, as I do and all the MPs, will say what are the advantages or disadvantages of your proposal. I personally don't think that we should put restrictions because the restrictions very often if we say it is 100 square meters will come to us an investment that will be 102 square meters so we'll tell yao how now, we want to change the law or you're how very often the state administration says you've crossed a 1mm and you don't fit the laws anymore, so we wanted to be strategic if we decide for a strategic decision that the government will then say in a transparent way what are squares or hectares that are in the interest of realisation and investment solved, and not have a limit so that someone once found a reason to think about one plot, two parcels, three plots or one investor or two investors on one strategic project financed... or anything else, so it was an idea. But okay. suggest, let's go in two readings, say what your assessment is that we can write it down that it's something that this law cannot apply to, whether it's 100 square meters or 100 acres, and we'll discuss it together, I think it's the wisest thing. As far as your comments on public procurement are concerned, I am pleased to see it if in your opinion all articles are excellent except for Article 17 that I am primarily pleased, as regards public procurement means if the Government decides in its procedure and criteria to put on the list a strategic project which will in a very public and transparent way be presented to the public then procedures that are below it Here, then are the procedures that are below it, let's not complicate them, let's not assume that then someone in public procurement systems and we have problems in public procurement systems that you and you know and we know, we know how to lose them, we know how to lose hundreds of millions of kunas, we know that companies will get into trouble because we have a system of public procurement at work, and in this way we have already made a decision that should go in a transparent way and there is no reason to lose then months and months to some unnecessary public... [[Aggression: Lock down the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44871	Thank you very much. You can explain that when you get back to me in 10 minutes. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Chairman of the Committee on Economy Igor Radinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44872	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here in the shortest lines since you got a written report from the board on the bench. So at its 24th session of June 27th, the Committee discussed this draft law and, of course, in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the 67th Article of our Rules of Procedure. All participants in the debate stressed the need to improve the investment climate and concluded that this bill is an important step in this direction. The proposal for a bill is a compromise on the one hand for a favourable and simple investment environment for investors, but on the other hand protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. This bill significantly reduces the scope for corruption through project control instruments such as giving an opinion on the project by the Ministry of Economy and the State's Attorney's Office and prior to the possible conclusion of a property transfer contract owned by the Republic of Croatia to investors. It was also pointed out that a broad public debate, therefore, is an important factor in improving the bill in two readings. After the debate, the committee decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament with a majority of 7 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. The proposal for a law on strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia is adopted, and under 2nd of all opinions, observations and proposals submitted in the debate, the applicant is invited to take them into account when the law is finalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44873	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want it? Thanks no. I'm opening a debate. They'll discuss clubs first. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44874	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the start of the SDP club will support the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. Before us is the long-awaited Bill on Strategic Investments projects of the Republic of Croatia. It has been under public light since January of this year, and as we have heard from the minister now, there will be some time before the end of the second reading, and the proposal that we have in front of us came about after the public debate. In addition to the opinion of the professional public in Croatia, the proposal also welcomes the European Commission's remarks, and the provisions on environmental protection and the more detailed definition of the provisions under which an investment will be considered strategic. The fundamental reason why this law is proposed stems from the need for the urgent launch of the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as the main driver of growth and development of the Croatian economy. This law aims to shorten and significantly speed up the processes for the implementation of the full documentation necessary for the implementation of the project both public and private, which are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. only the simplification of the acceleration of the procedure should have a clear impact on the increased interest in investment projects in the Republic of Croatia. The law deals with the process of assessing the selection, preparation and implementation of strategic projects, then with the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, by giving concessions in relation to the implementation of strategic projects, by issuing administrative acts in connection with the implementation of strategic projects. But not in a way that changes already existing legal solutions, but in the context of existing, different legal solutions, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lays down responsibilities for the project and clear procedures and in this way reduces the deadlines for obtaining the paper in principle. Article 5 defines the conditions and minimum limits for obtaining the status of a strategic project. The total cost of the project must be equal to or greater than 150 million kuna. If the project is able to be co-financed by the European Union programmes and funds, then the total value of the project's capital costs should be equal to or greater than 75 million kuna. In the case of investment of funds and project development in assisted areas, i.e. regional self-government units of the first category, i.e. local self-government of the first and second group and ultimately of the island, the lower value of capital costs of investment is 20 million kuna. In doing so, all projects running and determining as strategic must comply with spatial planning projects. They must comply with the strategic documents of the European Union and must not be contrary to the obligations undertaken by international contracts. And this article practically discusses the proposal's intention to fully respect regional, regional and local self-government. Because no project can be declared strategic unless it's in accordance with spatial order documents. Strategic projects under the proposal of the Law may be private, investment projects financed entirely or partly through the investment of the trader, domestic and foreign legal persons, and public investment projects, such as projects owned by a public undertaking owned by the Republic of Croatia or those proposed by a unit of local and regional, regional self-government, and ultimately public private investment projects. Such projects are considered to comply with the regulations governing a public private partnership. Special insurance has been set up through Article 8. Laws that generally define an unacceptable investor and unacceptable capital. So it is clear that the proposer's intention to eliminate suspicious capital, to try... possible neural points in a possible future partnership relationship that needs to be realised through the strategic project itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this way lays sound foundations for the whole process that has yet to be built. In the proposal before us, which is the basis of Article 6. The law equates domestic foreign investors with the ability to obtain strategic investor status. This is also understandable in view of Croatia's membership in the European Union and the principles to which the law is called in Article 4. But also on Croatia's desire to attract to a more substantial extent foreign investment... that the lack of clear procedures as well as the possibility of considering the deadline within which a project would be implemented was an obstacle to both domestic and foreign investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Law also defines the chain of responsibility through Article 9. The law, i.e. through the government's obligation to form a committee to assess and identify proposals for strategic projects. Then through Article 11, which defines the establishment of an operational group for the preparation and implementation of strategic projects. These articles of the Law also define the scope of a business which should be dealt with by unformed bodies as well as the responsibility for carrying out the same tasks. It is important to emphasise that representatives of local and regional self-government are actively involved in the Committee for the Assessment and Identification of Project Proposals and then in the Task Force for the Preparation and Implementation of Projects. The rule shows that there is no speech about imposing decisions on units of local and regional, regional self-government. And there's no talking about skipping those in the decision-making chain. With respect to one of the European Commission's suggestions, an earlier proposal has been corrected in the environmental protection segment, so maximum compliance with the provisions of the Environmental and Nature Protection Act is prescribed. The central authority of the State Administration responsible for protecting the environment and nature by means of a legal solution before us is required to demonstrate and determine within 15 days the need to implement one of the procedures provided for in the specific regulations governing environmental protection and nature. If this is not in a position for complexity or other justified reasons, it will inform the Commission as well as the interested investor of the need for an additional 15 days. In the event of the need to carry out a process, any environmental impact assessment shall be carried out in accordance with specific rules establishing the protection of the environment and nature. The proposal for the Law found in Article 27 for the implementation of all procedures in space, and for the construction of all buildings necessary for the implementation of the strategic project, a local and building permit should be obtained. And for the use of these buildings, a useful permit. What is one of the regrets I have read from the public hearing of the report by committees is that it is not good not to apply the obligation to draw up an urban plan and a detailed plan in connection with the issue of local permits for the implementation of the project. However, the real truth is that it has been possible so far, clearly if it is planned... , i.e. the spatial plan was indicated in the text section the possibility of solving the space in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also good that a system of responsibility is finally established for a particular project, especially in the administration. Every day delays in issuing opinions and permits for projects on the list of strategic investments, the state institutions will pay 5,000 kuna. The government intends to force the administration to strictly respect deadlines and the law on strategic investment projects. The law defines and limits the deadlines for issuing a solution after the investor has submitted the application neatly. The procedure is detailed in Article 14. A law that speaks of the urgency of dealing with strategic projects as well as the possibility of punishing the official person and the governing body who conducts the procedure. The relevant change has also been made in the concession-approval items, and it is envisaged to speed up the award of concessions in the case where an interested investor needs more different concessions in the context of a single strategic project. Procedures for the award of concessions in this case will be brought together and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make one joint decision for all these concessions and conclude only one concession agreement. It is clear from everything that the intention of the Law is not to please the investor, but to the project of which the realisation will benefit the wider social community. Given the situation in the economy, such investments are essential for us to develop the economy in a sustainable way. It also allows for balanced and sustainable development of the entire community. It is clear that there is a need to support small investments and the smallest. But this law does not deal with it and such investments are not the subject of this Law. Also, some of the objections addressed to the ministry is that more effort must be made in structural reforms, not in the making of shortcuts for privileged entrepreneurs, to create a potential situation for diversifying capital in space without the local community being affected. These objections do not correspond to the truth and are easily denied. I've done it before in exposure, and for the sake of the public, I still have to do it again. This law is not a shortcut but a clear definition of procedures and showing all interested people that we are able to systematically and purposely work on the project from idea to realization the shortest and most effective way. By shortening the time limit within which the investment is carried out, we are practically raising the competitiveness and profitability of the project to the benefit of the entire community, clearly and to the benefit of the interested investor. This law is here to resolve these very things, not because of any privileged entrepreneurs. The fundamental misunderstanding of this law is that it is in principle deeply turned towards the progress of the Republic of Croatia, and its critics draw the wrong conclusions about privileged entrepreneurs. Further to Article 9 of the Law in the Committee for the Assessment and Determination of Proposals for Strategic Projects set up by the Government under this Act, the presence of a representative of a local self-government unit in which the project is being implemented is clearly defined. Article 2, Article 5 of the Law states that a strategic project can only exist which is in accordance with spatial order documents, so there is no capital savagery. And again, I will emphasise, in the area of local and regional (regional) self-government, a representative body, in accordance with the laws and in accordance with the prescribed laws, adopts spatial order documents. So there is no talk of excluding local and regional (regional) self-government, nor of imposing some projects that have not previously been declared by the local community. There is no talk of imposing projects that are not of interest to the local community, and this should be kept repeating. The business world and potential investor on the other hand expect the new Strategic Investment Project Act to help remove administrative barriers to large investments. We in the SDP are aware that this law does not solve everything, i.e. that the law solves a small segment of major investment that is important and will help create new jobs and send a signal to foreign and domestic entrepreneurs that it is time to start investments. However, parallel to this law, both the Ministry and the Government must launch other mechanisms as soon as possible to remove obstacles for all investors and we believe they will. I'm not saying that you shouldn't be careful about the property, according to the award of concessions and the like, but you don't always have to blow cold because we got burned once upon a time. In society, there is a great fear of bad experience in the '90s, and that fear is based on our historical experience, but fear does not mean that something like that will happen again. The fearsome must not stop us in the progress and research of borders as far as to go and constantly question and move those borders as soon as conditions are obtained. In any case, this particular fear can help us to better define the conditions under which a project will be announced strategically, under which conditions we are willing to open all doors and migration barriers, but also all of our knowledge and experience on the other hand helps us to look at the possible benefits of this law, to put them in line with our fears so that we can assess which way to go. It happens to us that for the first time we have clearly prescribed procedures, that we clearly see and show the way and the way the investment should take place and that is certainly a major shift from the practice so far. It's certainly a thing that all investors, whether they private or public, domestic or foreign, greatly appreciate. Perhaps the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia Branko Grcic best painted the spirit of this law. Although it is not the custom for me but here I will quote it: this law will apply all the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia that define different segments in the preparation of investment projects. This is a law that will fundamentally change the environment for strategic investment projects. Because of all the above-mentioned ministers you have the support of the SDP club, you also have my personal support to insist on these positive changes. The SDP club will support the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44875	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the replicas. First up, colleague Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44876	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well esteemed colleague Vidovic, if I were to really reflect on everything you said it would take 10-15 minutes, but essentially everything you said you proved that you simply did not understand in the SDP what it means to encourage an investment and entrepreneurial climate. And I'm going to rephrase to you, specifically, one sentence that you said, that this law should be a function of actually attracting foreign investors. Imagine that a serious foreign investor comes to Croatia and reads, of course, this law says that his administration should be attached, let's say General Electric, a certificate of impunity, BON 1 and BON 2, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will publish the details of his investment project. And besides, I'm looking at Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and think about what he's going to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44877	Replication response, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44878	I thank the esteemed vice president. A respected colleague, therefore in one part you may be right, yes, but the law states that he can also bring the certificates that apply in his country, or which... betray but I think it's less important. I think that entrepreneurs will appreciate much more that they finally have a clear path, a clear path to go from the very beginning of the investment to the end, that they will appreciate much more that it is hired by the practically vice-president of the government in charge of the economy, the minister of the economy and the like, in one project to the local community itself and that these arguments do not have any particular power before these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44879	Replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44880	Honored Madam Vice President. Dude, you know what, I'm going to take a general replica of your speech in the sense that everything you're saying right now I wouldn't say that there's no logic or even that I couldn't support any of the proposals in this law. That's not the point. The question is asked by your colleagues, you speak on behalf of the SDP and the Kukuriku coalition, so now after two years, the authorities are proposing a law that might improve something. So for two years, you've spent the passing of laws in an emergency process on cemeteries, this and what I want you to understand. You've lost two years, and now you're going to be building some big strategic projects like Omble. Well, that'll do 30 people, and it'll be over in seven years. You do not understand what a strategic project is, is Croatian agriculture and Croatian tourism. It could have been employed in one year, say, hundreds of thousands of people. You are now destroying tourism on Croatian islands by raising the price of transportation and transportation towards Croatian islands. You've destroyed agriculture and destroyed it continuously, I won't say it on purpose, but if in some way you could say it like that. You didn't offer anything to Croatia. And now, in the end, you've mentioned Branko Greek to me. That's my Split. I'm a little patriot local. Well, he keeps saying we'll have a better life in a year. And now he's moved to 2016, he's already come to 2018 and 20th. So who is this Greek? What kind of economic strategist is he? What did he come up with economically, strategically? So he has no idea what he's talking about, I got him media... called some kind of strategist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He has no idea. What did he strategically suggest? And you call upon him as you quote him, his words. At least if you'd quoted your favorite leader, I wouldn't blame you, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44881	My friend, be careful, though, you are talking about people who are not present. Replication response, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44882	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleague Marasovic, I will not use your dictionary. I'll just say here we've been cleaning up your cemetery for two years, cleaning up what you left behind. And because you can complain and you can moan as much as you want, but that's a fact. [[Intruder Zgrebec: A colleague please!]] That's a fact. As far as love for Croatia is concerned, love for Croatia is shown in a way to pay taxes, not to take bribes, not to go into corruption and the like. It's love for Croatia. So, as far as the law itself is concerned, I think the law is good and all my colleagues believe in the SDP club think it's good. What is clear is nothing is perfect and clear that things can still be improved. And as for Mr. Branko Greek, I'm not his lawyer. The man is Deputy Prime Minister, Professor Dr Branko Grcic. I think that says it all, says a lot more about him than what you've said says a lot more about you than about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44883	Please. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please maintain a little level of discussion, and colleague Shucker, please. Clear this out of the hall, and my colleague Vidovic, please choose your words in the debate. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44884	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Coliga Vidovic, in your presentation as a particularly important article of this law you pointed out Article 5, because you say it will prevent corruption and guessing because it is clear, which gives strict and accurate principles. You're absolutely wrong. See the small article 5, especially the first item of that article, which speaks of the criterion that a project would be a strategic one to employ a larger number of people. What does that mean? To contribute significantly to development or development, to contribute to sustainable development and protection of space and the environment to a greater extent. In this way de facto any project can be strategic or perhaps none will be strategic. But that lucky guy whose project gets in between strategic projects will exactly what you said it wasn't true he'll go through the state administration and through the laws with a shortcut. While others who have not fallen into these criteria will have to work for example urban planning, they will have to work on detailed urban plans, etc. etc. Therefore, the criteria are not set unambiguously except for the amount other than the amount. But then it should not be mentioned that some project contributes significantly or allows for greater employment, etc. etc. And if the government has assessed that the only criterion is the level of investment then it should be written, and not even further, in the first paragraph of that most important article, to talk about some general principles which will allow the commission to determine that it is strategic and the second one is not. That's not good. Such an approach is precisely favourable to corruption, it is precisely suitable for a project that, for only the government of known reasons or for that commission that the government will appoint, will be declared strategic or not. Therefore, I think that I am the law in many, in many articles it does not go towards this transparency as you said it on behalf of the club, but it does in this way enable individual similar projects to be appropriate at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44885	The answer to the replica Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44886	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, I was not talking about Article 5, but I was talking about Article 8 when it comes to corruption, i.e.... So that article discusses it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I haven't written it, so I can show you, but it doesn't matter. Okay. As far as Article 5 is concerned, they may agree with you in some ways, yes, that some criteria may even be improved, etc. Especially on the islands. We know that on islands and millions of kuna investments, I think we're all aware of that. But on the other hand, too. Look, there are projects that are useful to the entire community. That's exactly the kind of project we're talking about here. So we're not talking about any investors, this, that. I'm talking about projects that will benefit everyone. Such projects clearly require government involvement, and it is good that the government is involved directly through ministers and through its bodies, through the end of this commission that the government is forming and the operational group that the government is forming. On the other hand, if they start to think about all the projects that way, then I think it's gonna blow up. Therefore, I am still for some of the criteria to remain. We can talk about whether 150 million kunas or 100 million kunas, but I think there are limits just below which we shouldn't go in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44887	Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44888	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vidovic, you said at one point that this law would lead to a reduction and simplification of procedures, acceleration. So you've actually used all those words that we'd like to turn into action and into our reality. However, although this law has come to a parliamentary debate and after a long public debate, I am not really sure that it will achieve that goal. I am not sure that he will achieve this goal because of the many restrictive provisions he imposes, which he already mentioned by fellow Milosevic, BON 1, BON 2. You know, these big investment projects are being set up by special companies. Then it will have BON 1, BON 2 empty, it will have no history, it will have no history, and it will result either in public or among administration many problems. Certificates of punishment, impunity – Croatia is already known to seek such certificates in some international affairs. For example, when Croatian public companies are looking at tenders for obtaining financial resources, then they are expected to confirm their impunity. the delivery of administrations to some major international banks such as JPMorgan and the like. That makes you laugh. Delivery of certificates of impunity of low-ranking officers otherwise, that's how they handle it. But this law won't simplify the administrative procedure either. In Article 18, I do not understand it, it is said that after the Government makes a decision on the expropriation, on the separation of forest land from an economic base and all this expensive opinion on the purpose of the central authority of the State Administration for the Economy, and before the conclusion of the agreement on the transfer of ownership rights. Listen, I don't understand. After someone's decision has been made by the government, I don't see how the Ministry can have any more views on purpose. So you have one and an administrative loop. [[Stupid Zgrebec: Collars]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44889	Replication response, Franco Vidovic. Please take care of the weather, there's a lot of reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44890	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44891	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44892	Excuse me. Dear colleagues, I think I responded to this first part of your replica from the time I replicated it, that is, when I responded to Mr Milosevic's replica. So there are various paths, we can talk about them. I agree with you that a new company can be formed, when it goes into investment that this company will clearly have neither BON 1 nor BON 2 nor anything else, it will only have a basic capital, it will have some investment capital, etc. However, on the other hand, I think that we must leave certain freedoms for people who decide that because it is a fairly broad body and commission and operational group. And it's made up of different colors, so as not to be fooled by the fact, the local community is involved, the joint bodies are involved, the government is involved, etc. And I think we need to leave them some maneuvering space in the spirit of the law itself. So I see this law as something that leads us through the forest regulations and is trying to establish some way. And on the other hand, what you're talking about might be that in one part you're right. In this second section, how will the government single out? It's based on location. So, after the release of the location, that's what the government is doing now, your government has been doing in the previous assembly as well. Therefore, when it comes to state land on the basis of a local government, it makes a decision denying or not denying or giving up the conditions under which it provides any land or building or whatever it is to rent, lease, concession, etc. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44893	Thank you. And a colleague of Ante Babic's. ... Comrade Dalic, please not from the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44894	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Vidovic, you said in your presentation, I quote: "The law will help both foreign and domestic investors, and then you said that the intensity of this law is not to please the investor but the local community." Which is not only contradictory but insulting and common sense. In fact, capital logic is a profit, and the investor will take great care of both the tax policy in the Republic of Croatia and the administrative and ine barriers and the contradictory statements of government officials and so on. And don't forget, it's not just lawmaking enough for an investment climate, it's enough environment, it's got to be, the environment has to be that way to attract investors. Often, you know that the impression is more important than content itself. Even those who come from outside read, watch, monitor, and listen to what happens in Croatia. And remember those people who were lying on the roads in Cvetni, I don't know what the projects were in Croatia, it sent a very, very bad picture of Croatia and of foreign investments in Croatia. That is why investors who succeed in the Republic of Croatia because of their wealth or wealth become complicit to everyone, from state institutions to the media. And this is very badly reflected in the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44895	Replication response, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44896	Thank you. My dear colleague, I said that there is no talk of imposing projects that are not of interest to the local community. This is clearly evident through the prior adoption of spatial plans because it is precisely the representative bodies of the local, regional (area) self-government that have the authority to adopt spatial plans. So, if it's something, it's also pointed out by the minister, if there's something in the spatial plan, and then I guess that's the local community's interest. Well, then I guess it's good to spend it. As far as investors are concerned, I said that this way we raise competitiveness practically the entire investment and cost-effectiveness of the investment if we speed it up, if we can speed it up with this law. And yes, it's the same and ultimately, so why would it be illegal for an investor to want to make money? I don't see what the problem is. And why it would be illegal at all if someone who pays neatly and the RH tax from which the whole community actually uses it to end up making money. I think that's a perfectly fine thing, and I don't see what's on your mind here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44897	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go. My colleague Caine, just a moment. Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44899	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, I'm not going to do this, this says something, "Free Dalmatia today," but I'm only going to do it on the Proposal for a Law on Strategic Investments and Projects of the Republic of Croatia. What is certainly good is that the Law goes into another reading. So what do you start with? I would say with one remark, with this Article 17th, in paragraph 2 which literally states that I quote properties, owned by the Republic of Croatia, necessary for the implementation of the strategic project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall have at its disposal without public competition or without public collection of offers of market value according to the assessment of the authorised court expert. It is said in paragraph 3 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the consent of the relevant central authority of the state administration, can separate the forests, i.e. forest land necessary for the implementation of the strategic project and forest-economic base and transfer ownership rights to another legal person or establish the right to build on forest or forest land for other purposes by virtue of a local authorisation issued in accordance with the documents of the spatial plan, and, inter alia, the establishment of real rights on public roads for the purpose of which the establishment of such right is permitted in Article 3. etc. Yeah, I really think this article 17 is a key part of this law. The vast rights and powers will be in public authorities, meaning from discretionary judgments, which are projects that will be under quotes in one special way followed to the assignment of a state country, from extradition, what we used to be until the 1990s. In the years called expropriation to exclude public roads, from redefining, for example, maritime goods all the way there to establishing the right to build on forest plots or land. That's what the government does. Someone's going to say you're going far away from that famous golf law. But what I'm saying is, the government itself needs to be monitored. That surveillance mechanism needs to be installed somehow. Someone's going to say well, the government's control is individual bodies, the attorney general's office, there's a DORH, there's the position of the Parliament, I agree. However, Article 18 refers to the central authority of the state administration responsible for the economy, meaning that the central authority of the state administration responsible for the economy should be monitored in one special way. You need to install that one mechanism and it should be conditio son of quanton of this law. Why, because this central body of the state administration responsible for the economy I dare say it will have according to the conditions that the law is proposed and greater rights than both the Government and the Prime Minister and the Parliament and the President of the State and the Ministry and what I know about who and that body should be supervised. That huge power of theirs needs to be controlled. Could it be some Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament or some other body I don't know, but I do know that they should be monitored in a special way. What does this law speak of, among other things? It is said here that the Law on Strategic Investments, I quote, the projects of the Republic of Croatia want to shorten and significantly speed up the processes for the implementation of the overall documentation necessary for the implementation of the project, and I quote that this law establishes a procedure for preparing the implementation of investment projects with the aim of their effective implementation, etc., etc. Here we have entered the European Union, the fact is that investment has not been in place for at least the past few years. Is this law going to change anything? We'll see about that. On the other hand, as is also important, this is Article 5, which states among other things that strategic projects will be considered to be in line with spatial order documents that have the value of the total capital costs of investments equal to or greater than 150 million kuna, which have the possibility of being co-financed by the European Union funds, and the total value of capital costs is equal to or greater than 75 million kunas that are made in assisted areas where investments exceed 20 million kunas, etc. It's all right, I don't think anyone will, or at least I want to believe that no one will benefit from these conditions, that no one will prefer anyone, that no one in one word will be privileged. But what am I saying? Croatia is not only held by these large business entities that can realise 150, 75 or 20 million kuna projects. Croatia is not only driven by large economic operators, Croatia is also driven not only by large but by Croatia as we know it cannot be without small and medium-sized enterprises and we simply have to understand it. I don't mind the big ones, but I dare say that without these small and medium-sized enterprises there would be no Republic of Croatia and this is what we know and we have to understand it in some way. I don't know, until '90. For example, years One tourism economy in Poreč was a driver of the whole region, after privatizing large paralysis I would even dare say this space, living for myself, no longer for the end. That's the logic that's starting to change. Once great were the function of the whole community, and today communities contribute exclusively to them, not vice versa. What am I saying? The large ones who may even be able to implement such projects weigh 20, 75 or 150 million kuna, means these large entities that have over 250 employees, in Croatia there may be 500 and 500 companies cca with Todorovic, Adris etc., the tourist sector, shipbuilding, employs about 250 000 people. They fill the budget somewhere with 25% and have 50% of the financial potential of the Republic of Croatia. 2,500 medium-sized companies up to, say, 70, 80, 100 full budget employees with 25% and the distribution of income in this country participates with 25%, and on the other hand we have a hundred thousand small companies not counting here or counting here and how many 80,000 craftsmen, meaning that they employ almost one million people full of budget which is logically higher than a higher contribution, etc. a full budget of 50% and a total of these funds are particicipated with about 25%. And unfortunately for those little ones, little does anyone count. I'm not going to say that no one takes care of them, but it's like they're kind of on their own and it should just change that in some way. Why? Because these small business entities are holding the Republic of Croatia, so I said not just big ones. A drop down to one Todorovic who will take over Mercator tomorrow, 60,000 employees named Konzumu and in this other. That's about as many employees as there are of an entire Istrian county. Istra has about 70,000 people, here's 60,000, so that's what one man takes care of under quotes if that transaction happens. We also have to say every job I keep as a little water on my palm. We little ones should also be able to help, as this law wants to help large potential investors. It is not necessary to come from the side, why not from Croatia. But if we don't help the little one, they're just going to go under quotes, I'm not going to tell the market, I'm going to die, I'm going to ask what's going to survive. I am for speeding up the procedure to everyone, but once again without helping those little subjects we'll be on our knees. When two workers lose their jobs in a state service, then the whole of Croatia is on its feet. When two hundred workers, say, lose their jobs in private companies, then they're scrambling, and when 20, 30, 50 private companies that might hire 200 or 250 people by kneeling, then no one can speak a word of it. Here's just enough to look at how many of these business spaces are closed in Ilica, Tesla, I don't know here in the old town here around the Parliament, the Government, the Constitutional Court. So he doesn't even do anything. What I would also like to notice, means this is the law in the first reading, so we can discuss in principle why, for example, one law under quotes would not have almost every city or municipality or every county in the Republic of Croatia. Because what someone has is 20 million kunas or 75 million kunas or 150 million kunas to someone who is small is 200000 kunas or 50,000 kunas or 150000 kunas. They also need someone to simply meet them, because the accumulation of large and small investments can only be launched by the Republic of Croatia. And when I speak in Istria just as much as there's a great deal going on there is the possibility of a relatively near launch of the Istrian Ipsylon. The concession is a state, has secured that 100 million kuna, concessionaire Buik, means County, cities do not single out any June for the investment, which is logical. However, what is most important is to start as soon as possible before this project continues with the Istrian Ipsilon because this specifically means returning to work five hundred or more builders which can simply stabilise the blast market. What's also important to mention, that we simply have to fight for these and the small subjects, not just think about the big ones, but think about the big ones. You kid, that's what I'm gonna dare say is that she's the most creative generation I don't know in the '90s started with some private business that started some little trade, business. Today, these people are 55, 60 years old, they're running out of time, she's given everything to the state, to the workers, and there's almost nothing left, and in this fiscal press she could say so without everything. What is also important in this law Article 14. All procedures are urgent or urgent, it does not matter. The deadline is 15 days from the adoption of that one orderly law. It is said in paragraph 3 that if the central authority of a state administration or a legal person responsible for issuing an opinion or an administrative act considers that, for reasons of complexity or other justified reasons, it is not possible to draw up the requested authority, to issue an opinion within 15 days of the receipt of the duly submitted application, it is duty to notify the Commission and the interested investor without delay by written means of notification. It'll be interesting to follow those deadlines if we're capable of anything like that. Secondly, it would also be interesting to hear from ministers who are major projects that are under quotes in the Republic of Croatia in a particular county, the city, I don't know today on a waiting period that would be relatively near except for this ypsilon or the Zagreb Airport could already start building tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Are there any investors? Unfortunately, it's hard to see them at this point, but no matter what, this law may be a good start, but I think this central body of the State Administration responsible for the economy, these commissions, etc. which are mentioned because of the enormous discretionary powers must be monitored in a special way. Because I said, they have powers greater than the law written by both the government and the prime minister together and by the Parliament and the president of the state together and from the resolution ministries, and it can't go without their supervision. All in all, it's good that the law goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44900	Thank you very much. Now we have five replicas and since we have a significant number of replicas for each club and we have a lot of reports we're going to do without a break, to do this item on the agenda today. First in line, here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44901	Did this, Madam Vice President, begin the application of the new Rules of Procedure to announce the work schedule for that day at 11 o'clock? So if you're going to replicate there won't be a break, if you don't want to replicate there's going to be a pause. I think this kind of thing, if we've agreed before, I think it's time for them to make a deal today. The second thing, it was known to be the point of the agenda, that it was very interesting and that it would likely be open and debated about it. I don't think this practice just isn't good and it doesn't lead us any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44902	We cannot determine in advance how long the debate will take, and since we do not apply that provision in the Rules of Procedure to shorten the debate, I do not think there is any reason why we should not make or work without a break today. Comrade Lesar, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44903	I agree with you when you expressed concern about the government's great powers in implementing part of this law, and in particular Article 17. But the answer to your question, namely the background of that fear, is to say that Motovun forest in meadows beneath Motovun as well as the Mur forest in Međimurje by applying Article 17 can be excluded from the forest base and sold to a private owner. As spatial planning documentation is being brought in in Croatia, we are well known to all of you, and you know well how it was in Istria for... But the answer to the question of who should oversee the government in the implementation of this law is in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in Articles 2 and 52. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in Article 2(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Kingdom, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, The Constitution states that the In Article 52(2) and paragraph 1 of the list of special values protected by the Constitution, it states that the law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited. But it does not foresee the government's right to transfer this good into property to give someone the right to acquire ownership of neither the sea nor the sea nor the waters nor the forest, nor the sea's good, nor the animal's world, the cultural goods. And this law, beyond that provision, allows the Constitution to give itself to a person the right to ownership of the protected goods referred to in Article 52. The Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44904	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44905	Yes, Mr. Lesar, you address the wrong address when you mention the Motovun forest or the Međimurje forest. But I agree with you, what happened in Istria, mostly recently before the amendment of the Agricultural Land Act, where a square de facto was sold for the equivalent of a cigarette is something that is better forgotten even though under quotes it "exempt" and tried. Where a thousand squares were sold for an equivalent of 5 pcs of cigarettes should also be condemned. Where individuals bought tens of hectares for a dozen salaries, they later urbanized it, and now they have value in assets measured by millions of euros is something that is certainly needed, what should be spoken of. I'm absolutely in favour of installing surveillance instruments in this law. I want to believe that the intensity of the promoter, meaning the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the RES, is, firstly, to speed up the procedure, parallel to the crime, and in some ways simply to stimulate one additional economic activity in these Croatian areas. Do not favor anyone, prefer no one, but simply allow people to work and not be prevented by administration or procedure in their intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44906	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44907	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Cain, you said in your debate, no one will be favored, no one will be privileged. Now, give me an explanation in accordance with Article 17. How is this supposed to be done? Because that article does not define anything, only unlimited powers are given to the Government. However, it is particularly interesting in paragraph 2 that it says without public collection of bids at market value. Now, some forest land isn't worth a damn, but if you say that tomorrow someone is going to be doing something then that land is worth a hell of a lot. And what is the market value if nothing within a 5 km radius of forest land or agricultural land is not sold? What's the market value? Is that a place where someone can be favored or not favored? Also an evaluation of a court expert who has a number of factors that can be plus and minus. After all, we have this in everyday practice application that you cannot set the price. Therefore, only this provision, paragraph 2. of Article 17, without public procurement and market value which does not exist for certain agricultural land. And finally, when you look at Article 18, paragraph 1, that practically after the government's decision, some government body will again say that the government's decision is fine. It can also, in a certain way, open up space for corruption guessing and all sorts of things. So any undefined provision in the law unfortunately opens up space for some things, and that's why we said that this article 17. It must be clearly defined. And you don't have to call a public tender, you can make invitation offers something in any way to see what the real value of something is. And secondly, we forget that in Croatia we have formed 200 more and some other economic zones that are practically formed on both agricultural and forest land and inspective military properties that the Government of the Republic of Croatia... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44908	Thank you very much. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44909	I agree, Mr Schucker... the questions and probably no legislator of all these issues that will arise will be unable to translate into legal text but I agree that they should be prescribed as closely as possible in order to inconceiv in some way avoid them. Let us only remember the controversy of the Golf Act, and some elements in this legal solution almost remind me of that famous Golf Act. However, what is good is that the law goes to another reading. And I want to believe that no one will benefit, that transparency will be that form in which they will respect the allocation of these spaces to future potential investors. That's why I'm proposing one surveillance where perhaps individual bodies of the Parliament could be involved in order for transparency to be absolutely guaranteed. We should normally fight for as Mr. Bačić said "suitable" projects not for similar projects. God forbid we have capital in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow, or we can direct that free capital from the Republic of Croatia to individual investments, but I'm afraid we won't be watching that story that soon. On the other hand, I ask myself an open question what can Croatia give potential investors at this time? It can give maybe some military spaces or some of those military spaces, it can give part of the forest, it can give part of the agricultural land, etc. And what is extremely important, it can speed up the procedure, it seems, for example, by this law, it must contain crime or corruption and try to win investors by an adequate tax policy, either by itself or by itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44910	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44911	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said in your presentation that it was good, and you commended it that the strategic project is one that is among other things consistent with the documents of spatial order. That's not true. It's a grave delusion of this Parliament and the public. For what? Because according to a document of spatial arrangement for some kind of project, it is intended to create an urban plan of arrangement or a detailed plan of arrangement. And this law says you don't need it. It is therefore not a strategic project because it meets the criteria, and among them that it is in line with the document of spatial arrangement. However, this provision should be removed from the law and it should be said that the strategic project is only one that is in accordance with the law and is not at the same time in accordance with the spatial order documents. So let me tell you, for example. Now that you mention your Istria Brijuni, do you think it's possible to realize Brijuni I don't know Pineta, Hydrobazo, St. Katarina, Monuments or Muzil that it is possible without a plan of defense. Not possible, this project can be realised on the basis of a location permit some kind of strategic project just for some small plot of a single plot. But to claim that no urban planning should be done for a surface area of 50, 60 hectares where there is no municipal infrastructure, where there is no road, where there is no power, where there is no water, where there is no water, impossible. And you know it well. Therefore, it is not true that this law respects spatial-planning documentation, it is not true but that it goes against it. And secondly, it's not clear to me that you can praise the government for honoring us with the law being in normal procedure. Well, I guess it's normal for the government to send laws in the first and second readings and not the emergency procedures? On the low branches fell this Parliament if it praises the government for the fact that one law is in a regular procedure. I think we have to object not to go to the ER, not to praise the government for honoring us for the law in normal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44912	The answer to Damir Cain's replica. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44913	Well, I probably said that it's good that this law goes into second reading, although I agree that the public debate should have been a lot longer than it was. What I have the biggest grudge when it comes to this law is what big potential investors can be in a "privileged" position from those small ones. Those big, say, avoid these urban plans, and this kid's just gonna have to pay for it himself. I claim for some small investor 200 thousand kuna is a fortune that's huge money, as for someone maybe 20 million of those euros or 10 million or 20 million simply kuna. But I agree that investment should begin in a different way to treat and encourage. As for Brijuni Riviera, I have a lot of reservations on them. I don't think that the way it's conjectured is sustainable and I don't think that through such a form that it's almost anything that's going to happen there. But everyone will also agree that we need to enable a potential investor to work. Because if someone invests, it doesn't matter, 10 million euros or 20 million euros or those 100,000 kunas or 200 thousand kunas. This means that this investment will also pay the VAT, that someone will be hired, that a company will be allowed to perform some of the country's or I don't know what kind of work and all of this together simply raises our economy. Yes, once again, it is good that this Law is a delicate law going into a second reading, it would be good that between those two readings are conducted preferably as wide a public debate as possible and if it is possible to achieve any such consensus Although to be honest when it comes to Croatia in consensus I do not... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44914	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44915	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you said in your debate that this government should be monitored, that this government should be supervised, and I'm glad that you're being hunted by these forces that you in the ruling coalition want to oversee the government that you support because you realize something's going on. And wise men long ago said that when money talks, the conscience shuts up. And it happens precisely through this bill of law without predetermined intent whether it is good or not. But what I'm saying is what's been happening in the last month clearly shows that this tsunami investment over the past year and a half has made us all so dazzled that we've started running from the roads that have been routed long ago through clear legal provisions of many laws. And slowly resort to the shortcut system. And when we take the shortcuts as proposed by this Law, it can be very easy for us to end up in the woods. That after that, we won't know where to go. Because the time has come, we have entered the European Union to make it clear whether we want to comply with the laws that have been passed in this House, or whether we want to invent shortcuts all the time. I remind you of last week when we invented a shortcut in the Household Activities Act where everyone can now deal with tourism regardless of what we have so far. Investors will not come to the Republic of Croatia because of this Law. They're clear and unequivocal. Now, I think we're somewhere 58 per table on the competitiveness of global economies. After this law is passed, we'll be no. 58. We'll be the last, 60th.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44916	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44917	Here, I think we'll all agree together that both this and every government should be monitored. And our ministries all ministries need to be monitored. Every body of public authority needs to be monitored. We also need to be monitored by the work of the Parliamentarians. So you need to monitor and... And that's why we have those annual reports that we can use for that purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The D.A. needs to be monitored. And I think that surveillance is just essential and that the most important thing in all of this is just our public. But what it's really about. For two years, we should have said one or a year and a half of this legal text came before us. In the last year and a half, none, under quotes of a larger strategic investment, has almost been realised. But it hasn't been realized in four years, and we just have to be honest and admit it to ourselves. We simply need to do something, make it easier for this potential investor that some business in this country in that forest of administrative barriers can happen. And for the third time I'll say if we want to run this country, it's not just big enough, but in the same way we need to approach these small investors, or those small investors. That's how I experience this law. Whether this law will pull any new investments I don't know, but I know you should ease the procedure. And that's one of those assumptions that something's starting to happen in these rooms. But if we have bodies that have one enormous power but, as I said about the pay phone, both from the government and from the Ministry and from the President of the State and from the President of the Parliament and from these and from those bodies, then we need the control mechanism to incriminate them in some way so that they don't come out of those quotes so that the Istrians can say the furrows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44918	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44919	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain agreed with you when you said that Croatia is not only running major projects, but that attention should be paid to both small and small. But what I'm saying is, in reality, it's not like that. A short time ago, we were in this High House discussing the Law of Turning. When 83,000 craftsmen expressed their comments on page 9 and of course it was not respected. And it comes to 200 grand, 200 grand there's employees and a huge job loss. It's a similar situation with family farms that collapses 10 to 20 every day because of this government's disastrous relationship to agriculture, towards the village. And it's about agriculture as a strategic branch, and the people are full, and they're sick and tired of this strategy, the strategic branches. They expect deeds. Well, that's what you promised in program 21. You didn't promise 25% of the VAT, you didn't promise 20% of the power increase. And now, here we read today in the media that the economy minister says electricity needs to be cut. So what's the price of electricity going up when there's room to go down now? I don't get that at all. Indeed, then, these questions had to be answered long before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44920	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44921	There are only flowers left behind your government, dear colleague. Here, just the flowers. Where your foot really passed there, there all shines, all the flowers of the Intruder don't understand./... All growing up, growing up, the Istrians would say fishers, dragons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44922	A little humor. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Danesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44923	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words about the proposal of this law, and I would like to point out in the introduction that it has been mentioned a lot lately and also here in this assembly, and otherwise in the means of communication, etc., that sounds very nice, creating an investment climate. I think we're all behind this, and that's good, I think it's really high time we created this investment climate, and in my opinion, by studying both the reasoning and the individual parts, the members of this bill, I think that this law is, in some way, in order to create an investment climate. Of course, the investment climate, what colleagues have just pointed out, at the highest level and this is worked out here in several articles related to criteria, to select from 20 million to 150. Then the Government set up a certain commission, the commission set up an operational group to do the job, I don't want to comment on it, and at least convince some of the contents of certain members of that law, and I think it's really on this trail if it works out to say that this investment climate is going to be created positive. There will certainly be some problems, but certainly it is good and it is one great incentive to create such a climate. It may only be concrete to read this point 11 in Article 11 where it states that members of the task force in that task force are representatives of the local and regional (regional) self-government units, are responsible for their own head or mayor or mayor, who are responsible for the implementation and urgency of the procedures in this section. It seems a little abstract to me. We, Commissioners, and I am one of the mayors or mayors, etc., what will in practice look like our responsibility because we are somehow responding to voters. Now it is likely that it is the operationality and speed of these people who will work in these operational groups from this local and regional self-government. Now I have said a few words about this positive climate, or I estimate that it will contribute to the creation of a positive climate. However, it is very interesting that the introductory part where an assessment of the situation is given and for the first time, at least for me, has in one place listed in fact how many legislative regulations predetermine and influence the efficiency, on speed, implementation of these projects. There are 16 of these different laws here, and I don't think there's a few other things that I'd like to say that they're not even listed that they can hold back or make this whole situation very difficult for certain investments. What is very important to me and that moment I have already pointed out several times here for this speaker, almost 90% of the institutions whether the ministries, whether agencies, which are working to implement these laws, or to issue certain documents, certificates, consent, etc. is centralized with its headquarters in Zagreb and each of the 412 or how many municipalities there are, if it goes into the realisation of the projects, it must address these institutions located in Zagreb. Therefore, I, as chief almost nothing in Osijek, can solve this matter or very little, but all this is settled in Zagreb, and it is not really the same. Allow me, time will allow, there is still so much time to say one particular example now, to take advantage of this pay phone, both in practice alongside the best will of both ministers and the government and the former and present, etc. in terms of this climate that I stress, how in practice this bureaucracy, those people in the second and third order can create vice versa, not a positive but a negative investment climate. My municipality and I set up a public procurement two months ago for the construction of roads. The value of the works is 3 million, it could be said for one municipality a strategic thing because it is a travel network that is very important for access to our orans etc. Among others in the criteria there, the law allows you to ask the bidder in technical documentation to attach, says he may not, but may ask the person who is calling the tender to present his contracts that he has performed in the last five years. In view of the experience and of the performers who complain about whether it is difficult for them to find in the archives some time in those contracts, we shortened it by thinking that it goes to them for three years with the possibility that anyone who competes can normally report that they are interested, to fix, correct, etc. And for a wonderful miracle, there is a lawyer from Zagreb on behalf of a Zagreb firm who, by the way, we have seen no reference for the road and filed a complaint as to why we cut five years to three years. And that was the beginning of the fifth month. We're the nice two months when you can work a lot, 5 and 6 months lost. Yesterday we got a solution from the state procurement commission that they were right, that we were very wrong about it. And I accept that according to these tariffs, that's what we discussed seven, eight days ago. We have to pay 9,000 kuna cost, okay, we can even accept it if that's how it's interpreted. But we're very, very hurt that with that solution was still assigned to that lawyer who wrote on behalf of that firm because they seem to have no legal service or illiterate, so they took a lawyer to pay 46,000 kuna. It's a very big slap for the investment climate. You can imagine that now. Well, it's going to go on now, I don't know what it's going to be, we're not too happy and we're in the mood to pay for it, but obviously now it would have to be one observation that, by any chance, the Minister of Justice is here that a little bit and that tariff established by the Bar of Law that binds to the amount of the dispute, etc. etc. Because that's all on one page and three, four sentences on the other, worth 46,000. It's just that nothing's complicated. What I said instead of three years of five etc. And so one very, very negative climate investment does not work for the government, for ministers, etc. rather than for certain bureaucratic structures. I don't want to go further into the details of bothering you. I can only point out that, there was a colleague of Cain's here talking about it, that he would be very happy if he were to talk about urgency, etc. that it may be extended to public investments over a million kunas, so that in some ways we can use the instrumentation that should be a little bit simple to make that bureaucracy work faster. Because it's finally and consistent here in an explanation. He says very nicely "The law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia wants to shorten and significantly speed up the processes of coming up with the total documentation necessary to achieve the projects both public and private, which are of strategic interest to the Republic." It would be good to be of strategic interest to the municipalities, because what's for the Republic of 150 million is for my municipality 3 or 1 million, that we also profit from something in this respect. This would be commendable in any case, but I do not know in the second reading whether there is a chance that something might spread and change in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44924	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one came from Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Shoja, I'm glad you talked in this High House about the problems that the mayors of the municipalities face and how it works. Also, you've expressed a certain let's say restraint on the investment climate and these major projects. Well, it stands anyway, because if we just mention these commissions and these operational teams. If we think of a short time ago about the availability of agricultural land which is the ratio in these committees, what is the ratio and what will be the impact of these people from local self-government, which will be an impact and what way of voting will be to benefit the units of local self-government. And imagine now he says, he's going to have to report to the chief on these agreements and on those talks. We didn't even know we were so powerful and so significant. In reality it won't be, and the other thing about quality, the quality of these investments that are offered, let's say in our rural ones that are many times questionable qualities, and then they would have to convince us that it's good, that it's excellent. We are interested in the part where we are strongest, which is in agriculture, mainly in rural areas, to preserve this strategic branch, and not to bring it to these branches that it has reached that village before the break and that there is indeed no strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44926	Thank you, too. Answer me, colleague Shaw, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44927	An esteemed colleague, very briefly to answer a little of what you've been saying, and I'm glad. But in fact, it could be summed up in one sentence that both this law and some other regulations and rules must actually be regulated, brought simply for the reason that part of red tape does not do its job or does not work up to speed. It just comes down to it. If everyone did their job and in record time, maybe a lot of things shouldn't be doubled in regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44928	Thank you, too. And another replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44929	Mr. Vice President, you said that it was practically the officials of the second, third echelon, bureaucracy because of the ineffectiveness of the state. I couldn't agree with you. It's politics and bad laws, and bad laws are passed here or there's one government, another government, third government. The officers must protect themselves. Everyone, let's say you listed a public procurement, so I'm going to replicate it for you. Anyone engaged in public procurement has been declared corrupt, a thief, an dishonest, adjudicated, in advance, that the process has begun. And every clerk has to protect himself because he's going to be reported to the DORH, he's going to go to jail. So we are invited here to fix the laws and simplify the laws. I want to tell you right now that I think the Public Procurement Act is a bad law, that it needs to be processed and simplified. Whoever wrote it made a Ph.D. on that very law, and he had to hold the stands to enforce that law. He's a de facto cause of inefficiency of the state, one of the causes of inefficiencies of the state is the Public Procurement Act. It needs to be modernised, simplified, shortened, etc. Well, then the clerks are working under that law. And how will the clerks work rather than by law? It says there for five years, you didn't put it, and who's gonna take responsibility? Well, they're not fools to themselves. It's not the rank that's wrong. It's our fault here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44930	Thank you. We have an answer. Here's my colleague Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44931	My colleague, I'll answer that very briefly. With one part of this finding of yours, I agree, but it is obvious that ministers and their assistants and deputies or state secretaries as they are called are changing, and you have a certain structure that hasn't changed for 10, 15, 20 or more years. That's the problem. Certainly for the ultimate ineffectiveness of the work of an institution is the head man, that is clear. And what are his options for making radical moves in this regard and for the real service to work effectively, that's another question. And this case, what you mentioned for three years and five years, is a typical example of bureaucratic approach. I'm not a lawyer, but if somewhere it says it can, it's not the same as being prescribed it has to be. So now we can fight to the Supreme Court for 40 or 50 thousand kuna, unfortunately. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44932	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44933	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, deputy associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here comes one of the laws that may have been discussed more than any other law in this government's term. And the reason is probably clear awareness that we as a state have a serious problem with attracting investment, of course related to this serious problem with the opening of new companies and, of course, the most important problem with the creation of new jobs. All the statistics on investments in Croatia are well known, we have opportunities to listen to them all the time, I believe that fellow Milosevic, who is behind me, will remind us of them in his discussions. But of all the numbers today, the number of unemployed people is clearly saying that the first and basic task of this government is to change that. And in this sense, the adoption of this law is really important and necessary. In this process, of course, it is our responsibility for the representatives to help this law to be as good as possible, as best possible and to meet its objective and purpose. Of course he criticises that we are passing this law because the system and administration don't work the way they should be fully justified. Today, we can, of course, discuss who is to blame, whether he who has built and carefully cherished such a system for 20 years or perhaps this reform government does not implement quickly enough? However, we will not come to a solution and repair the situation that we need to fix urgently. Because the facts are clear, we are a state that is not eligible for investment and by foreign investors, foreign embassies, the government, we have opportunities to keep listening. They have, in fact, counted very precisely all the problems they face and can't skip. It is good that this government has started to listen to these signals, and in this sense I believe that a major step forward was also the adoption of the Investment Encouragement Act and the improvement of the investment environment, which provides for a whole series of measures and incentives, ranging from incentives for micro-enterprises, tax incentives, incentives for job creation to labour-intense projects. Because here's a recent country in the environment, for example. one Slovakia or Serbia had twice as much incentives on certain projects as Croatia had. And of course that took the investors to other locations, not us. This government recognized it and, in that sense, the law that was passed is extremely good. However, problems are not only in incentives, problems are also in our resolution of property-legal relations, disputes in the adoption of urban plans and, of course, long-term and uncertain public procurement procedures. This is what we were talking about today, so I'm inspired to mention, and I talked about it last week when we had amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act on the agenda, a very specific varazdin example where the public procurement process was worth 130 million kuna and potential environmental hazards because it was a well-known case of Varazdin waste that lasted for a full year. And this is because of complaints from the company which was rejected from the first to the last appeal procedure due to lack of legal interest. So a company that has no legal interest can delay whether the investment, whether to solve the problem for a full year. Which will certainly say that we can have the best laws in the world, but if the administration doesn't work in a way that doesn't need to be done. Furthermore, what concerns and concerns potential investors are certainly permanent announcements of changes within the tax system. Every potential investor as one of the most important things they will check before starting investments are taxes. And the constant announcements of tax changes create uncertainty with investors. If we decide to introduce a new tax, if we consider it to be a good and smart moment then we need to prepare it well and then we need to implement it. However, the continued extraction of some new taxes and some new charges as a bogeyman from the drawer is not good and works really in relation to investors one continuous and large damage. But aside from all this, without what we are talking about today and it is an accelerated procedure not even accelerated but regular because in the normal investment environment we now have accelerated deadlines under special laws are normal and realistic deadlines, so without clear and rapid investment procedures will continue to run out. This law solves most of these problems in a good and quality way. The law is well-set and I think that in the woods of our legal regulations and barriers it has managed to find a way that will be resolved quickly and naturally completely legally. And I think that the great challenge in the making of this law was certainly to prepare a quality re-applicable document because we have witnessed too many times in examples when certain legal solutions satisfied the form and were generally in a real life completely inapplicable. Now I would briefly refer to a few key things, or those that have been discussed in this debate and in the debate since January when the law first appeared most discussed. So big investments why only big investments are being helped? Large investments are in no way neglecting the importance and impact of the smaller ones, however, of more significant interest to the state, and this is because of the high investment, the wider impact on economic activity in the country and related and greater employment. Large investments are always bigger or smaller, but they always involve smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs. According to some expert analyses, one large project employee generates as many as 4 to 8 employees as those involved in the project. And, of course, great investment always helps develop infrastructure from transport, municipal, energy, etc. Also, the paper that is extremely important in relation to the first bill is that strategic investments are considered to be all investments greater than 20 million kuna, which are in assisted areas or in islands. As far as the total investment is concerned, however, it is not disputed that both the Government and all institutions must treat all investments and the adoption of this law in no way be a signal to the Government that everything is now settled. The government must continue even faster and even more up-to-date with the systemic changes that ultimately must lead to us one day not having to need this law because the system will function and this should be the goal of this government. The government set up a clear economic concept in its first year of office. For him, in the first year of the term of office of the Ministry of Economy, all the preconditions for realisation were created and a proactive government policy is now indeed expected to realise the plan and all the projects involved in it. Because it must not continue the practice of past governments that our projects stand for a largely vague reason for years. It must not happen to us that a big project like IKEA is 16 years old, that one signature from the Croatian highways waited for 4 months, that the Srdja project stands for 5 years, that projects like Omble stand because someone is playing with environmental studies for months not to say for years, so it will drive away any serious investor or bank who had the intention of supporting it. And there is an important and crucial role for the government to stand behind the projects it has decided on. Certain projects, especially from the energy sector, were part of the plan that led us to the elections. These projects are part of this government's strategy and they must be implemented as such. This is about Croatia at the moment with important projects, and these are projects that carry both industry and our construction sector, and these are projects that carry jobs, and this is how this government should be set up. In this regard, the adoption and implementation of this law should be taken into account. In fact, it's really our last time to start an economy and attract investors. It is good that this law goes in two readings although honestly speaking the procedure since January, and now it will end in September too long. This is an important law, however, well that until the second reading so that all these remarks that were given here could be well considered and some of them could be adopted. We have discussed and heard on the Committee on Economy the remarks concerning additional and unnecessary administration with various certificates, I agree in that part and I think that we need to adopt the experiences of the EU countries and I believe that we will be able to improve that law further. So, in conclusion, with the Investment and Investment Environment Encouragement Act, with the work of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, which works on a concrete principle, with the government's active and determined policy in the realisation of projected projects and, of course, a favourable wind of EU membership, I believe that we can reverse the negative trend and ensure investment and therefore economic growth. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44934	Thank you, too. We've got a lot of replicas. The first reported to Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Martincevic, so I agree greatly with you, but this government has not taken any structural reform that we must stress. This law is not structural reform anyway, there is no dilemma. And the fact that this government hasn't done anything in the past year and a half is the fact that, as you know, we are unfortunately reduced to investment garbage. And as for the cemetery and riots left by the HDZ government, the fact is best spoken of by the two quarters of economic growth in 2011 and minus 2% the result of the current government in 2012 and the fact that, as far as the riots are concerned, we have started and completed negotiations with the European Union, however, this has not been recognised in recent days, but never mind, history does not forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44936	Thank you. We have a reply from colleague Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44937	Well, I knew that a fellow Milosevic would go straight with the numbers, so I would remind myself of the investments and competitiveness of some figures. For example. The figures from 2008 to 2011 when investments in Croatia fell 30% and their share in GDP by an additional 27%, which, of course, speaks enough about how much it was at the time and how it was about HDZ's investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44938	Thank you. Next replica Tomislav Klaric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44939	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's Mrs. Martincevic. She said well that the government was starting to listen. And that in a good and quality way he solves problems. What I can agree with the representative is that we all looked forward to such a law. The only thing good about him is his title. What we can't agree on is that he has criteria, that the criteria are good. Why? Because according to the first criterion, the only one I could respect the moment my associates and I opened it up is good and writes according to the documents of the spatial arrangement. And then we remained found when we saw Article 28 that directly moved the authority of units of local and regional self-government, since local and construction permits and useful permits for such projects were issued without the obligation to adopt such spatial documents. As for the criteria mentioned in the monetary amounts at 150, 75, 20 million kunas, these are not exactly criteria. The criterion in my opinion would be exactly what this Law stipulates that it should contain the Government's decision in that decision where the description of the projects, objectives and impacts... to the economy which such projects will receive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm telling you this from experience, not with the intention of criticizing neither the Government nor this Law, but I don't think this whole Law and I can't agree with you that it's set up the way one of these laws should be to encourage some kind of development. And yet another danger to the great law, on the speaker before me and touched Article 17(2) of the property, the assessment of the court witch to whom, which and how. When we associate with this article that deletes the adoption of spatial order documents, then I read this Law. I'm really scared. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44940	Thank you. We have a reply from colleague Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44941	Well, you've counted a lot of things here now. If you have some good and quality suggestions here is the Law in two readings, you have the opportunity to present them in your debate, you have the opportunity to give them both to the Government and in the form of amendments. And if they're really good and good, I believe the government will adopt them as such. This Law itself, of course, will not attract and encourage economic growth, but it will solve a major problem that we have been facing for a really long number of years, which is that we are a country that has a tremendously large number of administrative barriers, an awful lot of obstacles to investment, and as such we are absolutely unattractive to our and foreign investors. In fact, it is the basis of this Law to amend this very procedure and of course the systematic and structural reforms that need to be implemented are very important that one day this very law would no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44942	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44943	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martincevic, you said that statistics on investment are known, but you did not say that these statistics are extremely negative. In 2011, total foreign investment amounted to almost two billion euros and in 2012, only 300 million euros. And this government, the Kukuriku government told the government when she came to the government to have a vision, to have a strategy and to have good intentions. And these extremely poor results that I'm not talking about economic activity show that the vision didn't come true, that there are no strategies and maybe they're just good intentions. Because the strategy was to invest in public enterprises and to make the main investment project holders public enterprises, which is why even 30% of the electricity prices have been collected once. To this day, the same minister would impose a cost of electricity. Of course, it takes investment law, but not the strategic investment project law. There must be no law discriminatory law, and this one indeed is. What are the benefits of the big ones compared to the little ones? We need investments, not just strategic projects. It is therefore necessary to have a general Investment Act, in particular on investments in production activities. Because we can't fall into a trap, because there's a trap that some investment projects that can open jobs, new jobs actually close existing jobs. And Croatia needs new jobs without the closure of existing jobs and most of the projects so far have been because it avoids investment in production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44944	Thank you, too. We have an answer, colleague Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44945	Well, I didn't mention the statistics because I was pretty sure that you HDZ Club were gonna count them all closely. Of course, the numbers aren't good, and that's exactly why we're passing this law. This Law, along with all the other measures and legal solutions already proposed by this government, should ultimately produce results and should encourage both domestic and foreign investors to come more and better invest in Croatia. And as for the price of the energy that you mentioned, in my debate, and I called on the government to invest in the production capacity to be more up-to-date and more active because in fact only our production capacities can, in fact, get us into a situation so that we can actually manage prices realistically. With imports of course we can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44946	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44947	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Martincevic, you say we are passing this law among other things because of the ineffectiveness of the state administration and its administration. I believe that you thought that because of this ineffectiveness or unhappiness it wasn't the civil servants, but probably according to yours, when we go to this law, bad laws. But then I wonder how the government has failed to change only 16 laws over the past 18 months because the assessment of the situation contains a number of laws and decisions that, due to their administrative barriers, prevent fast investment in Croatia. It seems to me, therefore, that there was enough time to amend these several laws instead of passing one law that behaves like an elephant in a glass mill in Croatia, breaking all the laws that were built, which were made, and instead of that law, it was better to enter into the amendments to these laws that were numbered. At least that's what I think. And if the government is already doing a law that is short, has no more than 30 articles, it wasn't very complicated to write, then I am even more disappointed by the fact that even in such a short law we have some articles that are in contradiction with each other, and that's what we're talking about when we're talking about spatial order. But especially if you can explain to me or someone from the government what the poet wanted to say in Article 11(8), here's what interests me. Namely, he says he is the head of the task force for private projects or Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, who is Minister of Economy or Mr. Damir Novinic, who is the representative of the state agency responsible for investment, and Mr. Vrdoljak Ivan and Mr. Damir Novinic are still in charge of public projects. What the government is trying to say about this is the Ministry, I really don't know. What is the message of this article and this paragraph, so here if the Government can tell us what she really meant by this sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44948	Thank you. We have a reply from my colleague Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44949	So here's when you talk about a system that doesn't work, it's exactly a system that's been built and created and done for 20 years, and maybe 18 months really isn't enough to change the whole system from law to administration and bureaucracy in a good way. I also said in my debate that this law certainly does not solve things, but now it is a way in which we can quickly and quality solve problems for investment to be stimulated, but with systematic and structural forms we must certainly continue to do so much faster and much more up-to-date than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44950	Thank you. Next replica, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44951	My colleague Martincevic, it was really good to hear that part of your debate in which you warned that the uncertainty of the tax system, therefore a frequent change in the tax system is one of the reasons both domestic and foreign investors point out as an obstacle to stronger investment in Croatia, but this is probably a continuation of the tension between HNS and Minister Linic, so it would be good to resolve that part within the coalition. However, in your debate, you left out two parts of the law that are really the most important. Article 5(2), which defines the conditions under which private investment can also acquire the character of a strategic project and teaching on Article 17, when such a private project receives the importance of a strategic project without competition, without public and transparent criteria and conditions of government by its decision to a private investor, and beyond Article 52. The Constitution in ownership can transfer forests, forest land, agricultural land, public roads, maritime well-being. This is the essence of the problem when we talk about the sustainability of such a law in the context of the Parliament's responsibility for respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, what do you think this law that is discriminatory against small investments does not open up a new Pandora's box, a new point of corruption risk in this country when 11 people decide on whose or which project meets the criteria to be included in the strategic project category.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44952	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44953	Well, I'm gonna look back on maybe just this last piece of private investors. We need private investors, we need investment in the public sector, but they are always limited and limited. We need a stronger flow of private capital, domestic capital, private foreign capital. And as for what you've been saying about the protection of our goods, etc., I think it's very well regulated in this law and that in fact all the legal solutions that are already in existence are not in breach of this law. But I would only give an example if we were to think about all the projects that way, about all the investments we're doing, for example. We'd never have highways. If we hadn't had the Law on Exclusion and we didn't have a complicated legal regulation then we wouldn't have ruined 600 million kuna investments because of someone who decided not to sell or blackmailed with an extremely high price of their land and never had finished highways. So we have to think about how investments are realized, and not in all possible ways and variants of how to block them and how to fence ourselves with 100 fuses because they... will never be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44954	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Martincevic, you said the system was bad, so we'll settle it with this law. After that, you said some things that I agree with that this law certainly won't start investments and that it can't be expected of it. I don't think this law will solve a bureaucratic system that's slow and trom, where the balls are transferred who's to blame for such a system. I don't know who's to blame for this system, all it knows is that it doesn't work, and it's known that it's now more dysfunctional than it's ever been. In this year and a half, it's all about, the simple system doesn't work at all, and what was before it was slow where some civil servants could be reached, the officials now can't do it anymore. This is a law that is even more centralized and further remote from local self-government and from people. And what I find in this law is, in fact, one thought that this is not the Strategic Investments Act, but the Styria Investments, it could be called that. And you don't believe that what's in Article 14 when you talk about the speed of problem solving will be dealt with faster because it's written in this law, and there the appeal procedures will be resolved from the area of public procurement. So it's going to be considered an emergency. What does that mean? That these few people who are in this Board of Appeals for Public Procurement will be able to solve something more quickly because they are already so choked and we haven't ensured that it works better. I don't think anything's gonna happen to the good in this part. Unfortunately, I would like it to happen and it seems to me that this law is being passed just to distract the public from being incompetent to the Kukuriku Government who definitely doesn't know where to go anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44956	Thank you. We have a reply from my colleague Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44957	I don't know, you may not have listened to my argument carefully enough, but I specifically warned the government that by passing this law, we must not be considered to have done something important and serious right now. I said, however, that with systematic and structural reforms, it must continue even faster, even more up-to-date because it is actually the only way to actually achieve a truly full and real improvement in the functioning of the system. And anyway, I still said it would be very good if we could get this system sorted out in a way that we wouldn't need this law anymore. And as for now part of the local self-government, I think that even in these large investments and large projects, large funds will actually be much better and it will be even more transparent to do so within the government, not at 50 or 100 or more places in local self-government units where various local officials could indeed choose independently on projects that are truly strategic and significant for the whole country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44958	Thank you. Next replica Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44959	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Martincevic, you said in your debate that this law was well set up. It is hardly possible to say about a law that wants to avoid the public's opinion and attitude that it is well set up, and that is exactly what this law is about. Because Article 28, where detailed arrangements and urban planning are actually avoided, the opinion and attitude of the public and citizens on the strategic investments involved. What does that mean? This means that it is those citizens whose life will be affected by a certain investment that will not be given the right to give their opinion. Recently, there was a similar case in the European Court of Justice. A single investment was also referred to as a strategic investment in Slovakia. You know how that case ended? By order of the European Court of Justice to amend the legislation to Slovakia and just to involve the public, which means citizens in each part of the process of making any decision on strategic investments that will significantly affect their lives. This is about avoidance of the public, avoidance of opinions, critical opinions of citizens whose lives will be crucially affected by such an investment. This is Article 28. Article 13 concerning an agreement with a private partner does not speak at all about the obligation to make the agreement public. So there is no public perception of what this agreement with a private investor looks like and what it contains is that I do not speak other articles in which it has already been said by my predecessors. In any case, I believe this is indeed a discriminatory law that will certainly fall on other instances. I am sure that if you accept it in this form, and you probably will, according to your clubs, then it will indeed be a law that will have serious consequences for the Republic of Croatia's system and, above all, on the critical opinion of the citizens, which is truly devastating in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44960	Thank you. Answer, colleague Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44961	Well, the goal of this law is to fix what's not right, to fix what all investors are warning us about, to speed up the procedure. I really didn't understand what you're trying to say about public involvement from this debate. So maybe here's to Srđ for every investment we discuss a public referendum, so that every investment and planning lasts from five to ten years at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44962	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44963	Thank you very much. Comrade Martincevic, you said you should remove the administrative barriers. Okay. We all agree with that, but let's just ask ourselves if this is the law we're removing administrative barriers. So you realized that the system didn't work. With this law, we don't put it in order for the system to work. However, we appoint new administrative bodies and they will be administered. But what's the biggest problem is we're opening up a space for major irregularities. Therefore, Articles 17 and 28 are key in this law. These other articles could have been counted in one way or another. However, the sale of land without public procurement, without public procurement, non-defined as much as you can buy. So why didn't we pass the law, the minister said, you said so too. Well, here's how. And that you can't buy more than one third of the plot without a public tender. So if you have two-thirds missing one-third to form that plot, let's say that's one-third. But you can't if you have one tenth of nine tenths to buy in a public tender. So, is that one third or anything, but let's define how much it is, and without definition, anything can happen. And Article 28 where you rule out local self-government units is just ridiculous. So who's more interested than the local self-government units to open up some kind of drive or something on their territory, to hire people, to have income from a municipal fee, to have income from a communal contribution. I'd like to see which mayor and captain would be so stupid they wouldn't accept it. But the other pair of shoes is if you impose something on him that the local self-government unit disagrees with. So that's the point of this story. 'Cause look at what's at the end of what's... Do you think this law will solve the problem of Omble and Plomina? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He won't. Therefore, these are major strategic investments. You don't handle them with these laws. So the first step law falls because it does not solve the two strategic investments of this Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44964	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44965	So I think the units of local self-government are represented, they'll have their own representatives in the commission. That's the first one. And how well they decide the units of local self-government you have in exactly the example I cited, an example of the IKEA that lasted 16 years. And there are a number of such examples throughout Croatia where investments stand precisely because some local leader, the official, has some kind of rules to implement investments. I think it is also too important for the Republic of Croatia and that this is precisely why this was done to go only for large investments and to be taken care of by the Government and the Commission in which units of local self-government will be represented.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44966	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDZ Representatives Club Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44967	I was in Berlin a few weeks ago, so I talked to a German investor like that, so a man asks me if you know what ABC means? Well, I said I don't know. He says anything but Croatia or Croatia abc everything just don't invest in Croatia. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, I think if there was a law that would prescribe that we would achieve economic growth, new investment and employment, I am sure that, regardless of the political party's membership in this assembly, they would raise their hands for such a law. However, such a law does not exist, unfortunately, or perhaps it does not exist. As in life, shortcuts usually end up breaking a man's head. Now I think this law is really important enough to talk about it openly. It should, therefore, be said before that it is not so open to say that this law is a shortcut. A shortcut, however, only for large investors, so more than 150 million kunas, or of course in specific areas 20 etc. now that I do not state all this together, however what has been systematically not seemed for a year and a half or it seems exactly the opposite is that it does not support the strengthening of the entrepreneurial and investment climate in the Republic of Croatia and therefore the results that we have. So the first quarter of this year we had an economic downturn of 1.5%. It's 15% higher economic downturn than in the first quarter of 2012. The latest data from the Bureau of Statistics says industrial production dropped 5.5% in May. No, 5.3% I apologize, and the number of employees in the industry in Croatia dropped by 5.5% in those years. I think it's wise enough. It further states that the processing industry recorded a 10% decline in May 2013 compared to 2012. 10% per year, however, the total industry fell under quotes very cynically "5.5%". That's what she contributed to, says electricity, gas and steam supply, which grew by 29%. We know why it grew. Not because it was actually produced more. Because there are no investments in Croatian energy. At the same time, however, the decline in the number of employees in the same sector is 10%. I think it is wise enough and it is quite clear that there is no Arab spring and that there is no growth of Croatian tourism today in Croatia would be after a year and a half of this government and the government of the IMF and probably all the support from the EU thank God that we finally entered it. Construction works in April 2013 compared to 2012 collapsed, according to 8.5%. Some constantly and continuously suggest some recovery, I don't know on what grounds. On all competitiveness tables, this government, particularly the Greek Vice President, likes to call for the World Bank's doing business, in the past year we have fallen four places. Now let me just tell you a few very interesting data that unfortunately are not being solved systematically by this law. For example, out of 185 countries on that table doing the World Bank business says by obtaining construction permits we are 143 places on an earth globe of 185. Or, say, investor protection 139 places. I don't think there's anything else to say. So let's go back to today's law. I don't think we should doubt at all that Croatia needs to speed up the procedures and issue all the permits, but such a law should certainly contain this is a time limit and that time limit that will necessarily oblige this government to really deal with the systematic improvement of the business, entrepreneurial investment climate, and not that it's exactly the opposite of what we've been witnessing for the past year and a half. I have said many times in this Croatian Parliament that this government obviously did not have the courage to continue the HDZ action plan to remove obstacles to investors, I will repeat it today. So if you want a law like this, then it's crucial for all those who don't have 150 million kunas to finally continue to implement an action plan to remove obstacles to investors, everyone. To those for 100,000 kunas and billions of kunas. And the prerequisite for this is, of course, that you systematically recognise the obstacles contained in today's laws and sublaws. However, it does not seem that, in the past year and a half, new legal solutions and tax press have just been passed, which rejects not only foreign investors but what is much more dangerous since we are today, in fact, from the day before yesterday, an EU member, and that is that domestic investors are literally forced to leave the Republic of Croatia. Now I think, personally, I've talked about it on many occasions, that the name itself is actually wrong. The strategic investment law, i.e. now is no longer referred to as strategic investments, rather than strategic investment projects. The prerequisite for that is that you have a strategy. Now, unfortunately, we've all seen in this year and a half that this government has no economic strategy, let alone a vision. Therefore, no strategy can be talked about and even less about strategic projects. This government has given up the most important strategic project for this country, and this is the lowline new route of Rijeka-Zagreb. It's the only strategic investment project our entire country can put on a map around the world. To put Luka Rijeka in full function and then really attract serious foreign investors to come to invest in Croatia not only in infrastructure and logistics, which is an obvious advantage given the geographical position but also in the industry not to raise the issue of tourism again. I have no dilemma that tourism is of particular importance at all, but we know how they ended up in the past and still continuing economic crisis in the Mediterranean that depend exclusively on tourism, I will not name them at all. So there's no vision no strategy but there's a lot of improvisation. So we see actually improvisation, and in this case, given that six months ago, the hills were shaking from the strategic investment law, and then the European Commission and we here in the Parliament had a whole series of objections. When you look at today's law and the former law, the two laws actually have nothing to do with it, 90% of it has been changed, but then the bill went into emergency procedure and the public debate would take 10 days. Six months later we go to the first reading, which I welcome to go to the first reading. But all I'm stressing is what is the level of non-disclosure and improvisation over the past year, a year and a half of the current government. Let’s just say a few sentences about specific comments on individual articles that should be significantly improved in any case, and let’s say that I already mentioned something special about these foreign investors, when for example. General Electric will remind you of all General Electric's largest industrial company in the world in 2011 was one of its representatives, the company's high representative, one of the panelists at the government's Investment International Forum in late 2011. And clearly, people have shown interest in investing in the Republic of Croatia. Of course no one talked to them, so nothing's going on. However, when General Electric or someone from the administration reads this law and sees that it is necessary to deliver bon 1 and bon 2 or when it is necessary to provide a certificate of impunity or says that I will now find it, so there is one paragraph of Article 8 which says well, perhaps in some countries there is no such one proof, but in that case, the President of the Administration is likely that the General Electric should deliver a special statement and that is not more than 30 days old to prove it. I think we should get serious if we really want some serious foreign investors, I stress and keep domestic Croatian investors from leaving Croatia, we should think differently and decide what we really want. As for my colleague Martincevic, she said that I would mention, in any case, that I would mention, of course... projects that were ready and that today are not happening, so Zagreb Airport, the agreement was signed a year ago and 4 months ago, if I am not mistaken, there is nothing there. As far as French investor Brijuni Riviera is concerned, no one mentions it any more, the tide went off for a year and a half, and there's no telling what's going to happen. As far as I can tell, some foreign investors specifically from South Korea no longer want to participate in the competition. I think it's all together that they're not good messages, and at least they're good messages and status at the moment we joined the EU. So if in the next year, we don't take advantage of this moment of EU entry and even by attracting foreign investment of serious foreign investments, not speculators in Greenfield investment, which is, first of all, good for this law, then we're going to miss out on the next 10 or 20 years. One more thing about concrete articles in this law, for example Article 11.8 which I think of several places and this is one of the key evidence significantly distinguishes private and public investors or investment. So does that make sense to say the famous article 7th in the law, which is that one rule applies to public investors and the other to private investors? Well, I don't think that's the same message we want to send. So points 3 to 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So why? I don't understand that. So if we want and swear that private investment is necessary in the Republic of Croatia then we cannot discredit or make the difference between private and public investments, the more that is, in fact, well-to-do public-private projects such as. Project Plomin. So I am really calling here first of all, and it is good that in the first reading it is that we are seriously talking and we are thinking about what can be achieved by law like this, and that positive changes are taking place in Croatia, but I stress it is necessary to deal with the systematic improvement of the investment special climate, to recognise the laws or errors in the law and sublegal acts that prevent both small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs, if you want craftsmen, all can normally, within the appropriate deadlines that should be effective in carrying out their investments. Unfortunately, what needs to be highlighted here once again, which is why politics has been the current government for the past year and a half has reduced our rating to the level of investment junk. This is particularly a problem at the time of globalisation when all serious investors look primarily at figures like this and why Croatia is classified investment at the level of garbage and let me repeat it again because it is worrying where we would have been if there were no Arab Spring and that Croatian tourism does not deliver good results. I don't know the number of unemployed would probably be 400 grand or 370 grand today. And like this, with the growth of Croatian tourism, I'm afraid that this summer around 40,000 people will be less employed than in 2011. Does anyone think that's not the result of this government's "economic policy"? Well, of course it is. That's what we've been talking about for the past year and a half and we'll keep talking. But here's to bringing this debate to an end. Col. Shuker was already talking about Article 17, there are some other undefined articles that need to be fixed in any case, but what needs to be established at this time and thank God that it is, and HDZ has started and completed negotiations to join the EU, the only stabilising factor for the Croatian economy and for attracting foreign investors, and if God also gives the preservation of Croatian businesses and Croatian jobs in the Republic of Croatia and just entering the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44968	Thank you, too. We have two, four, six, ten replicas reported. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44969	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, you were talking about a German bizmist telling you anything but Croatia. So nothing from Croatia, nothing in Croatia. But I think these sayings or abbreviations you've said have a different side. Namely, it's closely related to both IMT or IMT. Is there me? So, those who negotiate locally, either at the state level very often use perhaps in some other form, not quite this directly whether I'm there when it comes to investment and then investment stands. So, it's like a factory in Belgrade of IMT tractors. But what I wanted to say other than this keybinding you used is that, as a resolution minister, you had your plan, a deal about investing 14 billion investments in construction and infrastructure, energy, water economy, transport and other infrastructure. Which is because it was 2010. ... The 11th of March we know well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's actually nothing. The continuation of politics to the Kukuriku coalition is actually the same, exactly the same. And here we are, in fact, three to four years, we haven't been able to make it in that investment policy at all. The law that's here before us won't solve it. It's just a form and it's talking about a big, so-called. big investors. A large investor has big money, if he wants to invest 20 million euros, so a large investment brings us both the most likely entry into Croatia's forests and Croatia's water and agricultural land, they so-called Large So-called multinational companies. [[Intruder: Time.]] So what's going to happen... The Law on Agricultural Land and the Croatian Forests and Croatian Waters will be seen if this Law is adopted, which it probably wants on Friday when the vote is held. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44970	Thanks, buddy. We have a response to the replica of his fellow Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44971	Yeah, I really don't have a need or a desire to defend myself for 2011. In fact, today there is not a single project that was not prepared in 2011 in a higher or lower level of completeness than the airport of Zagreb, which was completed, so Luke Rijeka, which started building in 2011, and the same Luke Rijeka where foreign investors are, will not name them here in 16 countries have 23 ports. Seaports. So, you'll agree to a serious investor who has a 30-year concession, calculated that this is a serious state where one government puts on its list of strategic projects a low-level river-Zagreb new route that this applies to each of the following, that is not the case, of course. But here's what people know, about some other projects I'm here, I mentioned here, I won't mention them. However, do not talk about deals and do not speak in the Croatian Assembly of IMT because it is a bad message to all employers, entrepreneurs, investors. In our country, there are serious services that need to be dealt with and investigated in such cases, and we here need to talk about how we will really improve the entrepreneurial, investment climate. So let us finally let the institutions of this country deal with these things and the public administration to finally start improving their own, above all their position to become positive towards entrepreneurs and investors, which is unfortunately not the case today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44972	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Milosevic, imagine what will happen when you put together the provisions of articles that are so little scattered, we can move from top to bottom, so 28., 27. paragraph 2 of Article 18(1) and Article 17. So with these two articles, the local self-government units completely shut down the whole story when someone else's doing it. The second thing, even in Article 27(2), is that any right has been taken to the units of local self-government to issue building permits. However, particularly interesting article 17. To give unlimited opportunity to turn agricultural and forest land into some plot on which something is to be built, it does not define that what size it is, do not undertake to conduct a public tender and have a completely unclear price. Because you, when you have agricultural and forest land, especially, so no matter what part of Croatia, it is in itself until the spatial plan is defined almost worth nothing because it is practically neither sold nor can be sold... establish any economic activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, this market value provision falls into the water. By what criteria, by which parameters the court expert will evaluate, according to those future parameters, that there will be some kind of factory and logical thing that this land will then be worth a terrible lot and that it will probably also be required to form certain parcels there tomorrow. Therefore, in this Article 17, it should be clearly defined to which... Part of the total surface can be done in a case without a public competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also clearer to define what is the price at which it can be sold. Because I repeat, the only ones who want to do something there are the only ones who are interested in local self-government and this is all just administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44974	Thank you. We have an answer. A fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44975	Well, I agree with my colleague Shuker with your remarks. It is certain that many of these articles need to be completed, and it is good that this is the first reading. However, I must bring something quite personal here. And that was about 11 months I was literally lying down and waking up with ideas of how to help individual investors, bigger or smaller in certain places in Croatia. And quite, unfortunately, not everyone in this country looks equally positive and employers, entrepreneurs and investors. There are light examples at the level of local self-government and there are catastrophic examples when something for any reason does not want to be done. So I can't say that there's no reason where you should simply take matters into your own hands if you want to do something. I won't mention countless projects, they've been in Croatian media for the past few years. The fact is that all of us must be above political interest at least when it comes to private projects, that these private projects in Croatia must happen within a reasonable period and without any corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44976	Thank you. Otherwise, there is a methodology to determine the value of forests and forest land. Next replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44977	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you've brought forth a series of facts but unfortunately there are two minutes, of course not all of them can be replicated, so I'm only going to point out two. The shortcuts to break our heads are this law, there's no strategy. So what we are doing here on a proposal from the government or clubs rather than creating conditions, better, better regulation so that better investment, competitiveness and development in Croatia can develop. Well, that's our job, but it's not called shortcuts, it's called the legislation harmonised at the moment and future with the regulation of the European Union. No strategy. So I hope you've missed the preparation to look at a little bit of what's a spatial plan. The spatial plan defines the space use strategy in the long term. The spatial plan defines and determines, directs certain activities, defines the criteria in which these activities will be developed in a given space, especially by county, regional and local self-government. Therefore, local units of the county are those that define both the activities and the purpose of space, and this law only ensures that it can be implemented within certain deadlines, and deadlines and failures so far have affected that we were primarily uncompetitive, regardless of the positive examples of certain local self-government and counties. It has shown experience that we are not competitive and that this law needs to be introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44978	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44979	Dear colleague, you may not have heard me correctly. So, yes, this law is a shortcut, which we need to be aware of. This law in order to be a shortcut clearly introduces discrimination. Discrimination if you do not have an investment greater than 150 million kuna and invest all your money in the City of Zagreb area, which is why you will have to have an investment of more than 150 million kuna, it is a prerequisite for beginning to come to that list at all. I'm not sure since this is structured, I didn't mention the People's Newspaper. Imagine when a serious investor comes along with a serious project and someone in the National Journal will read the details of his project. That's ridiculous. But yes, but even when you get into school or college, you're also discriminated against, says the first 100 best ones there for that and that score. But I wasn't talking about it, I was talking about a key, a year and a half of the current government is running this country. What did he do that this law doesn't even need? Nothing. Nothing, except tax repression, which refuses any and Croatian investors to seriously consider further investments, do not give God in producing into our country that entered the European Union the day before yesterday, thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44980	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Milosevic, the real question is how many projects in the Republic of Croatia that can be considered strategically in line with this law are waiting for realisation and how many such projects are waiting for realization for the reason that in Croatia are bad laws... /Falali part of the phonogram due to the fall of the system. Before the debate itself, the government should have introduced us to that. What this law does is primarily derogates the role of the unit of local self-government that's one thing. And another thing, it derogates in Croatia a system of spatial planning. It turns out according to this law that spatial plans are detailed arrangements and urban arrangements that are the biggest obstacle to investment in Croatia. I disagree with that, because it is precisely in the interest of the investor that there is one detailed plan of arrangements because he will know where his roads are and whether his water supply is solved there and how it will be resolved if it is not. Has his drain system been solved? Is his power supply cleared? So with that spatial plan, that document of spatial order will know everything. And he's going to have to make that spatial plan eventually before he starts realising his project, therefore his investment. Therefore, if we want to help and raise the level of investment climate in Croatia, we must firstly resolve property-legislative relations. That's what I keep saying to solve the cadastre and the land book. It's the first thing and the second thing to bring the spatial plans right where they weren't brought in so the investor would come and have it solved. And then, based on the current law that we're calling all in 45 days, it's an existing law, it's going to get it all, and not this way, we're calling on him to destroy those laws that help him start, and then what we're telling him now is that he doesn't need it, it's going to be an obstacle when he gets a possible building permit. Because he's going to have to solve everything he has to deal with right now. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44982	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of fellow Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44983	Yes, I agree with my colleague Bacic. I've been told that about thirty projects if I'm not mistaken there are people who satisfy the essence, so strategically. However, the next issue is being opened. So, is the 300 million kuna shopping mall a strategic project for the Republic of Croatia. I think everyone normal will say of course not. However, after everything the current government has done over the past year and a half and this shopping mall has become strategic because the builders are all together in front of bankruptcy, because there is nothing, because everything that could and could be the best example for you is Zagreb Airport. So someone thinks the French were having a little fun so they put an offer on a 250m-euro tender for a new airport concession? Well, no. But I keep stressing the issue is business, entrepreneurial, investment climates in the Republic of Croatia and perception in the ultimate line of our entire market which is not great but has potential, but not in this way in which this government is trying to achieve it. I'm not talking about this law right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44984	Thank you. Next replica Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44985	The Honorable Chairman, I must replicate since Mr Milosevic mentioned a straight line he gave up on or did not give up on. Only an example of this railway shows that the government is not considering strategic projects or project implementation. In 2011, the government conducted a traffic integrated study costing 8 and a half million kuna. It was also funded by the Primorje-Gorski County, the City of Rijeka and the state. This traffic-integral study has determined the course of this railroad. All units of local self-government had to use a path to coordinate their spatial plans in the Primorje-Gorski County, invested several million kunas, and now this government is saying we're not going to work that route, but we're going to dig a tunnel from Delnica to Zlobin. The essence of this law and what we're talking about is neither the IKEA that's been mentioned so many times, but neither General Electric nor I know what kind of mall. The point of this is the basic task of the state, the unit of local self-government and regional self-government to create a prerequisite for the start-up of construction in the economic sense of the company. This is what I'm saying from my example. And we have to stick to something that's been going on in this whole thing. In a few years, we have opened over 2,000 jobs with 20 of our investments, and that is why, because on the basis of the foundations that someone had created before us, we have continued to build our vision and develop a strategy. There's something that's been canceled here, something that's been prepared before, and it's moving something over and over again. And for this very reason I am telling Mr Milosevic and all of you that this law is dangerous because too much power is given in the hands of too few people who can make key decisions especially in spatial planning, especially in the assignment of land. And if they're strategic investments, malls, I don't know what kind of companies Then we're not talking about this country's strategic investment. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44986	Thank you. We have an answer from a fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44987	Well, colleague Klaric, the fact is one, and that's what I've personally heard several times over the past few years of commendation on your account, i.e. actually copper, so that's where it happens, that's a positive example. Unfortunately, we do not have as I have already said in Croatia and everywhere such positive examples as is exactly where you are the mayor, the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44988	Next replica Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44989	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Milosevic, you said in your debate that tourism brings us results. I'm going to change that a little bit, so I'm going to say that tourism has been bringing us results because when we look at the situation only for the past six months and the beginning of the seventh month, the state of booking and destinations, the number of tourists is measured by minuses in two digits today almost on the entire Adriatic. It shows ability or incompetence. We weren't able to find a way to get 100,000 Russians. Let's see what our state of affairs is then Istria's tourism. When you drive only from Rijeka to Senj, when you drive on a buffered white road in the 21st century, there is no coordination between those bodies that are responsible for the implementation of some infrastructure projects, no one is against it but to welcome 15th of July that someone who comes to our guests is driving such roads is a disaster for Croatian tourism and leaves the consequences for the long term. You were talking about a low-level railway, the prime minister himself said that it was low-level, but that it had now become mountain-lower or mountain valley because in one part it would only be a slightly reconstructed track, and that perhaps something in some future would be added. That maybe there'll be two tapes. It is an insecure approach, as is this law itself, which is pure improvisation and recognition that the government within the cabinet, which is the 20-nation ministry cannot bring into order all civil servants and that something has done is necessary to degrade 15-acre laws and take all of this into some small groups in order to possibly change something. And you're interpreting all the time that something structural is happening, that we're in reform, etc., basically just a system of shortcuts without any results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44990	Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44991	Well, just for a little while. So, I mentioned Arab spring, we should all ask ourselves here together and that's what when the Germans start again in a few years in Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt and some other markets?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44992	Their choice. Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44993	Thank you very much. You said your colleague Milosevic could not be a strategic project to build a shopping centre. Of course, for one obvious economic reason, spending in Croatia is limited, it is limited. The available income is limited. Only investments in production, especially in production that will be directed towards exports, can be of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. But that the only criterion of 150 million kuna is to consider someone a strategic project can only result from the misunderstanding of the situation in Croatia. Based on what analysis and quantitative and qualitative, what methodology did 150 million kuna occur? There's not a word about it in this bill. But there are these vague general standards that create only room for manipulation. It is undeniable that there are obstacles to investors in Croatia, and it is undeniable that this bill does not remove those obstacles. It is more socially desirable, economically more efficient and competitive to have 100 investors per million and a half kuna than one investor of 150 million kuna. And the law even discriminates on what's more socially justified than what's socially unfair. I feel that this law is written not for individuals but for several individuals and that it does not care about the situation in Croatia as it is known that obstacles in Croatia are a lack of infrastructure and protection of ownership. It is not removed, and we have placed these obstacles as scarecrows and money is known to be like a timid deer and flee when it comes to scarecrows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44994	Thank you. Do we have an answer? We don't have an answer, thank you. Next line, Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Milosevic, of course you mentioned many things, among other things, the multiple investment climate and, of course, you also concluded that the Investment Law would be needed, which I absolutely agree with. But, of course, not such a disfigured law, I would say, the bottom line is down. You have cited several examples of some crazy obligations that a potential investor will have to respect under this law. For example, Article 8 and its five entries are indeed a classic example of how the administration can even imagine and think about its own role and purpose of existence. So, for example, paragraph 1 states that it will not be possible to declare itself by a strategic project the project whose authorised person is legally convicted for some misdemeanors. So where is this person supposed to be? A powerful person, that's a dozen things to be mentioned. Or imagine what will happen if someone, which writes in paragraph 4, at the Ministry of Economy or where it already raises doubts about the truthfulness of the data contained in documents or statements by an economic operator, and then in order to obtain information about a situation whose situation, which is and which is sought in another country by a competent authority to explain the situation to him. This is a law on preventing investment or preserving flows of revolution before strategic investment. And it's fortunate that you can make investments beyond this law because who's going crazy under this law to go into any investment operation in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44996	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44997	Well, yes, I agree with my fellow Drinker. That's what I was talking about on behalf of the club, and that's the key problem, actually, is that if you want to declare something a strategic investment, and then it's probably the responsibility of the government, or the public administration, and we have different services to institutions that are involved, is this someone speculant, a serious investor. So even these articles should be completely deleted because they are completely pointless, unnecessary. If you want to send a positive message. And we agreed that it was probably the key to all of this, that we all wanted to send a positive message together. I'm stressing all the time and I'm going to say again not only to foreign investors, I've been repeating for years, I've talked about it actually before I got into politics. Now that we have entered the EU believe me under the pressure of competition many Croatian entrepreneurs will be forced to leave the Republic of Croatia. I spoke publicly about a few of my friends doing so over the past few years. Is there anything worse for a country that a new young generation of entrepreneurs is leaving the country? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44998	The next replica is Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u44999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard in two minutes to sum up the future here and by the number of replicas a dozen, and most of the HDZ club actually says how much of that should be contradicted. You spent most of your debate on fellow Milosevic, as you have usually spent over the last year and a half days and negative results in those years and you know well that the economy cannot turn its back on its magic stick overnight and that, unfortunately, as the only country and Greece, five years in the overall trend of GDP declines, so the total GDP of 10% and 30% falls in investments in 2008-2011 alone. I often use in this assembly the paradigm of that tanker that when you pull the brake takes a certain time, whether it's a year, two, three given the difficult circumstances we'll see about it, but that the real trend is certain. Another permanent dilemma also tax repression that or not it is actually cleaning order on the market, we are constantly saying that these are new taxes that have been adopted or are not or is paying taxes is an unusual situation for an equal match, what the government appreciates and that is exactly the main asset for this... business path and the positive investment climate that we are all looking for together. You have shown grief that the new Kukuriku government has not accepted the i.e. continued, extended with the HDZ Action Plan, Mr Milosevic often spoke to me in the government for 11 months, etc. The HZD has been in power since 2003, so these action plans should be implemented in those 8 or 9 years in power, and as much as it speaks about efficiency around this government, the best talks about the IKEA market centre itself, which, for 5, 6 or 7 years, has waited for that administration to solve the matter. And lastly, the Zagreb-Rijeka railway definitely did not give up on the Zagreb-Rijeka project of modernisation, but what is the difference between this and the last government that within the existing means we can do something or we cannot do but not fly like geese in the fog. Only HAC 30 billion and the problems that are now coming up are enough topics. Unfortunately, I didn't make it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45000	Thank you. We have an answer from a fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45001	Dear fellow Radjenovic, yes, but I have no problem talking about all eight years. I remember well I was away from politics when the rates of growth during the HDZ government were over 5%. Yes, in 2009, or at the end of 2008, the whole of the EU has been fuelled by a global crisis, a serious crisis, the largest since 1930, with no dilemma. The numbers don't lie, look at the facts. But yes, I won't stop talking about the key fact, which is that 2011 clearly says statistics crisis stopped. You've had two quarters of economic growth. It's also a technical exit from the recession. Only the wrong economic moves of the current government brought us back to recession. It's simple. And as for cleaning and introducing order, I think the absolute best line from your government's former vice-president for the economy and your coalition partner, hopefully still on the line, and that's just in the morgue the government is in perfect order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45002	And the last replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a fellow Milosevic from your rhetoric would be able to conclude that only this government is guilty of the recession we're in. From your rhetoric it would be concluded that here is a colleague Grubisic mentioned that institute if there was me, that it was a business legacy exclusively of this government, exclusively of this set. I will refer to my colleague Radjenović here and say look a little further into the past, look at what bureaucratic obstacles you have left to our investors, just you. And what counterpart Radenovic said in a year, miracles cannot be achieved. We want to talk about the problems of starting a company, you're talking about tax discharge, so I'll tell you how many parafiscal duties our entrepreneurs had. Everyone in entrepreneurship knows that you want to contribute to chambers, to forests, to water, and not to list further what you have to pay for. At least this government has made some steps to end these things. Then from that ridiculous thing that farmers must be members of two chambers at the same time, they have to pay double taxes parafiscal as far as the chamber is concerned. It is not true that there is only one unit of local self-government where there is a bright example of investment. There are more of them, but I'm afraid they're more exceptions to the rules, and the rule is that there's a lot of things that haven't been done right and that's not the legacy of what was done in a year but that's the legacy of continuous work or work if you want to do it for many years. And in the end you're talking about order, well, dear fellow your government has allowed certain entrepreneurs to have millions in taxes and that your government has remained I believe that no one would even ask them to pay them. It's the introduction of order. Equal rules for all and entrepreneurial and investment climates in which all can function equally and according to certain rules that apply to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45004	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45005	Dear denominator, which is why your government writes them off, right, logically. We allowed debt to exist. I'll tell you every reasonable one when it comes to debt, every reasonable one when he has a claim, then he won't kill the one he owes him because he hopes to charge, and your government systematically that we don't have time to kill the one who's supposed to pay off the debt. We don't have time for that right now, I'm talking to you. Talk to the entrepreneurs outside these doors. So I think there's no dilemma which was better and when it was better, when the citizens had this country's better purchasing power in 2011 or 2013, so that's what statistics show you. When were real wages higher in 2011 or 2013? What are we going to talk about in '47, about '93?? Take the last few years, yes, the crisis is no one escapes that is not a crisis and today some of the European Union are in crisis. So your prime minister says our exit from the crisis depends on Italy, so let's get serious. You run this country, not Italy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45006	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Ivan Vrdoljak came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45007	Honorable MPs, honourable MPs, I'll only take a few sentences now, firstly, I'm really sorry we didn't come before in the parliamentary debate, I'm sorry about those who want to consume this law. Those who appear, who want to solve some of their problems in their investments, those who do not want to go their own way, our papers, we do not have to force anyone or do so. I thank you very much for a very constructive public debate in this assembly. I would like to remind you that the next 25 days is a public debate open on this law, that we have a month and a half to come to a second reading with your proposals. I would ask you for us, for your sake, for the sake of the public, for the sake of investors, not to wait for maybe the last day with the amendments, to offer us very openly, officially in the next 25 days solutions, new key, remarks that are very constructive and effective. Because former ministers, long-standing parliamentary deputies have something to say, we have what to hear in the public debate about, however, agreeing with spatial documentation, criteria, establishing strategic projects, real estate issues, environmental protection, environmental protection issues, public procurement, yes, no, where, paperwork. I thank you for everything you've given us in your discussions so far, for distracting us, for something we may not have thought was too important, for something we might have given too much attention to. I'm glad it came from the opposition circles of the proposal to further liberalize the law. Let's not ask some questions, let's not ask for some things. So my position here is that we're basically and it's true and I felt so alone when I wanted to get here very quickly and that the biggest disadvantage that we're not here with this text was here in the third month so that already those who want to use the law strategically, strategic investment have their own law. But here's what we've estimated is that the functioning within the government's body is slow enough that we haven't arrived. And on the other hand, to really get something that each of you can participate in a concrete debate. We want to have the best possible law to speed up investment, which needs to accelerate the growth of the economy, which should bring new jobs to our citizens, new jobs, 5, 10, 500, as far as I'm not disabling any smaller investment. And we'll listen to every concrete proposal. However, to those who, probably, with arguments and arguments reasoned, you will soon be informed. So, just so you're here, I'm going back to that sentence, and I'm calling for the public debate that's open, all the constituency clubs, all the parliamentary representatives, all the NGOs, all the investors, and they need to call to help us, maybe they have some proposal to participate in a public debate that's open for the next 25 days. And that after that, all the questions that we have received in this public debate and all the suggestions that you have made here in your excellent debate in the Assembly will be discussed in the next period and come with a solution that will be best for our country, our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45008	Thank you, too. We have three reported replicas. First came the representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45009	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, a little help so there wouldn't be any misunderstanding, you said we weren't waiting for the last day, addressing the MPs with the amendments. I remind you, I am helping to avoid any misunderstandings, so this is the first reading of the Law to MPs and MPs cannot submit amendments in the first reading, we will be able to do so only when the Law comes in the second reading. It is therefore very important that you take a good look at it one more time, read the phonogram, really resist any concrete and well - meaning remark and try to install it into another reading of the Law. In this way, we will certainly receive a quality proposal of the Law in the final version, that is, in the second reading. And then the need for our amendments will be less. So this is now a crucial period from first to second reading that you really look at what we have said and what we have proposed without burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45010	We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45011	Yeah, so I totally agree it was just misunderstood when I said that, of course, I'm not expecting amendments now because they're not possible but then, but to cut them down and that's why I called. We have 25 days between the first and second reading of the public debate, then a short time after that for us to consume all these suggestions. So I call on them to address us, of course we have already written down all the comments in the debate and we will write down those which will follow in the rest of the individual debate so that we have fully agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45012	Thank you. Next replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45013	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We're not arguing at all about the intention and what you inside the ministry really tried to put in all those positive things. I understand and read well. You have someone on the side that already in the process of passing the law installed so many rigid things inside that the law is a product of different interests and basics and views and values I would even say. So everything you've done well with these things that deep down, they're stupid after all, they're significantly diminishing the possibility of implementing this law. Whether it can be fixed or not, I don't know, it's your business to win that fight. But, in general, watching, and there was a lot of talk about, about this really investment environment, that's what, a colleague said a lot of things about it. So legal certainty, encouraging tax policies, labour market, stable and stimulating... And credibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's what we've probably been down deep in the last few days. Vice President Vivian Reding said the contracts are binding. So what's agreed must be respected. You knew, you signed it, and now you have to act the way your signature has bound you and there's no change. What we have done, how we at the state level, the authorities of this House, in relation to this fact, and we know what I'm talking about, what these investors are going to think about, is that the state should invest its resources when such an institution as the European Union is so rudely deceived three days before entering, and how we send political and any other seriousness as a message to this so-called world. You can't fix such things by any law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45014	Thank you. We have an answer, Minister Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45015	So I understand your position on even greater liberalisation of the law. I am who I am and I have gone perhaps too far with some liberal attitudes to open up the opportunity for everyone to do so as soon as possible, but I really expect and will pay particular attention to your proposal which will obviously follow in the next 25 days, have a public debate on the websites. You can personally address me and any proposal that follows I will personally deal with it to analyse it and put it as one additional value in this law, in the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45016	Thank you. And the last replica, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45017	Mr. Chairman. So I think it should be clear to all of us that investment in the private sector is above partial political interests, it should be. However, Mr. Minister, I must remind you that in the past year and a half, in this Assembly of HDZ, he has shown responsibility, no indignation, and we have supported a whole series of laws that we have considered to benefit from the economic recovery of this country and the better life of our citizens. At the same time, what we've only heard from the current government in the past months, and especially this could be heard today, and that's the extraction of what was 10 years ago, 7 years ago, I don't know when. No one in this country is going to live better than someone getting out of what's happened a long time ago, but what they know and can do now, and what can be done today, I mean this government, we've all been experiencing in our own skin for the past year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45018	We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45019	Thank you, Vice President. So I've seen good intentions, in fact, with the participation in committee discussions, even the abstention of the opposition to this first reading proposal, which I must admit correctly, and I really expect it to follow in the light of the debate and that all of your concrete proposals that will come in these 25 days will have enough time to re-send to the second reading seriously. And I really expect this to be one of the laws, as you say, you've already had practice this year, that what's useful, what's good, what's good, what's good, what's good, what's... and there's plenty of time and enough of your wishes and that you're involved in making like here, that together we're going to get to the law that we're going to be at the very end of the line I sincerely hope in as much support as possible in this assembly. So given your position on the committees that were and on your debate which, that part of the bar that was focused on the law, I don't see any reason why we don't agree to this to the greatest extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45020	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45021	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. It seems to me that the biggest investment project in the next month or two in Croatia will be on city markets to introduce electricity, internet and heating for fiscal cash registers. It's one of the biggest projects we urgently need to implement to preserve around 20,000 existing jobs. But let me continue with the quote that reads: no sales, no privatisation of natural resources. These are the sentences of Deputy Prime Minister Neven Mimica made on 16 June this year in this Chamber when he represented the State Property Management Strategy. By reading this law, and in particular Article 17, I must claim that it was a false promise. In the assessment of the situation in this law, Minister Vrdoljak wrote that the task and objective of this government is economic progress and social well-being, that there are not enough investments, there are not enough interested and that the government is responsible for the anti-investment climate for which all of them are in Croatia except the Government and the banks. And I consider this claim and this attitude to be a false claim. Let me start with that first lie. This law allows privatisation, so to sell natural resources, forests, forest land, agricultural land, public roads and maritime goods to a private owner, only if his investment project is marked by a strategic project. The question is which no one wants to answer me where, in which municipality, the city and the county are space-planned documentation predicting the construction of a factory in the forest, on agricultural land or marine goods to justify the existing offered solution to God in order to create economic prosperity and prosperity. Secondly, I claim it is a lie that there is no interest in investment in Croatia and there has been and there has been and they refuse. Not in municipalities, cities and counties but are being rejected at the state level, if investors are not from the EU area, but do not give God from Russia, China, Israel, Singapore, so he could now list a number of serious offers for a number of serious investments that have been rejected in Croatia. I won't explain much about the South Stream, but the fact that another man was in Croatia a short time ago because of JANAF and possibly the South Stream, the Prime Minister went to the sea so he wouldn't have to accept it. Luka Rijeka was also a major investment offer, although China's partner was never serious in Croatia, especially not to discuss it publicly. Zagreb Airport as an example of a good investor from France to finally prove that the loan and for which, in its financial part, the EBRD will provide, is seeking the state guarantee of the Republic of Croatia. And perhaps the Minister of Tourism knows about a project worth about 5 billion euros in tourism at 5000 ha of private land, which unfortunately cannot pass through in Croatia because the investor does not need European banks' services in Croatia. None of the bankers in Croatia could make any money on the project and is therefore not welcome for the development of Croatian tourism. Who and why are all such projects obstructing? When you break things down, you will see that the interests of multinational companies and foreign banks in Croatia are behind it. And that's the truth, and we need to talk about it openly. They also say that the Government shows determination with this bill. I ask if there is such determination for the government to declare an exclusive economic belt in the Adriatic Sea or even greater courage to go to the public debt audit of these 174 billion kunas, which is what all of this has in it, as is the case in Iceland, that over 35% of the public debt of the state at the time was actually artificially secured especially by banks in the public debt of the state. And when they cleared it up, they reduced their huge problems. It turns out there's no investment because it can't be built in forests, on agricultural land, on public roads. Even without a competition, he needs to sell to a private investor. It's the essence of this law that speaks of the moment when a private project gets the character of strategic investment. The State Property Management Strategy states that this country donated 75 million and 970000 square metres of land for business zones, permanent plantations and local development, whatever that means. What is the effect, which is the result, which is well-being and well-being achieved from these 75 million square meters of land that is already in private hands. It would be very good and more understandable to read this law if the government had provided a list of projects for which this law was adopted or if it had given a list of state building land, I repeat the state building land which stands unused and offered investors domestic and foreign to build there under the conditions laid down in this law. That she gave a list of military, 300, over 300 military facilities and polygons that stand empty for years and offer investors. That she gave a list of failed factories and suggested that she would enforce banks that are the most common owners of remaining properties and ruins on failed factories and offer foreign and domestic investors to urgently develop investment projects under this law. That she has given a review of all the devastated tourist resorts that have been waiting 15, 20 years for state-owned investments and urged foreign and domestic investors to invest because it is already foreseen for the development of tourism or location for energy projects. This is one of the first of our proposals to the Minister no longer exists, and it is likely that someone will pass on to him, that the second reading in the assessment of the situation is exactly what they are proposing, which is exactly what they're writing, which is exactly how many millions of hectares of building land, how many locations in state-owned property at this point for more than 20 years of crying for reconstruction, investment, redecoration, and we're giving it to investors. So when we take advantage of all this, when every square meter of building land, the failed factories, we use the military facility, then let's ask ourselves if we need to turn further investment and agricultural land into construction and forests to build something that's better under the conditions of this law. But this law also has a problem with the Constitution and Article 2 which clearly stipulates that only in the Croatian Parliament or citizens directly decide to preserve and use natural and cultural wealth. He doesn't foresee the possibility of privatisation. And in Article 50, which clearly states that the law can also limit or confiscate property in the interests of the Republic of Croatia with market and value compensation, and I read this in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as an interest of the people, as a constituent element of the state, and not in the interest of private capital. The constitution here when it comes to natural wealth speaks of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, not private capital. Moreover, Article 52, which provides that the law lays down the way in which goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited for the benefit of society, but does not provide for the transfer of ownership rights as provided for in this Act. But let constitutional or legal experts deal with it. What criteria does this law provide for declaring a strategic project? I quote, hiring a larger number of people, greater than 1, if you employ 2 you have hired more than 1 who contributes significantly to development. The criteria of a significant, substantial contribution, that commission of 11 people will have to be extremely smart to distinguish significantly, less significantly and very significantly, raising the overall level of safety and quality of life and environmental protection. These are the criteria of the law. So, I've quoted the criteria by which someone decides on the fate of an investment project. So our proposal 2 of the ministry is more seriously addressed by these criteria, try to turn them into more understandable, or criteria that are measurable. The private project may receive or become a strategic project again under Article 17 if it fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 5 as freeways may in concession for 99 years. And what amount of maximum land in this project can be either an expropriation or a state without a public tender and fully non-transparently gives to a private owner. Our proposal No. 3 You must show yourself and describe which part of the land can be acceptable to the Republic of Croatia in order for a private partner to be entitled to the status of a strategic project. I'm not talking about public investment, they're making sense. Some people still don't understand it and don't know it. It will not be declared a strategic project in Article 8 and then lists 20 conditions, inter alia, if the investor does not pay pension health contributions. And if that big investor doesn't pay the workers, then they'll get the status of a big project, a strategic project. If he only pays minimum wages and pays the rest under the table then he'll get a strategic tag. If the workers are forced to work 220 hours a month, and it shows 184 hours, then they will receive a strategic project certificate. So, the labourer's payer wasn't interested, so that's our proposal. 4 That, under conditions which they must satisfy, do not forget about workers. Take care of the workers where we already have experience with this. The following proposal concerns Article 17(2) and (3), decisions on declaring a private project strategically and giving the rights referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 17, cannot be made by the Government but by the Parliament alone. And finally one question. And where's the guarantee when such a strategic project starts gets virtually everything and they say we missed, failed? What about the property? What about all the benefits the state gave such an investor? Nothing's happening to him. He doesn't owe anyone anything. And the final question, not to be misunderstood. Both state and private investor are needed by each state. But I remind you, and some former ministers will remember concrete examples of how many Croatian entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized, have destroyed foreign large investors who have never paid for what has been done. How many jobs have we lost because of this, how many crafts and medium and small businesses in Croatia have failed because only under the cover of development and strategic interests have these investors been viewed through the fingers of everything, and never have any inspection dared enter their yard?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45022	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. First came to Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar is a particularly painful place of this law that you actually seem to be the first to mention in his competent debate is the possible contradiction of certain provisions of this law. And that is what should be especially warned because it would be terrible to pass the Strategic Investments Act in the Croatian Parliament and then to be torn down by someone in the Constitutional Court. And I certainly agree that certain provisions of the law are contrary to the strategy we discussed here the other day. So also a strategic document for the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly necessary to comply at least with the law with the Constitution and certainly with the strategy. A particularly sensitive place is to give without competition. So, the government will have the opportunity to give certain goods without competition, and we know for ourselves that both competitions and numerous and each of you could remember at least one of them who were also set up and therefore also played the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and what we have been fighting for all these years and what is one of the obstacles, I have personally heard it countless times, especially from foreign investors, is corruption. So why was Croatia perceived as a bad place often times for investment? It's corruption. Therefore, this opens up such an opportunity at a small door, not doubting the good intentions of the promoters, but there are countless places where the possibility is opened through this law of manipulation, which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45024	Thank you. We have a colleague Lesar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45025	Comrade Kosor, I repeat, and I will be persistent in repeating. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has clearly laid down and placed natural resources, natural and cultural goods under special protection and provided for the possibility of and exploiting them, but did not provide for the possibility that, on a proposal from 11 people from some commission, the Government would decide that without a public tender, it would sell it. The second point of the criteria of this law, I really don't know who can seriously seek support for a law that says that a strategic project is the one that creates conditions for hiring a larger number of people. Watch out in the law writes a number of people who contribute significantly to the development and improvement of conditions, standards for production, provision of services and everything else. And I'm done with my powers. It is clear to me that the executive authority will always demand that it have all the powers because it is always as a hindrance in Parliament. But when we're in the area of constitutional matter and there's something in the Constitution that says that it enjoys special protection, then I'm not allowed by the Parliament to give authority to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45026	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lesar, you mentioned problems about military property primarily former military and turning it into civil and economic needs. And that's what's true and what can be read and this law won't solve it, too, because it can be solved now, because you've also mentioned well that it's never or most of it isn't on local self-government, but it's always stuck when it comes to state services in state bodies. But the situation here that's going on is interesting, first we get one commission that will have state-owned agricultural land, now we get one such commission that will determine what strategic investments these are, and I'll fill you in here, it doesn't say anywhere, they don't mention business zones in local self-government units where a bunch of money has been invested where local leaders have been charged over the past few months that they haven't functioned in a business zone. And now that we should negotiate and define strategic investments, we don't even mention those areas. And it's not true what you said that there are no strategic investors in this law. They're in there. We just don't see them. But those who wrote this very well have a set on that dimwitter where only the one who speaks and writes it has it written and knows very well who they are, where they will come and how they will come. And we have no idea about it at local level and all over Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45028	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45029	That fellow Hrg, military facilities, military polygon data that about 300 of them are state-owned outside use are listed in the State Property Management Strategy. What's going to happen to them, no one knows. Tourist complexes, here and there, we have the opportunity to see the television report and information that they actually present today a mockery in the middle of tourist zones because no one wants to invest there because the state has not interfered and cleared up the problem. 75 million square meters of building land given and right, a large number of zones are completely empty. So why doesn't the state take away that land that they gave to someone who wasn't put into office and then put the state into office. But another thing, the largest number of factories in Croatia in the final phase of the collapse turned out to be the largest creditors of the bank. Halls fail, buildings fail, everything collapses, then some mayors around these failed factories put a fence on so there's no shame in the back. I expected that here, in this law, there would be a proposal that the state would launch a procedure of expropriating these owners, so the banks, would take them away from further manipulating dead capital and put them into office and offer investors to build, say, new factories there. There's no sign of that in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45030	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45031	Thank you very much. Your colleague, Lesar, said that there were no measurements in article 5. It is not quantifiable, but it is not verifiable, and each criterion should be verifiable. How to check the criterion of having a positive impact on more economic activities, to make a significant contribution to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, to contribute to state development to a greater extent. Such unclear criteria and criteria shall not contain any law. These are floscules, not standards. What measure did 150 million kunas measure? This is an exact standard but equally credible and logical as that criterion for reducing the VAT of 25 thousand words, about reminds me of the same methodology. And imagine an investment of 20 million kuna for the islands. So do Hvar and Silba earn the equal value of the investment? And when you talked about article 8 and 15 of the reasons why someone could not be declared a strategic investor or strategic project, you added that workers were forgotten. True, no one would be able to participate in anything if he was liable to pay, but no one could participate in anything if he was obliged to deliver, because the one who is obliged to the suppliers then owes his worker because it's tied. Therefore, not all debtors should participate in such projects at all. And what about those who have received forgiveness of their debts in pre-determined settlements, what are they allowed to do? They've ruined thousands of small companies. They've taken many to the stock market. Debts, now they can be a strategic investor under this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that logical? Of course not. And this law is certainly discriminatory. And the Constitutional Court will have to deal with these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45032	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45033	My colleague Marić, I do not know, using Article 5 and to God’s criteria described in Article 5 after 10 years, who can measure the results as criteria. Either you have to be completely naive, believe that these are criteria, or you have to be completely obedient and accept that these are really criteria if you vote for such a bill. However, there is one other thing, in that Article 5(2), it says from fulfillment, with the fulfilment of the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, a private project may be declared strategic if it relates to production processing activities, development innovation activities. Now this, business support activities. Let's list all such possible activities, business support so that such a principle provision is later measurable. The workers are forgotten now. The workers are forgotten and yesterday I had a call on the subject when and sent to employers for those 1600 kunas, I'm sorry I simply can't convince you, illustrate what horrors these people are going through with these employers. And then when we talk about private investors having to be drivers of economic development, we stop and we don't go on. But not on condition that workers use them, destroy them as human beings, as persons without any criteria of protection and without any intervention from the state. And today at construction sites where the state is an investor, where investments are paid out of the budget you have at least 50,000 undeclared workers. And no one in this country cares.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45034	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lesar, when you have no clear and measurable standards, then you have administrative barriers. Because when the administrative barriers are born? When you have something like this at the principle level, you describe something that someone might or should have. However, when you clearly set the rules and standards and criteria for which someone needs or doesn’t need to get something, then there are no administrative barriers anymore because then that reference or someone else can’t stretch the object as long as they want. However, because of this principle and without the criteria of writing this Law and because of the fact that there are several hundred economic zones in Croatia, we all forgot that Croatia has dozens of industrial zones and these are former socialist mastodons that have failed. Unfortunately, in most major cities in the Republic of Croatia, there are at least a few hectares of such land with halls falling apart. So no one is looking at this potential which is already spatially defined and infrastructureally defined to make this something... But when you go to the principle level and you go with the kind of article 17 as planned here, so turn off the local self-government unit with Article 28, then clearly what unfortunately can happen and whether this principle level is written according to the strict instructions of some or for some, we will soon see it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they mentioned one infrastructure project that is very important for Croatia, which is Zagreb Airport. Why is that wrapped in a very secret? If the investor can't get a loan, if it's not creditworthy for a government to terminate the contract, a new tender should be opened. 'Cause this is funny what's going on, you might think, you give someone a concession then the government gives him a guarantee that he'll carry out that concession. Well, that's funny. Well, either you're going to do it or you're not going to do it, or what our people would say is the leg screaming, let another one come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45036	Thank you, too. My colleague Lesar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45037	Comrade Shuker, you are absolutely right that in the follow-up of this material there is a list of industrial and entrepreneurial zones which at this moment, and those more or less all have municipal infrastructure we offer to investors, anyone, then this law would make sense. To make it easier for me to understand it, I really miss the picture book, and I can see through the photos who this was actually written for. As for the Zagreb Airport, I must agree with you. What situation Croatia has been brought into again. We give the foreigners a concession, but in order to pay the concession, the Republic of Croatia must build an airport guarantee... What now? [[The speakers don't understand.]] Is there some kind of check in the contract that we can't break it? I didn't see the contract, he was declared a secret. So if there is a trap in the contract that someone signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, which is why Croatia can't break it now and drive out the one who started it, I almost said... I'm sorry. Then someone is responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if such a stiletto in the contract doesn't have to break the contract. It's very simple. What's the problem? Because this guarantee goes into the debt of the state. I guess we all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45038	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Proposal for a Law on Strategic Investments or actually a proposal for a law on private projects in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you could call yourself. What is behind the hill, or what is behind this law, is well defined by the previous speaker, so the one who spoke before me, that in fact a picture book with pictures of persons or legal and physical who shoot at property and on the property of the Republic of Croatia that was on the list of agricultural land, forest land, infrastructure and before road facilities and others. The strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, the Agriculture Strategy, the Industrial Strategy, etc., could all have been set in the Republic of Croatia, and then, based on these strategies, develop and invest in investments, regardless of the limits, 20 million euros, 150 million kuna. Which means that restriction, whether it's strategic, so 150 million kuna is the strategic goal of achieving this law, giving opportunities for destruction and environmental disturbances when we talk about forests and agricultural land, when we talk about re-use and agricultural and forest land. They say that investments in the Republic of Croatia have stalled, so this law is necessary. Why did previous years of investment in the Republic of Croatia, for example, come into some sort of let's say a normal, relatively normal amount. Well, because these investments were primarily investments in service activities and banks. And now that Croatia is fed up with a sufficient number to say those who carry out service activities and a large number of stores, brands of whatever you want, foreign, foreign etc. and clearly by a large number of foreign banks that Croatia has capitalised, as it is said, on Croatian taxpayers' money, there is no longer any need for investment in service activities because a ceiling has been reached and reached in which the Croatian consumer and Croatian citizen cannot... spend. It doesn't make sense to open a new department store when you have them on Slavonski Brod 12, 15. Who's gonna open the new store, no one's gonna open it. No one's going to invest in a new department store. And he says there's no investment, so there's no investment, yeah. Or you have 7-8 foreign banks in one Slavonic ship. What is needed, and what is here is also a colleague at the HDZ club, it seems to me that Boris said to Mr. Maric, it is an investment in production activities, and this investment does not have to be 20m euros or 150m kuna, it can be smaller and it can be strategic. So I'm the name of a strategic that binds to those 150 million kunas or 20 million on the islands, regardless of whether Silba or Hvar or Brac or Krk, it doesn't matter, and what's called strategic because it's so worth it. So money is paid for the name strategically, and the strategy should be prescribed by the Republic of Croatia in each segment of the economy, from tourism, agriculture, industry, crafts etc. This is what should be strategic rather than the amount of money that needs to be invested in order for a project to be declared strategic. Which is why no investment has been made in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, in the opening of production facilities in ours as said by someone here in economic zones, business zones, etc., who are staring empty. There are 18 such zones in the area of Brod-Posaviska County, and 3 are somewhat functional. 15 is completely empty, there are no buildings in 15 economic zones of 18 in the County of Brod-Posavina. This means that the business-economic zone project has not come into life or we can say that it has failed. 300 military facilities, resorts or any other military facilities gawks blank and decaying. Let's look at the Island of Goli, here's Boric nearby so he knows what's going on and what he looks like and how he's devastated and nobody thinks about the island of Goli giving someone. In addition, we and the agency called AUDIO have a very convenient name for a prized car, but it has a list of the properties of the Republic of Croatia, the state of Croatia, the Croatian people and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And what's in that list and it's devastated or it's not in function or it's abandoned, which is why it's not allowed, to say I'm not going to say on the drum, for whatever it is you want, so that an investor can be found who would become strategic under favourable conditions so that he can train those objects and put them into function. No, there are some things being saved for someone else, for some domestic investor who is not strategic, who does not have 150 million kuna or has very little, thousands can measure his investment to obtain such a significant property benefit in real estate. I'm talking about real estate. And we are going to be defiled to say literally defile our forests, our agricultural land to redesign them into such vaguely defined projects as so-called. strategic investors, mostly and probably mostly in a large percentage of foreign investors. And then says one slogan about Slavonia that was written this way during these local elections. It says: "Slavonia green oasis of Croatia", as if the Croatian desert remained, and Slavonia will be the green oasis of Croatia. Will the proposal for a strategic investment law really keep Slavonia green oasis of Croatia with this law? By re-use of agricultural land to any other land, by re-use of forest areas for any other purpose only because an investor will come under unclear circumstances as Shuker and others said, so the criteria are completely foggy, imaginary, not precisely determined, to get the right not only to use but also to own such areas. The logic of capital is exactly that profit, and where money says Boris's conscience is silent. That's why it seems to me that we have too little debate on this left today, so I'm not going to evaluate the replicas and their quality because I'm not in charge of it. But really, this kind of bill is obviously a cartoon for someone, drawn, and that's quite clear. And now to return to the investments that were presented in March 2010 worth 14 billion euros or about 100 billion kuna at the time of the former government. These were some 30 projects and the Government, none of which were achieved, and these are the thermal power plant Plomin, hydro power plants on the rivers Lika, Gacka, Senj, Senj two, Sklope, regulation and use of the Sava River in Zagreb for electricity production, the power plant Molve in Koprivnica-križevci County, the thermal power plant Sisak C, the Dubrovnik two hydro power plant, the Ombla hydro power plant, the reconstruction of Omišal terminal. Then the programme of economic use of geothermal energy at Kutnjak – Lunjkovec. Then the program Dubrovnik, reconstruction of the space terminal Žitnjak, biomass plant in Gorica, oil terminal Brižine, oil terminal Gaženica, underground warehouse Grubisno polje, underwater transport of the island of Krk oil pipeline, bridge Pelješac, then Brijuni Riviera, tourist zone Prukljan, Prelug, Croatian Olympic burning centre Bjelolasica reconstruction, centre White hair sports and recreation center. Then the programme for the construction of the wastewater disposal system in the Republic of Croatia, the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel, which is the only project regarding Slavonia, and this was projected at around 950m euros from these 14 billion euros. Construction and modernisation of the railway line on corridor 5B, so Rijeka – Karlovac – Zagreb – Koprivnica – border with the Republic of Hungary. It seems to me that there's Flying, the train station in Hungary first. Here is the Zagreb Airport 302m euros. These were former government projects. This current government of Kukuriku coalition in this year and 8 months continued to work, did nothing of it, but considered first by Mr. Cacic's model that state-owned enterprises were the main owners of investments, and now, after 20 months, they remembered that this would be the case only by giving to the Government of the Republic of Croatia through commission and decision-making in the ministries and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia that they could freely, without consulting the Parliament or any other consultations, put into the hands of value that the Republic of Croatia has beyond what it writes and what is written as property in the AUDIO agency. So new assets, new values, new properties to get a strategic investor into Croatia. It's hard to agree with this finding, but it's the same as we have to, but we need to know that investing in production activities, so let's say in the processing and food industry or any other industry has never been before, and it's less than 20 million euros, it doesn't need that much, but it's strategic, regardless of it's not 20 million euros. There has not been before, but has been invested in the construction of goods houses in Croatia and in the capitalisation and construction and to say the modernisation and equipment of banks in the Republic of Croatia. This was the main investment entrance, so the purpose of the investment entry of money into the Republic of Croatia was precisely that of service activities and banks. There has never been so much investment before except here in Saint Jean in Slavonski Brod, a company that manufactures car parts, aluminum and others in Slavonski Brod and others. Don't give God an investment like Patria. And it was an investment, and we'll see how that investment ends, and how she's my saying as a replica I don't know who IMT really has me here, and as Mrs. Kosor said she carries the elements of corruption. So even now when a decision falls on my back to say the weak back of the government actually carries elements or possibilities of corruption. We should think about that too. It is also true that many who wanted to invest in the Republic of Croatia told me that I came across a barrier and the man was from me to get permission to ask a favor, a favor, money, etc. There are hundreds of such stories in the Republic of Croatia Therefore, I think that this legislative proposal should be corrected, complemented and precise criteria should be installed in relation to investing in the Republic of Croatia in order for it to be acceptable and to finally attract, but not to touch our wealth of forests, fields, roads. [[Found Zgrebec: Finish your colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45040	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45041	Here, thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45042	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45043	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you said that the project of the economic zone had failed. It has not failed, it has stopped it as well as a lot in Croatia as regards the economy of the economic crisis. However, if we withdraw some analogy between this law and the economic zone, what were the economic zones? Nothing but the determination of space in certain parts of Croatia so that certain economic activities can be carried out clearly, transparently. Therefore, there was no need to isolate this or that. So it was a system of economic zones and many of them, dozens of them lived. Starting with Longfield... Sibenik, Stankovci, Virovitica, here at St. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sunday, etc. We can list as many as we want. So, the economic zones that have come to life. There are many where infrastructures are built, just waiting for investors and I said that Croatia should make a recording of these economic zones and those former industrial zones and give it as a task to local self-government units to compete towards future investors to attract them to come to them and make something happen. Secondly, let's not get carried away by the fact that there will be some large production in Croatia that will be initiated by someone in Croatia. It can only be done by someone on the outside who will bring a brand, who will bring a name and practically secure the market. Everything else is in this situation when the economic crisis in the world, when many countries have closed down to practically encourage their economy is a pure illusion. Therefore, the economic zone project has not failed. It was stopped by the economic crisis, and it was clear and transparent where what and how can be done and under what conditions rather than under vague standards and unclear conditions can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45044	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45045	Thank you very much. A fellow Shucker, many, very rare zones have come to life. We will end up asking about how many economic areas are in Croatia, and how many are operating normally? And in how many of them is capital ambrosia the main product? Capital ambrosia. Here, the Lower Andrians you gave as a minister and your Mr. Sanader gave you to the Lower Andrians of land for the economic zone, look at what it looks like. And as for investments in the Republic of Croatia, here you can see here in the Business Log, the newspaper Business Log, writes nicely the government finally takes the dust off the German project catalogue. So there are offers, there are offers, cash offers, money clear for investments in the Republic of Croatia. I don't have time to elaborate on what all German investors offer to the Republic of Germany and in which segment. Almost all segments, from RVE to Deutsche Bahna, etc. So, German railways, electric networks of German etc. It's not that there's no money, there's money, all you have to do is invest them wisely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45046	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45047	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You, among other things, presented one fact, namely the untruth that comes out of this law. So it is clear that this law does not reroute land or green oasis into building land as you said. It doesn't re-infect. This law clearly states that a strategic investment project can be declared strategic only if it is in accordance with the documents of the municipal spatial arrangement, i.e. the municipality or the city. There is no redundancies, although it is continuously and highlighted, but only the processes and the breaking of certain barriers that are clear and visible in most cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia are being accelerated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45048	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45049	A colleague Gjurkovic is not exactly what you say because here in Article 17. everything is clearly defined. So it is quite clear who decides and decides what. That's why I said that the possibility, as she said and I repeat again, is that I quote my colleague Kosor who said that this is exactly what the possibility of corruption, bribes, etc. is. And that's why I'm afraid that SDP phrase she wrote, here's what I'm going to say, specifically, on posters in Slavonia – Slavonia, the green oasis of Croatia can change color into another color, not green, but quite gray. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45050	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45051	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Grubisic, you said Slavonia – a green oasis, I would remind you of something else. There's an investment, there's, uh, our Port Authority with an 82-hectare zone signed contracts worth 750 million kuna where in the perspective, there would be about 2,000 people and you and I amendments when we adopted the budget we asked 8 million kunas to complete the infrastructure in that zone. Not for the east road that would connect the highway to that area that the burdens didn't go through the heart of Slavonski Brod and where it worked in the perspective of 2,000 people we asked 8 million kuna to complete that infrastructure. You know what the answer was? The amendment is denied. So the investor has and you invest a little bit to finally get something that's valuable, too valuable for the town of Slavonski Brod where I can say that when it comes to production in particular, we're at a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45052	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45053	My colleague Đurđević you know that I have submitted an amendment to Luka Brod and when your government was in power before in the last term and every time I have been told that the port of the boat is like a river port, so the port of the inner waters is like to say it because the sea is outdoor water, and Sava is inland water and Danube etc. So you go step by step step by step. And so, step by step, Luke Ship will be alive in about 100 years. So on the dropper comes the means instead of identifying exactly this one resource Luke Ship and the possibilities to come to a future time of construction of the Danube-Sava channel to make Luka Brod a significant river port along the Luka in Vukovar. So I have nothing to say to this government or to that government, thank you for your help with Luka Brod, thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45054	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45055	In your debate, you mentioned investments in energy not to build any HE from Molvi from HE Senja Kosinj, etc. Plomina C. what about it? We have all seen what has happened over the past year and a half, one head of HEP administration has been removed even though he claimed to be successful, it was further taken to Croatian citizens from the pocket of nearly 800 million kuna. The biggest investment of this HEP in that year and a half was a new administration building and today I read that the new management president is actually a pizza master, a pizza master, and we're talking today about strategic investment in energy. It's simple that a man doesn't believe and we do serious business. And then we hear that the electricity due to the competition that appears from Slovenia from Germany can be cheaper, that someone obviously took some 700 or 800 million Croatian citizens on fraud, and it wasn't necessary, but here we were a little carried out a little bit here and a little bit there 20%. And who's fine? It's mostly obvious to these people who run these public companies. What have we experienced from these investments? Nothing. What will we experience from these future announced investments? Nothing. We can't build Plomin C, and it's all set, if we can't Plomin C, we build D, E, F, etc. We have enough of those letters because the actual level at which we are talking about the seriousness of investment today is sufficiently illustrated in the prime minister's sentence that says in 10 years we'll be better off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45056	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45057	And listen, fellow Boric, I don't know about this pizza setup, but obviously the investments in HEP will follow towards a warm meal, so for the purchase of pizza, if that's what you say about a warm meal of pizza every day, as in one ministry was fish on Fridays and vegetarian food depending on the minister or minister who worked there. However, either way, the electricity costs 30%, and that's what this Kukuriku coalition took from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that's a fact. The way you calculated 800 million kuna is 800 million kuna. And here's the minister here gone but yesterday on TV I'm watching HEP calls like it's some kind of little toy, now upstairs right now, so I think it really doesn't make sense so it could've been without it. Turns out it could've been without a 30% pick-up. What was the pick-up for? Well, I guess the guards of the former director of HEP would pay for that if he touched the counter to keep his waist off so much he understood HEP and investments in HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45058	Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45059	Your Honor, Madam President. You are a colleague as a wonder why investment in Croatia began to invest in trade chains and banks, etc. I don't know what you're surprised about. It's the logic of capital. The capital "sniffed" let's so under quotes say where the fastest fertilizes his capital and normally that he came himself. He should not have been called by the Croatian government, but he came to Croatia with a profit logic. The state budget grew 10 billion a year and everyone was fine. The state had great needs by war the destroyed state was rebuilding houses, rebuilding bridges, roads, roads, railways didn't wonder where we went to that capital that we could get the easiest. There's been a crisis, it's supposed to be a reaction sooner or later, but it's not what we need to discuss today. It is clear that two years ago she had to sit at the table and see what the previous government had prepared from the projects. Well, it wasn't made by fools or politicians, it was done again by some professional people who are in some locations. There are no Croatian million locations, something was predicted in some locations as possible, which is certain and so. Then why didn't it go on since 14 which wasn't realized 3, 4, 5 but for some stupid reasons, is not what I hesitate to say here for the stupid reasons of tight, self-loving not what the previous set prepared, we'll do something. What? Nothing. And we are today as the greatest evidence of a waste of time. We two years after the power of this set, today we are able to discuss what should be done in Croatia. So we're discussing some law, so what is it that we're going to, where we're going, somebody say come on, what are strategic investments. Have the minister list them for me that we'll sell farmland, state woods, and we'll deal with them in five minutes what needs to be sold. There is something to sell and from the Croatian forest, on the island of Solti stoner, Spoons, lizards, they call it the woods. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] Well, that should sell, let someone do... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45060	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45061	Thank you very much, thank you very much, dear colleague Duja, and by the profession and by this profession we're doing today. And you see, I have an article in which I will respond immediately to your replica. He says, "Milanovic's new deal, same as the new business of Jadranka Kosor." So if we're going to believe as much of the analysis as there is in that article, it's actually the same thing. But there's no realisation, there's no achievement, that's the problem. And I'm afraid this legislative proposal will not change anything, too, because all I'm saying is that the administration remains, the obstacles that took place in this administrative, administrative procedure that investors have all remained. Here's the only thing we have right now is this decision and, in addition to the disputed Article 17, that the Government decides and something speeds up the process. So that the investments that existed and which were intended to be committed by state-owned enterprises in the HDZ mandate, primarily state-owned enterprises did not continue, although there was a lot of debate and plan 21, plan 21 also included these exactly investments, some of those investments from the 14 billion euros held by Mrs Kosor's government in the previous term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45062	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosro and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45063	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are, on the third day we are a member of the European Union, this is the first debate since the Republic of Croatia became the 28th member of the European Union, so in the Croatian Parliament. And I'm very glad that we're discussing investment, strategy, no matter how much we agree or disagree without discussing some 41st, 45th, or 48th issues. So this is good. I'd like the Minister of Economy to be in the assembly all the time, so he's here. Not because I would like the minister to listen to me personally, but because the minister in the adoption, i.e. in the debate on such important issues, gives, with all due respect to his associates, the debate in the Croatian Parliament. But I believe that the minister had a very, very important job. Because what exactly are we talking about? Through the provisions of this Law, we are talking about the Croatian economy today, but we are also talking about how the Croatian economy will look tomorrow and finally how we will live tomorrow. What's the fact and the fact that the debate is taking place is that the situation today is not good, that the investment climate is not good and that we have to do everything to improve it. A lot in the past has been said about how here we are talking about political parties, about political options we should do everything to reach a consensus on consent sometimes and talk too much, but if we should agree on something then it is investment, strategy and certainly a strategy of governance of state property. I am afraid that here are the indications from this debate that unfortunately there will be no such agreement about this law because many remarks have been made, it is hard to expect that the Government, or that the minister, will accept its remarks. It would be important, however, and it would be necessary and I will not stop hoping that, in the adoption of this Act, the ministry will go through once again all of the most important remarks that have been made, above all, about the possible opening of a problem with the counter-constitution of certain provisions and also doubts about the fact that this is also my opinion that certain articles of this Law are not in line with the State Property Management Strategy that we discussed here the other day. So these are serious remarks. I really propose that the Proposer cross over literally every letter once again because it is in the best interest for all of us to make this law a quality, or for this law to achieve the only goal for which it is proposed, and that is to finally strengthen the investment potential in Croatia. We now have favourable circumstances. So, we are a member of the European Union, and until now, or until a few months ago, I have often told us that, as a state, the fact that we have completed the negotiations then, that we expect to join the European Union but also the Law on fiscal responsibility that we have brought back in 2010. So this is a new opportunity, now we'll be interesting as a new member, many of these days it's said about Croatia, a lot of good words in world media. In particular, in the media of the Member States of the European Union, this is the moment. However, we now have the law in our first reading, so the question is when will we finally, or when will finally be the vote. And as far as the Strategic Investments Act is concerned, 2013 is and should be determined, it is complete. So this law will be possible if and when it is voted by full force only next year, which is once again the year of the ladies and gentlemen in which we will have elections, again the year in which we will share in the election on the political scene, again the year in which there will be major disputes, and I fear that there will be no year that will be most favourable to putting into office of such an important law. So, hoping that the applicants will accept the remarks, I will make concrete proposals, i.e. quite concrete remarks. So many times already today it has been said that there are no clear criteria to the end, so criteria for what they are strategic projects. They are not precisely articulated in the law, and of course their interpretation can lead to major problems, it can open up many debates, and it can certainly leave an impression in this public debate that something or someone has favored what simply no one needs, and it is not good. In particular, Article 5, which is why I propose to the Proposer that Article 5 is precisely working on concreteising the criteria under which an investment is to be declared strategic because if it is just said in Article 5(1) that it will be considered strategic projects, projects whose implementation creates conditions for the employment of a larger number of persons, this so far raises the question immediately, i.e. the question of how many persons it is. So whether it's a larger number of people, because the larger number of people when you naturally analyze it is both 3 and 5 and 10 and 15 and 100 and 1000 so we can say that it's a larger number of people and 2 people. My position has always been when I led the government to give to every investor who opens up investment and who hires and one man, and one person needs to be given a gift and should express their respect because a job and one person is a big thing always, especially when we are fighting a crisis. So please try to define these criteria to the end clearly and precisely. And it seems to me that in many places this term itself is strategic, which is a strategic, kind of easy use, so a strategic, strategic and notion should really be kept for those projects that they really are. Is that 150 million indeed, 75 or 20 million kuna, that would also be discussed, but please the Government certainly has the right to determine exactly those limits. And I agree, if we had, like, five, six, ten, imagine an investment next year of 150 million kuna, that would be great. Or as much as 75 million kuna, or if we had a 20-million-dollar swing on the islands, that would be really great. So I support the proposal, however, from desire to realization, from desire to achievement is often a very, very long and thorny path. As I said I'd be specific, so I'm going to do what I think is particularly sensitive. So, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, there are too many legal gaps in this law, there are too many open possibilities for interpretation just in such a way that everyone interprets the provisions of the law or rather translated, that it adapts them to a particular moment or a particular situation or to a particular investor. In fact, Article 9, maybe these examples that I'm about to give are going to make someone quite banal, but just on the basis of the banal examples, I think they're going to illustrate the best that I really want to say. So here in Article 9, it is said that the Government will set up a committee to assess and set up proposals for strategic projects and now says the commission has presidents, vice presidents and 7 to 11 members. So the proposal defines whether it's 7 or 11 members, it doesn't matter. It is then said that the President, Vice-President and Members are appointed by the Government, where the President of the Commission is in charge of the Economy and Investments, and the Deputy President and now or Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the Economy or Deputy Head of the Central Authority. Let's make a decision, so we can't leave alternatives there. The law must speak clearly who will be the deputy, meaning who will be the president and who will be the deputy. Who's going to decide on that alternative? The government certainly does, but we need to know when we vote on the law on who the deputy is and whether it's the deputy head of the central government or someone else. And now what seems particularly sensitive to me, so the variable two members of the commission are representatives of local administration units, i.e. regional self-government in which the project is being implemented. So it's good, I commend that they are two representatives of the local community, but I'm asking a question and there's no answer here in the law who and how and how and how these two members who represent the unit of local and regional self-government are chosen. Let me make my remarks, of course it's possible to replicate. My remarks are very well-intentioned and I think they're accurate and I'm trying absolutely not to politicize. So, legally apart from everything else, legal gaps don't just leave the possibility of different interpretations. Legal gaps open up the possibility of abuse, open up the possibility of heavy abuses, and just before in the replica of my colleague Lesar, I mentioned that as Prime Minister, I heard extremely much, in a conversation with potential investors around the world of objections based on their experiences and based on the perception of just the remarks regarding the possibility of corruption and of course not only at high national level, but especially at local level. I would like to remind you that Mrs Laura Stefan, who was also the rapporteur of the European Commission on the area of corruption, pointed out that Croatia has more to do in the fight against corruption at local level. So you have to do everything in any way that no one can interpret the provisions of this law but as it says here. Article 11 is also an observation set out in paragraph 8. The Head of the Task Force for Private Projects shall be proposed and elected from the ranks of the representative of the State Agency responsible for investments or from the ranks of representatives of the relevant central authority, and for public projects from the ranks of the Representative of the Central Authority of the State or from the ranks of the representative of the State Agency responsible for investment. So, the villain could interpret and say that he will choose how at a certain point he will respond to what I think is unnecessary and I suggest that the Government fully and fully specify this provision by the second reading. Article 18 has already been said, he disagrees at first sight, so he disagrees with Article 17 where it is said that the Government is deciding on something and then the government's decision, the government's decision, is being given its opinion, i.e. an opinion on the purpose. When a strategic project is decided by the Government then it is over, then it should be over and not leave the impression of a certain cacophony. And finally, these provisions I fully understand the intensity of doing so in the past government, so often I've said I need to make the system such that it's quick, flexible. Of course to prevent any impact of corrupt elements, but for example, a large investor literally comes and grabs his hand and carries him through the system, to get permission as soon as possible, to make it all of course effective, fast and to start working. So, I totally understand that. However, there are too many possibilities where the government can arbitration without competition. That should be put in frames. I also said earlier, we had negative, unfortunately and negative experiences and competitions. So, in the end because time was up, I remind you, we had an example of the Golf Act. My government eventually abolished it. The same thing was brought in so that we could have big investments, so that it could be built. Finally, when the law was abolished, it could still be built, but with law and law, the number of golf courses remained the same. So I suggest, at the end of the second reading, take a step forward, install these remarks, and therefore here in the first reading my club will be not against, but we will be abstention to give the government time to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45064	Thank you. Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45065	Madam Vice-President, Mrs. Kosor, I find it difficult to agree with you in many ways especially when you say that it has been unsuitable to us for a long time and that it is not a good investment climate as it is, I think that these are the important messages that you have made, and that, in terms of speaking of this, we need to reach an agreement, and that is, moreover, the government, and we here in the House can pass laws unless there are incentives and understanding at the local level. And I totally agree with you is your assessment of the one you passed on to us that is still a high degree of corruption at local level. My colleagues used to talk here, and my colleague seems to be telling me what's up with those failed mastodons, and we were celebrating when those mastodons were shot down. So Greece, too, so that reminds me of that. What we mean today to Greece was not created in Greece itself, but imported under parole sell everything and sell it out, not to mention bank business in particular. It's already more complicated stories, we don't have time for that right now. But here I would also look back at where the government was giving its property, its real estate. Many local self-government units took advantage of it regardless of what is human resources there and the political combination. But many sold it out and built something else or non-transparent. So, not at all what it served. But what's worrying is why I think your sentence and your message is that we need a consensus here and we need laws that will encourage and control local self-government units that are talking down there exactly and that such units of local self-government and their leadership that didn't behave like that, which wasn't built by the zone or sanctioned by the authorities, nor is it often asked to return to them what I think is now, especially with this next law that we're going to have and that's talking about entrepreneurship zones. That's one thing. But second, it's sad that they're not even the people, that the citizens haven't sanctioned them. Because obviously whoever's building the water line, the sewers, the entrepreneurial zones, they're asking how they're gonna get through. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] And whoever's doing the water-swimming went well, but no matter how much consent we need here. [[Thank you very much. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45066	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45067	Thank you very much. Yes, of course, I agree, and I hope that none of the heads of the cities, the municipalities, the county will take this debate as some kind of attack or some attack on the newly elected leaders and councils, or the assembly, but it is a fact that is recognized here and in our negotiations. You mentioned a real estate donation. Yes, we donated extremely valuable properties and military and other cities, for example, and then we could unfortunately conclude after a certain time that nothing had moved, although many of these donations had ended nowhere, or in the wind. But also the fact that I think every government has faced so far is that the best projects, or the best structured laws in terms of investment, often become tight at the local level for various reasons. Inertia, fear, so decisions should be made. Many today fear making decisions so that they do not end up under investigation. No, one who works in accordance with the law and makes bold decisions will never get hurt, of course if he didn't put it in his pocket, unless he manipulated the law, etc. So your replica shows that we still have a lot of problems, we have a lot of work to do, and so it's important that if this law is ever possible to be good and to be enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45068	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45069	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Kosor, I absolutely agree with most of your debate, and I must admit that there was absolutely no politicisation of what you were talking about in the debate but from article to article and in detail and I believe that the representatives of the government will, of course, take into account the final draft of the law. However, I must mention one sentence which is essentially a reflection of politicisation in Croatia, which is when you mentioned the shame that this will be implemented at the time of the elections and then there will be no common agreement, etc. And now, in the debate, you've just said problems related to local self-government braking, making certain decisions. So, at this very moment when we are talking about this politicisation possible at the time when the euro is parliamentary elections next year, and these decisions will be made by this government not politicised but will literally make the decisions needed for the development of the Croatian state, for the development of the economy, for investments regardless of the situation, and this is called local elections or European elections or any election, believing that Croatian people, Croatian citizens know exactly and understand that decisions are working in the interest, not stories and demagogues that we are most often in the media and in the public witnesses by those politicians who use the media to show and tell stories that are unrealistic. And this life and this law is what's real and what's needed right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45070	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45071	Yeah, I mentioned next year and the election. So, it will be elections for the European Parliament, but it will be as far as I know they come to the turn and presidential elections. As regards elections for the European Parliament, the assumption is that there will be many and members of the government, i.e. ministers, some, probably also representatives but certainly also some mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. And that's the moment when it stops and that's how it always is, remember all the previous choices, so when you don't usually make decisions. Why? Because everyone is in force, the parties apply, so that the voters do not resent each other in one way or another. Therefore, they are valid and seek to leave themselves, or the party, as certainly as possible, independent candidates as possible. Because, I agree, often making bold and determined decisions is not always welcomed by applause. And it's not always expected to grow in ratings. So that's why I brought it into this context because we've wasted too much time dealing with different elections and election preparations and after election arrangements, and we've been focusing less over the past few years on what is essential to doing responsibly, resolutely, to make decisions once again, to make decisions. And the key to this law regardless of how it will be conceived at the end because most will bring it is to unlock the door to investment potential. So very soon we'll see what the results are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45072	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45073	Your Honor, Madam President, Mrs. Kosor, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I support him in full. I have a line to your opening statement that you're glad to discuss modern topics, not '41, '45, '50. And you've listed it for a few years. It's like in day-to-day policy use well, maybe focused, but I'll tell you I don't want to keep it quiet if we were just discussing '41, '45, '50. And so we'd be a missed generation all of us here since the '90s, and so would this assembly of Parliaments and Governments. But since we didn't want to discuss these subjects and put them in a place of truth, justice and morality, we are the missing generation of gentlemen. And Mrs. Kosor tell the Jews to forget about the ruins of the temple of Jerusalem, tell the French to forget about Bastille, I'll go a little further. There's even an individual memory, there's a historical memory, and it's indestructible. And until some things are put in place, you can't move forward. So, we need to discuss some things based on truth, justice, objectivity in the letter of the entire people of all nations in the Republic of Croatia, all confessions, and then they will be able to say we don't need to talk and they won't even have to talk because they simply won't talk about these topics. And whoever sings more to Marjana, Marjana than we can sing freely to Marjana, Marjana, until that topic is put in a way that is true, we will debate. Mrs. Kosor, we have Ovcara in Croatia before the Ovcara. If some came from Zagreb hospitals took the wounded and threw several thousand wounded from Zagreb hospitals in Jama Jazovko, then we Croats have Ovcara before Ovcara. The Badger is the Sheepdog before the Sheepdog.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45074	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45075	... in a cultural way, in a civilized way or we left it because we're fools to the next generation that... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45076	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45077	So I think my colleague Marasovic thinks you're wrong about imputing me to forget. So, I was the secretary of defense, so if we could open the Ovcara debate, then we could certainly discuss both longer and more with more information about Ovcara and the victims of Ovcara, their families, their fathers and mothers than perhaps others in this assembly could. So I refuse the imputation that I stand for oblivion and did not mention the 50th year, I said that I am glad that today we are not discussing '41, '45 and '48, because that's how we ended a few hours before we join the EU, and that's my opinion, as an advocate, I have the right to my opinion. and as far as oblivion is concerned, but a colleague of Marasovic's decisions should be made. One of the decisions of my government and myself as president was, for example, the law of nothingness but many other laws. I personally asked the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers but I also wrote as Minister and the Law on Non-discrimination and these are all the values I advocate. And I still think that no matter what I've been kicked out of a party that you belong to, I'm not impossible to think and I'm not impossible to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45078	Joseph Salapic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45079	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I've been listening to your debate here and a little bit in replicas and said what I was about to say but it's not burning to repeat. I agree with you when you say that some key national issues need to be reached by consensus. I think that, personally, this Law on Strategic Investments should be an important law for all clubs in the Croatian Parliament not only for the promoter, and it is good for me that this Law is the first reading of the law, which will open a wide public debate and the fact is that there are plenty of legal gaps in the law, so I hope and believe that until the second reading of this legal void will be removed so that we do not suspect or allow the law to have a possible possibility of corrupt activities. I don't think it's the motionor's intention or government or anyone here from the representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. and that it is difficult to reach consensus in the conditions in which we live I personally advocate consensus when it comes to national interests. And you mentioned our debate in the Parliament three days ago. Unfortunately, we couldn't reach a consensus on the Declaration of Croatia's entry into the EU, which I think is a complete disenfranchisement of the Croatian Parliament because that is one key issue. We discussed the truth that day in '41, '45 and there was no time to discuss it, but it would be time to discuss the activities of the Croatian Parliament and the functioning in the conditions of full EU membership. And until these political disputes over the key national interests and issues are resolved and the possibility of an agreement is reached then all those who follow and the work of the Croatian Parliament and the work of the Croatian Parliament as a whole will have a completely wrong picture of what we in the Assembly should do and what is our duty as parliamentary representatives. If on key issues when it comes to new jobs, we do not know how to use all together, whether we were ruling or in opposition today, then unfortunately we did not do good to our citizens and citizens. And I advocate that by the second reading of the law those instruments are found and that legal gaps be removed to benefit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's the policy's goal for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45080	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45081	This is how I agree with her and we need to learn more, here we are now a member of the EU to learn to discuss and learn to accept other people's opinions, however we did not like it. And something that since I've been back in the council benches, I've often said, so as politicians, we have to represent the same values whether we're sitting on the left or right if we're talking about key issues and whether we're in power or in opposition. So today I am in opposition today representing the same values that I have represented both as a member of the government and as a member of a large party and as Prime Minister. And when we learn that, and when we get there, we're sure to start a lot of things from a dead end. Look at the Labour Act, and look at this law that some have quite unjustly called and if you mark it by the name of one person. I think we need to discuss the laws regardless of who they're touching, and we've created problems needlessly, we've changed them. I'm sorry the government didn't accept my amendment to the European Arrest Warrant Act. Today, Mrs. Vivian Reading would not say the warnings she utters through a letter to the Government, etc. So I should listen sometimes and if I could return time safely that sometimes, even at a time when I had decided, I needed to accept an opposition amendment, there should have been such an amendment. But it is good that a person can publicly say that he can admit it publicly. That is what I stand for and believe that in ten years' time, the situation here in Parliament will be different when we discuss the laws, and the government is now on the move to install all of our well-intentioned constructive proposals into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45082	And Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45083	... You forget, but I'll remind you. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] At the time when you were Prime Minister, you say that today with this law, you allow the government to unlawfully assign, divide the country. But that's what you did the same way. Not even taking care of the local self-government development strategy anymore. I don't think I have to remind you of the country because you know where I come from. As far as I'm concerned, another very important thing in my mind, you're saying that two representatives of the local self-government units will be on the assignment committee. So I think it will be asked for sure that the units of local self-government that these members will give and those of the most valuable members of the local self-government units that will take very strict care of the interests of the municipalities from which they come, build and the interests of their citizens. So, I'm glad you're thinking and saying you're in favour of strategic investment, but in the past, you really didn't show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45084	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45085	So here's the last one, it's just not true what you're saying, remember the Brijuni Riviera project, and yet you personally weren't into it. However, everyone else was and was signed by the then mayor, the president of IDS and so on. It's a big and important project that as all the budgets spoke could create about 2,000 jobs, I think it's a lot and two jobs are a lot in crisis and let alone 2000. However, as far as these are concerned, I did not say that the law would allow for the illegal division of the country. I didn't say that, I didn't say that, look at the phonogram, I said that the law is abundant in legal gaps, so I'm saying that as a lawyer, which allows for interpretation and which then enables space to be opened for illegal action. I didn't tell the government. I generally talked about law enforcement. So, I didn't say what you're imputing to me in your replica. And here's the thing about selecting these two members you didn't, you obviously didn't listen very closely. My question was because this law must say, define how and how these two members of local, local administration and self-government will choose. In what way? Who's going to propose them? This must all be written because, ultimately, when the law enters into force, it cannot be decided by the Government. So that the government of any country where someone closer to the government is in power decides in one way and where in power some who are not closer to the government decide otherwise. That's why it needs to be written, it needs to be articulated, and the thing is solved. So my proposals were very concrete, precise, and I believe that the promoters understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45086	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is my colleague Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45087	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I will support this Bill proposal because I believe that Croatia's investments are necessary, especially strategic investments. And I hope that the government, or the competent ministry of this bill, will fix it in two readings until the second reading. What is a key problem in my opinion in this bill is the question of what are strategic investments in the first place. And could it really be declared a strategic investment, for example? a project to build a chewing gum factory simply because the project costs more than 150 million kuna according to the criteria of this Act, since it is a processing activity it could be declared a strategic investment. The fundamental misunderstanding with this Law is therefore not what I see in the so-called so-called Law. an attack on natural resources, which has been mentioned by a very large number of associations, but rather in creating a possible environment of injustice and inequality among investors. A strategic project cannot and must not establish a commission, regardless of what the government forms. This cannot even be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it must be the parliament's job as the highest representative body in the state. Because I am the name of a strategic talking about something that is the realisation of the framework of all plans, the plan of all plans and the adoption of all strategies in the state is in the power of the Parliament. The strategic project must meet one key criterion, which is that the project must be of public interest. And that some project is in the public interest about the very logic of things excludes projects that are in partial, individual, particular, financial interest. And that interest can't be turned public just because of the fact, the value of an investment or the number of employees on a project. The strategic project can only stem from the country's development strategy and at country level. This can be from the Strategy for the Development of Science and Technology, from the Energy Strategy, from the Strategy, for example, waste management or some kind of transport strategy. And this means that the selection and putting process on the list of strategic projects must be vice versa from the proposed concept. That is, the Government should propose and the Parliament should vote on a list of strategic projects in which public, private or public-private projects that meet the key needs of the population and not just parts of the population, and that is what we call public interest. These can be projects from municipal infrastructure, waste water treatment, waste management, environmental protection, energy, science and technology development, road construction and the like, but in my opinion these cannot be economic projects in the narrowest sense of the word. This law has yet another great weakness, which is that this law, in fact, and unfortunately recognises the government's impotence and even the government's capitulation in front of inefficient red tape and state apparatus, because if we had a state administration that is a real service, an efficient service for all citizens wouldn't need this kind of lex specialis that can lead to new divisions and injustices, and let's be realistic, possible bargaining for individual investors. A healthy economy does not rest on several major projects, a healthy economy rests on a whole series of small and medium-sized projects, which unfortunately will not be encouraged by this bill, and there is a key to all problems, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia urgently has to deal with the reform of the state administration that will eventually make administration what must be, and that is an effective, efficient and just service for all citizens, and not just some citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It is a good thing that I repeat this law we are discussing in two readings because it means, I suppose that there are opportunities for this law to be improved and improved until the second reading, and here I would also like to emphasise that this proposal that we are now discussing is significantly better than the one we had the opportunity to read during a public debate which unfortunately was not a public debate because it took too short a time, 15 days. According to the Environmental Protection Act, and this law belongs to that category, the public debate should have lasted 30 days minimally. Now I'm going to talk about some specific articles of the law that I think would be good if they were corrected a little bit and redefined a little bit. So here at the outset of Article 2 I believe that this paragraph 1 is too broadly defined what can be a strategic investment project and I think it should still be guided by some principle of public interest. Article 5, it has been discussed very much today during the debate, talks about the criteria for selecting strategic projects. I really do not think that this should be the level of investment defined here at 150 or 75 or 20 million kuna because, for example, a strategic project for the state of Croatia can be a solution to a particularly important municipal issue related to waste management, and this project does not necessarily have a value greater than 75 million kuna. We also have in paragraph 2 what else could be an additional criterion for declaring a private project by a strategic project, and now it says in the third subparagraph, business support activities. So according to this, it could really fit into everything and everything and so often mentioned shopping malls, and it's really very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, In Article 6, I already talked about this during the previous part of my debate, it is defined that projects are proposed by interested investors. I believe that this is wrong and that the Government should actually define, the Parliament should vote what is on the list of strategic projects for the Republic of Croatia, and that investors should then find themselves based on this part and that would then be one way that would significantly combat the possibility of favoring and potential corruption. A similar remark concerns Article 9 relating to a commission that should define that list of strategic projects because it should be the work of the Government and the Council of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to warn that Article 14 is also Article 26 contrary to the Environmental Protection Act. It's about the urgency of the procedure and the emergency procedure that's been going on for 15 days. The deadline for a decision on whether an environmental impact assessment is necessary for a project is not limited for 15 days but to 30 days and must be respected. Article 14 also states in paragraph 7 that if the administrative authority does not act in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, it will be forced by a financial penalty of 5000 kuna which is quite absurd because it means that the state administration will punish itself and that punishment will be poured into the state budget so that I do not think that there is a very effective measure. And finally, I would just like to mention that Article 28 keeps talking about the implementation documents of the spatial arrangement. The implementation document of the spatial arrangement is definitely a detailed planning of the arrangement, but the urban planning of the arrangement is such a spatial plan that it is necessary to continue to result in locational permits and therefore cannot be considered and I do not think it is good to define it as an implementing document.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45088	We're on our way to replication. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45089	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, so in a good part, I agree with your debate, but since we all agreed more or less on this side, and you said that in a year and a half nothing was done. In order to systematically improve the investment and entrepreneurship and business climate in Croatia, it is evident that such shortcuts are needed. We all talked during the day about a lot of loose ends and I'm sure there's a lot of room for those changes and fix it. However, where I disagree with your debate is that you share so clearly in private, so when we talk about the economy of private and public interest. In fact, let me be perfectly clear when I'm saying this. Therefore, the private interest, i.e. the interests of private companies and the private sector in Croatia, is also public. Because if we expect the opening of new public places, the increase in income in the state budget, therefore by paying taxes and economic growth and tomorrow and a better standard of all citizens will not be achieved but only through the private sector, through private investors, so private investment projects, and in this sense I spoke several times in the Croatian Parliament, here in this assembly that one of the reasons why we have been in crisis for so long is because Croatian politics and public administration do not recognise that the only way is honest, honest, but transparent support for the private sector, private entrepreneurs can achieve economic growth in 2013, fourteen, fifteenth, fifteenth or whenever, unfortunately, trends for at least the last year and a half days speak the opposite. And as for the award system, i.e. punishment, I think that whoever will finally start a real reorganisation of the public administration soon, that they will have to face the fact that they will have to introduce this very system of rewarding in the public sector, which means in some way also the system of punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45090	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45091	So I'm not talking about against private investment being put on the list of strategic investment projects. I was just saying that the criteria should be of public interest. Of course, by liberalising the market and in the field of energy and in all other areas in the end, we have opened a space for private investment. But it's the wrong way, and it's the wrong way, and when defining spatial plans to get something on the list of strategic projects, it comes from the private sector because the state itself should know what its strategic interest is and define those projects that are in its strategic, public interest, and then private initiatives fit in, and then we wouldn't have problems that we have with both spatial planning manipulations and so forth. So this is not about any opposition to private capital at all, nor the implementation of different projects in private. But the basic precondition for the realization of private projects which are nevertheless primarily in some particular interest in achieving some profit which is normal and logical must be done in a way that the state has an effective bureaucracy that will equally treat everything and that is the only correct way. And we need the Strategic Investments Act, but in a completely different way than what it's proposed in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45092	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45093	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mirel, from this debate of yours, I am reading that you are looking for even more clarity and concreteisation in this legislative proposal itself, and I also agree that investments are necessary. However, some investments that have already been under way have led to a wide variety of debates, some even leading to the first referendum. I will mention here a Dubrovnik golf case on Srđ, or an apartment settlement with golf courses, which is already a controversial process, as we know, has not passed the referendum, but we cannot yet ignore those 10,000 or 11000 of our citizens who have been to the referendum. I must stress here that through this process that went into 2005 that it was actually a very bad communication and that it was one big investment problem. Whether this bad communication was intended or not, I'm not going to get into it, but there was a lot of half the information and I'm wondering now if there was an open card game. There has been everything since the expansion of the scope since 2006 which has not been legal until the sale of state land at ridiculous baffle prices, then the return of spatial plans to completion several times, etc. etc. to the very name because it is not golf on Srđ but it is an apartment village with golf courses because what else to say from 240 villas and 400 apartments. And now I'm wondering as a citizen how much of the cost the city is going to invest, invest in it, or how much they're going to get from the utility fee. Are these funds sufficient, is local self-government actually damaged by such projects or am I aware that large investment projects are risky, absolutely and that it is precisely why it is very necessary that the clearer communication that citizens know what is waiting for them today, tomorrow, that councilmen know what they are raising their hands for in the adoption process was... or anything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45094	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45095	Yes, esteemed colleagues. I absolutely agree that it is crucial in the functioning of the state that the equal rules of the game apply equally to everyone. And unfortunately, in Croatia, we have not had such a situation in this moment and for many years. And as long as that happens then some projects can be broken over their knees like the mentioned golf project at Srđ, while on the other hand, perhaps some other projects with similar coverage and with the existence of capital that could be invested will never be realised, nor will they be considered because there may not be enough political ties between these investors and those who decide. What you mentioned was the manipulation of spatial plans related to the implementation of the project, and it was absolutely true that it was first to work on a very comprehensive public debate on the project, that a referendum should be organised in a very early phase around the project, and then the investor would eventually have a much clearer situation, a more transparent situation about whether citizens who should have the opportunity to decide on such projects in their local environment support or not to support such a project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45096	And the replica, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45097	Thank you. My colleague Holly, in your debate, you are what particularly intrigued me about what strategic projects are, then that the government should define what strategic government projects are, derogating some of the other laws that this Law on Strategic Investment Projects is doing and manipulating with spatial plans. We simply have a certain law which, this undermining, means the proposal of the Strategic Investment Projects Act, we can look at the positive and intensity that it has or we can look for, which is some purpose of the debate to make it better. I don't read here from this bill, which you've had a lot of criticism and a lot of positive things, that there will be manipulation with spatial plans. In fact, this law does not define any law in its essence. According to the introduction, I will quote in the assessment of the situation: "some segments of the regulation of the relationship to which this law is maintained have been established by a series of special laws and regulations that remain in force." Well, it's a little bit odd that the government that's proposing this bill, the proposing of a series of laws that we've discussed in this House, would deny or derivate these laws themselves. It doesn't make sense. Furthermore, practice tells us something else. Here's an example of my local environment, there was an investor, there was no space in the free zone, there was no communal infrastructure, the diameter of the sewers, the diameter, the force involved, and we had to bring changes to the spatial plans, and we went, it was the investor about a hundred new jobs with the possibility of expansion. In the first phase of 5 hectares of the country, long-term 15. What was I supposed to do? Well, of course, if this law could be applied in the local environment, it would be far more quality, and I agree with a number of colleagues. However, I believe that this part of how far I have been able to read from the debate that is in line and that practice will confirm that the intention and intensity is positive. And I hope it applies as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45098	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45099	Dear Vice President, I didn't say that the intensity of this law was bad, I said that the law was ultimately corrected in relation to that document that was in the public debate and I didn't talk about the derivation of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. I just drew attention to the fact that the urban planning of the arrangements cannot be considered an implementing document given the fact that following the adoption of the urban planning arrangements, local permits need to be established. As long as you do not have to obtain a location permit in the detailed planning plan, this means that it is indeed the real implementation document of the spatial arrangement. And that maybe we should consider some modes here. And I absolutely agree that we need the Strategic Investments Act, especially in the part of meeting certain obligations towards the EU where we have very short deadlines. Here I am going to connect myself, and I will mention the waste management area where we have very short deadlines to meet and where I can help us with this law in the speedier realization of these obligations, but these projects are indeed in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Not only in terms of raising standards for environmental protection, meeting a higher standard of municipal infrastructure, but also in terms of protecting against payment of foams that we will have to pay towards the EU. So there is a reason why these projects could be declared strategic projects. But I cannot fully agree that some project to build a chewing gum factory that enters the dam of processing activities can only be declared a strategic project because it is worth more than 150 million kuna and employs 100 people, you understand? That's what my fundamental objection to this law is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45100	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, another colleague of ours will join the oath. The oath is given in a way that the chairman reads the text of the oath, and then the representative when he is called rises and says, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Ivan Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45101	I swear. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45102	Thank you very much. I congratulate you on behalf of all our fellow MPs and advocates on your sworn oath. I wish you successful work on this responsible duty of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We're continuing the debate. Comrade Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45103	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, a respected deputy with an associate. Here we are where we are, so an economic moment that is not good and we need to do something about it. There was a lot of debate here today, there was even finding the culprits whether he was subjective or objective, he was also wanted in '93, and we were asked in '98, 2008, we could look for him in any year, we could look for him in ignorance, in incompetence, in crime, or in reflections of the European crisis, or in the global crisis, but the fact is that even if we could find him we wouldn't benefit much because we're in a situation where we're not exactly a desirable destination for investors and investors and we're not desirable when it comes to protecting investors and their capital. Someone mentioned capital as an animal, as a living creature, so when it comes to that, then it should be said that if a living thing were the most cowardly thing in the world, it was because he was looking for his protection. Of course, here we can say that the driver of development and our economy are certainly investments and we have to deal with investments seriously. Of course this law goes this way, and of course I'll support it along with my clubmates. I believe we will come to a consensus when it comes to this very significant law. I'm sorry he didn't come sooner. I think we could make that effort to get him here sooner and get ahead of ourselves because someone said we'd only be able to apply him next year and he's almost right. At the beginning of today's debate, I had a lot of questions, I had a lot of dilemmas on some of the proposals of the articles of this law, namely Article 5o, to better define what a strategic project is and all the way up to the role of the central government or parliament as many questions as there have been here, and here I will try not to elaborate my views on my articles because I will probably get an answer through this debate, and also through another reading. Of course, Article 17 has left a lot of dilemmas, and I believe that in this next period we will clear it up, to clarify it better. And here I am going to shorten my part in order not to call an extraordinary session, so I'm going to try to be shorter. What may not be the best way or has not yet been apostrophealed specifically is Article 8. So I'll be here for a while. I therefore believe that there should be a lot to be relaxed and respected by investors entering with significant resources, whether it is 20 in assisted areas, islands or 15 million kuna. In particular, I would like to recall paragraph 4 which says that in the event of a suspicion of the truthfulness of the data that these investors have submitted that competent authorities may request assistance from those competent authorities to obtain information on the situation of these entities. And then there is also a link to Article 12 of that if it is found that these data are not correct that a decision on a strategic project is repealed. I would return to this item 4. Who is this doubt, or who is it, or in what way are we going to question or implement it, or how will we continue to act if you get any anonymity or that some kind of reference in the central body of the administration doubts the truthfulness of the data? From that angle, I think we should clear things up at the very beginning because if someone with so much money gets into the investment then we have to kind of respect him, stick to him. I'm not sure that we can put it on some kind of pole ourselves to know the shame and media attention, etc. I would therefore rather find one solution in which everything will be determined sooner than we get to the list itself, or come up with a decision to be made by the Government or the Parliament, and that will be discussed. Here I would do nothing else. I would just draw attention to Article 27 or Article 28. I would give greater importance to the adoption of an urban planning and detailed planning of arrangements precisely because these projects will live or should survive us and stay for future generations, and we will live with these projects or they will live with them and affect both our lives and our work is if this is what I will say to some neighborhood if nothing else. So I think that we should be more careful here, regardless of all that short procedure and all those wishes that we have for faster progress, or for faster implementation of these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45104	Thank you very much. And my colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A few sentences regarding this bill. So there was already talk here about it and I said myself before that I simply do not believe that the adoption of this law will unfortunately start an investment cycle in Croatia although I would like it as much as all of us sitting here. What I'm hearing through the debate here today is a little bit disgusted by me, I must admit that I've heard on several occasions very ugly words and convictions at the expense of local self-government. There was a rumor here that it was talking about that we gave local self-government, we, uh... , well, in that part, it can be assumed that we are not all equal as is said but in some discussions or this Law that this Law is not the same for all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is obvious that we are not all equal in this country and that we are simply often using that method known from the state level against local self-government "holding thieves". I simply cannot accept it, and I think that the local self-government in the Proposal for this Law is really demoted, but from what is also said where it is not defined who proposes members of the commission by local self-government. And what I also think must be defined to know who he is, to know who they're responding to, like who they have to report to, but it doesn't say who's proposing them. So taught experiences between, in collaborations between local self-government and state institutions, then I express my suspicion and concern that there could be of course manipulation and that it could actually happen that people who are not elected by the legal authorities at local self-government levels are not politically compatible with state policy. So it needs to be defined anyway. I'd say it might be best if we could end the local self-government, I don't think we should because all the laws that are passed in the back of a few months basically attack the local self-government, accuse it, blame it as if they were some foreign bodies, as if they were some enemies of this country. And my dear gentlemen, life takes place in local self-government. The head of the municipality or the mayor of a small town cannot promise something to his citizens and no longer appear before them. He can't because he's with them every day, because he drinks coffee with them, he lives with them, they ask him daily. And it's all clear. The same thing is when you talk about the speed of the documentation. I am responsibly telling you that simply and now, according to the current laws and by those who were three, four years ago, you could very quickly result in permits, very quickly prepare the project and very quickly put it into operation if there was a will. You know where we had the most trouble? In state institutions. It's also talked about, and it says in the law, it's about the property of the state, it's about military, former objects, so my dear people, can you believe that someone for 10 years has correspondence with various agencies, I don't know what it's called and it's called, now it's audio, I don't know anymore, I can't even follow that sequence anymore, and today we haven't solved some of the most basic things. Even where we wanted as a local self-government to buy land from the state we couldn't make it. Even the IRS brought an assessment, even a court expert brought an assessment, and we couldn't handle it. So I'm asking questions about what's wrong with local self-government and what's gonna be her fault tomorrow when something happens. There are also cases where investments have been made in former military premises. Here in my town in the Križevci they say it's one of the good examples. And you know where we have a problem. We have a problem in disagreement again between local self-government and the state because we got something owned, something with the right to build, something to this extent, something to so many years. And we have rejected investors because we can't offer, we can't offer them the right conditions. And we're asking for that to change, but there's no answer. We don't hear from the maids or the porters anymore. And back these years and a half people. We're completely blocked. I say it responsibly, responsiblely, 12 and a few years doing the mayor's work, I've been through all the governments, all the structures, I know well how to deal with them. This last, year and a half is definitely the worst. And that's what entrepreneurs say. Therefore, it will not be the Law on Strategic Investments, which we do not know which, as far as investment is concerned, but it will solve a whole new, different approach to this, a different climate that needs to be created in order to create at all some preconditions that someone has the idea of going to invest in Croatia at all. There's been talk here about entrepreneurship zones as well. I think this law would be voted upon, of course, given the majority in the Parliament so that it is not disputed, it is not questionable, but it would be good really to do it a little bit, to do it, to certainly put, to install in the law that primarily strategic investment means focusing on entrepreneurship zones where there is a lot of money invested. We've seen this second bill of law, so we're talking about entrepreneurship zones. I think it would be worth doing if we had some direction. 'Cause this is how we have a verse strategy. We have a verse strategy because someone will remember somewhere they want to do it and that, the state will give him land because there's something, some commission will solve it and we'll have an expensive problem. And local self-government, of course later and state, all together, so we're all state and local self-government is ultimately state. I'd also like to make a suggestion. So, I suggest that it be complemented in Article 5 of this Law and that one definition be incorporated into it, projects to build social infrastructure according to the model of building rights. I'll explain a little bit. As a strategic programme, therefore a concrete project and programme that can be developed throughout Croatia, there are no cities and no larger municipalities that have no need today in view of the age of Croats to build the Homeland War for the Old and Powerless. The state has no money, local self-government has no money, private homes in that pure private form and property don't work exactly the way we would like it, it's not something that would have been done and we have one model that applies, we're already resuscitating it in the Križevci, we're building a home for the old and powerless by this model where we're subsidizing the accommodation of the pensioners in that home and having control because our property, or the state since it's the right to build. Why do I say that? I say because with one programme of 50 locations in Croatia, out of 50 cities in Croatia, a billion kuna investment cycle with domestic capital would be employed immediately and not in one place, not in one investment but throughout Croatia, and this should be our strategic goal and plan, about 5,000 older and powerless people and 1500 new jobs would be opened. Does such a programme deserve to be considered and tried as strategic, in the Strategic Investments Act? Are those investments that deserve something like that? We're talking here today about big entrepreneurs coming. Well, that's not gonna be built by our people, that's not where our operatives are going. These major projects are being prepared strategically, so the Croatian company will win the job in the competition, none. So my proposal is to turn in this direction to try to create conditions right now, right now, not to use state or local resources, to use private investors' funds, to hire domestic operatives, and to take care of people and create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45106	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas. Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45107	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Hrg, you point out what it is to say to be an outcast local self-government and that it is absolutely unnecessary under this law, and this law is essentially based on the basic spatial-planned documents of local self-government and that is basically what I was already saying but I must repeat the obvious, foundation of development and activity and the purpose of space in line with the county plan and the state plan. But local self-government is the one that defines what will be done and built on a particular space. In this proposal, the participation of local self-government in decision-making is unquestionable. This is the first reading, so all the proposals were well-intentioned in any case and I believe that the government will read things in a way that will make things more clear. However, your failure to believe in the success of this law, I can immediately tell you that the Investment and Competitiveness Agency itself, in which it sits in the administration, in the board of directors and co-ordinated ministers, has opened up space for one part of the investment, with this coordination and jurisdiction over all the ministries and institutions owned by the state. But it was still obvious that there are problems in realisation in part of local self-government, which means when we solve problems that exist purely bureaucratic, and we know not only because of foreign analyses but because of domestic analyses and entrepreneurial analyses, that bureaucracy is one of the main problems, especially in local self-government, which is why this law will ensure that all those investments that are currently standing can go into realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45108	Replication response, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45109	Thank you very much for this replica. So I have to say that if there were no article it seems 27 to me that what you're saying now would be valid, but since we have the right in local self-government of course to make spatial plans, and then this law puts those spatial plans aside and we no longer have the influence of each other, then it's not working. It is certain that it is good that the first reading is and I believe that a lot of the quality proposals and remarks that have been made here will be put into the final draft of the law and God has given it a truly one investment swing, a cycle, some kind of rush of investors that will be, but I doubt you for a very pragmatic reason. One of the reasons why I doubt it is, let's say, experience so far in relations within the Kukuriku coalition itself because when some projects come, when certain interests begin to arise, then conflicts arise and then the problem arises. Then there's no realising that project. And I repeat, let's not generalize local self-government, let's not muddle it, don't deserve it, don't deserve it, those great mayors and mayors who have done wonders in this time behind us with very little money. There are various examples, but let’s not blame everyone else for some worse examples. But I'm saying, I hope it's like you said, God gave it to happen. I'll publicly congratulate you on that right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45110	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45111	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you said on several occasions, so I'm going to replicate something similar to what your colleague Gjurkovic did to you that it was a degrade of local self-government, that perhaps because of all the relations that the government has, and the units of local self-government should be abolished. This bill is not in the context of the need to look at it that way, nor can it be seen. First of all, the local self-government you've performed here as the pronoun of all local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Self-government and government mean nothing more than responsibility, and as some units of local self-government acted on investments, so did Mrs. Kosor, who quoted the official exactly as she did and how research says that Croatia remains a major problem of corruption at local level. And the difference is really, I wouldn't politicize in that sense if it were said that these political groups or humane combinations in certain units of local self-government are identical. Some have worked really well and have, therefore, benefited from the state especially all governments since 2000 and have given local self - government units, most often free state land for economic activity. It's been sold for cars and cars, and often it's not even known it's been sold. Therefore, great differences exist on responsibility at unit level of local self-government and where luck is that we have as many laws that will unify such behaviour and simply force units of local self-government to limit them, their self-government but strengthening responsibility. I'll just tell you an example when you were talking about your environment, so I'll tell you one example of the big city, the town of Zadar in which the neighbouring Stankovci and Poličnik have a large economic zone, especially Poličnik, and the city of Zadar has no, fifth city. Since 2005, there has been talk of a Black Economic Zone The state gave for very small and favourable money only three months ago the funds paid off. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] So what are we talking about? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45112	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45113	Well, I'm not an advocate or a representative of the entire local self-government. But here you are now actually saying the problem which is, you've been looking at local self-government through the prism of Zadar. ... [[Wait a minute, please. A little parliamentaryism, Mr. Branko Hrg responds.]] [[/Antičević-Marinović, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45114	Madam MP, that's not the way you talk in this assembly. ... You have no right to answer from the scene. [[/Antičević-Marinović, you can't hear.]] Please, let's get this over with. Mr. Representative Branko Hrg has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45115	Thank you very much. So you were actually looking through the prism of a city, which is why I said it wasn't good to look individually, but we have to look at it in general and globally. And here you have just repeated what the government has given, the government has donated. So who is the government and who has she given it to? Who are the people in local self-government? Who are the people who live in a town? Do they belong to the Croatian regiment? Is that land, that property that once the state may have taken from that community? Do people have the right to win that back? Let's not set things up like that between you and me, we're gone. So there's only one people in this country there, so you should watch it. And whether some local self-government used something or not, some state bodies, institutions make it. Well, you know, when you get something that you have the right purpose. If you have an unintentional use, unintentional spending goes to sanctions and have fun. But we're not going to implement them with this law, we're going to implement those other laws that already exist. And I know exactly what it means to bring investors and how you can get a quick construction license and bring in foreign and domestic investors and make some kind of projects. I have experience in that, and I say that this law won't solve much, but God has given something to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45116	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you have rightly warned of Article 9 which speaks of how the commission is drawn up and you have rightly warned of the fact that it is not clearly defined how representatives of the local self-government unit or regional self-government will be elected. But let's say that we have before us a proposal that will experience changes and that will define this, because yet this article clearly states that representatives of local self-government units will probably be proposed from the basic agreement of the government's representatives with representatives elected in the elections. So, with the mayors and the mayors of the municipalities or the mayors, here's what we want to believe is in good faith that's how it's gonna be. But the bigger problem seems to me to be the choice of those other members of the commission who are not defined by any key because we know that only four members of the commission have certain functions. So it's the president and the vice president and these two variable members depending on where the project needs to be realized. But the other members that may still be in this particular case and up to 7 it is unclear which criteria will be chosen. In the past experience, we can say freely they will be chosen by a similar key to the party. Because all the appointments so far have gone that way, we see what happens to hospitals, county hospitals, and clearly it goes on a similar key, a party key. Therefore, we fear that the members of this committee will decide on the key to the party and revote those representatives of the units of local self-government who may or may not agree with that proposal. What if a representative of the local self-government unit doesn't agree that it's a strategic project? If one mayor or mayor who will be in that commission will say that to me is not a strategic project. Will he be too loud by others? And of course by means of a device you have noticed that Article 28 and 27 are in fact fully for the exemption of units of local self-government and in this sense it is indeed about avoiding citizens' opinions and avoiding the opinion of local self-government and avoiding the opinion of the county councils, city councils and municipal councils. And in that sense, this is the degradation of the system that we have and the denial of the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45118	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45119	Thank you very much. Well, here is a colleague, Kosor, who also spoke about this article, and also the need to define who it is and who it is that proposes ultimately to the members of the commission. The truth is that they will be a ficus, the truth is that these members will be there for democracy. You know what it's like to know what's going on, to be able to come back and say it's going to be done with us, and then let's talk about it. And then, of course, there's going to be a problem like you said yourself if the local environment doesn't agree with some project that might want to be built somewhere and then you're going to run a whole series of activities to stop that project. So again, we have some problems that are going to happen and yet one thing that exists, so it's not good to be ficuses, it's not good to simply be a local self-government as a place of process. And just at those locations where these people live because of this investment that should be done, God gave it to God that it would be a lot that we wouldn't be able to do everything. But you can't get people living somewhere besides something that's going to be done if they don't agree to make them accept it. It's not good this way. But I think that, in principle, in this law is already everything I said earlier, that it is precisely known what these investments are about and that we do not have to put too much burden on ourselves now that there will be such problems all over Croatia. It will probably be only in some places because it is obvious that the law is written in a way that has already had its own picturebooks spoken here in this assembly and has specific locations and places that have been prepared to make some of the strategic projects that we don't know what they are and who they are and what they are. So what was said here is that a list of projects should also be made necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45120	Thank you very much. The next call came the distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hrg heard big words here today in this debate from fighting for values to tsunami investments, and it certainly did, but in the end, you were very pleased to emphasize the importance of local self-government. Not you yourself, there he was, and a colleague named Shoya spoke about it in the morning debate. But I mean everybody swears to local self-government, but then when she comes, she says she's no good, she's like this, she's holding back some way of investment in the worst form. And it's about the next thing you know, one more thing that's important to say, and it's about the quality of the investment. You first said about the commission, the way I choose the commission. So he's going to talk here you see there are high-quality investments like that, and this chief is the one I have to submit that report to is against it. So I'm absolutely, now says someone's going to offer in my middle a nuclear waste dump. I'm for investment that I always say and keep repeating the kind that will help my end, which is the milkman, possibly the slaughterhouse for a few more years because soon it won't need what kind of agricultural policy is going on. It's that job, and therefore, of course, it needs to be brought into line with the needs of the local community, the local community. And secondly, it is certainly important to highlight the importance of entrepreneurship zones. Many mayors and mayors have also made significant efforts on infrastructure for these entrepreneurial areas where possible. If we were to fill these business areas with investments and projects, that would be work and jobs, not in this way how we witness every day that the number of unemployed in the office is increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45122	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45123	Thank you very much. Col. Milinkovic's local self-government doesn't get anything, it just returns a part of what she has paid into the state budget and then has to go scratching on the door of the clerks and bureaucrats to get a part of it back. If we had the right fiscal decentralisation, if the heads of municipalities and cities knew exactly how much per capita resources per year local self-government would have nothing to ask. But then the state administration would lose its strength, lose its power because it wouldn't have it then, it wouldn't be able to blackmail, it couldn't be done as it is done. We have an example now when we talk about development strategies. Here lies are evaluated. They're very handsomely rated the same thing, I'm going to have to ask for an answer that way. As it says in the renegade you've met all the conditions, all is well but no more money. And then you see that some of them got 900 grand and more, and some of them didn't get anything. And they just happen to be somewhere in the middle. That's how you do it. That's what we can expect here. So, if we really wanted to take the right job and do a law, the strategic investment law would have to be determined regionally what part of Croatia we would strategically push, encourage and what we would do. At that point, we could start talking about some kind of real strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45124	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45125	Here I am going to deny Mr. Hrg that units of local self-government are being ignored and they are being forced into solutions. In one simple example. We had a recent law that was amended to make it more effective, so the government appointed supervisory committees, so that the supervisory board of a state-owned company consisted of five members consisted exclusively of professional people of non-partisan personnel, two from the Economic Institute, lawyers and builders, in a way that this same government, which was appointed at the 4th month of the 12th month, disbanded such a supervisory board, appointed one member of the party to that supervisory board. The company remains at the state budget of 157 thousand square meters of land is empty, no project is being implemented, and that is what is denying you that units of local self-government are being ignored in this section. What I'm afraid of, I'm afraid, is that a similar situation with such a bill, especially in that part, is back to Article 28, which cancels in that sense urban and spatial plans in the event of a permit, giving the government some kind of commission in which there will be two members, two representatives of the local self-government unit that will decide what will be in its field of strategic project. I am responsible here because there have been such words that units of local self-government are self-will, corruption, and I don't know what's not mentioned, and no institution is so controlled as many units of local self-government from state audits, financial inspections from all of that. And all these leaders and authorities in local self-government units have been elected in direct democratic elections, have their programmes, their strategies and what they intend to do. This law should primarily be a collection of all these strategic projects of units of local and regional self-government in our country with strategic projects of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are certainly part of the Križišće, Žuta Lokva, Ravnikarska railway and all those capital projects to the Pelješko bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45126	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45127	... So it's definitely centralization, and instead of what was written in the decentralisation programs, we have centralised. [[Specially enabled.]] Since I've been in this business for a long time, my hair was going up like that when someone mentioned decentralisation. Whenever decentralisation was mentioned, then local self-government suffered because something had been lifted, something had been moved, something had gone somewhere and all this to the burden and to the harm of the citizens. It's amazing what's happening to us that's the process. But I'm glad that a few of my local leaders here have now come forward that it doesn't turn out that I'm the only one talking about local self-government, that's a lot of talk, thank you for bringing up some institutions and zones and everything. I ask the question, where in this law of the development agency, where are the entrepreneurship centres, will this law give new increases to the bureaucratic apparatus, will there be new employment in the state administration? Why don't we use development agencies and entrepreneurship centres that already have each for their own area of a particular strategy worked out, why they're not also present in this part, why they're not the ones who can propose and who can actively participate in this so that they finally get some function. Because as our laws are made up they basically exist but the less and less they have some functions that should generally become their own purpose, and that's our problem. Something we leave behind is soon becoming our own purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45128	Thank you very much. The next replica of the distinguished representative, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45129	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you said that local self-government should not be defiled because, according to your experiences, it proved correct in the realisation of investment investments, that you actually had more problems with state institutions. I fully agree with you. We have indeed a lot of good examples of quality cooperation between local self-governments in the realisation of investments. However, this law is not adopted because of these positive examples. He brings himself to eliminate those bad examples. And I'm going to set an example for you right now. So it's about an example of investors from Russia who I know personally, who three years ago decided to build two high-class hotels in Podgorica. So these were supposed to be high-priced hotels that would employ about 200 workers. And this Russian investor paid a total municipal contribution to the local self-government budget, it was about millions of amounts, because local self-government didn't have its own resources to finance the spatial plan, the urban plan, and I don't know what other plans. So that money was spent by local self-government on other intents and now the Russian investor is in a situation to beg the help of Croatian institutions. I ask you what do you think this investor thinks and what kind of "references" will pass on to other Russian investors, and we know that the Russians have great resources, that they have big capital and that they are very interested in investment in Croatia but not in this way. So I repeat, the law is passed just to prevent such bad examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45130	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45131	Thank you very much. Well, it's okay to settle bad examples by law, and it's good if the good ones are even moved to go even stronger and faster. That's why I'm talking about dressing up local self-government because through the debate it was because what's definitely in this law is marginalized completely. And it's not just saying I repeat in this, it's in many laws that are being passed. And I'd just like to remind you here a little bit. Let's do an analysis, let's do an analysis of how in '93 local self-government was drawn up this way specifically refers to municipalities and cities to see how many of these small units of local self-government and municipalities, there are examples that it's not ok. but how many municipalities have made with the minimum resources of projects, how much effort has been made and what Croatia looked like in '93 in those environments today. How much water the villages had at the time, how many villages had no asphalt, today it seems different. And it's credit to the people who live there who have organized themselves who have made a huge effort to make some better living conditions there. And that's why we can't degrade local self-government, so we just have to give her her, her role in it all together and give her the importance that she can actively participate in it that she's not really demoted, and especially this other thing I'm saying is that she's not muddying in the debates. Because really if someone tried to be in local self-government, I would recommend it to you all. After that, they'd probably talk differently. I understand people who may have never been in charge of local self-government, so they have no experience, when you try it a little, it looks a little different. So absolutely in any case I hope that every law will bring something better, some progress, eliminate what is bad and improve what has been good so far to be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45132	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected vice president of Mr. Milorad Batinic's Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45133	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you'll probably be glad to... Another colleague from the local self-government will allow you longer, longer debates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this part, you have said that these strategic projects that will be declared strategic projects should be attracted to existing industrial or business zones where capacities are not filled. However, it is also very difficult to define it through the Law itself. It's an intensity that imposes itself. And every investor, he was private, whether he's a state investor, which allows this law to go where he's cheaper building. If it is a communal, business, municipally equipped zone, whether it is industrial or business, if it meets the requirements and criteria of the project, so the government does not need to initiate it, the investor himself will, but will manage and find himself in that part. As for this second part, you said development strategies, of course, I agree. We know very well in the local environment unless you have a defined development strategy which is said to be a dynamic document, it changes according to the needs, that it is very difficult and manages the city itself and development projects from the level of the local community. However, it turns out that up to a year and a half ago we had a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, a sectoral strategy, unfortunately there was nothing. If it were, I believe that today they would be as a guideline and a guideline for these strategic projects as well as that they could be upgraded as a strategy. I agree with you about not generalising the situation in the local community, there are positive and negative examples. But it also turns out that up until a year and a half ago, local communities were flowering roses. That it was also decentralised and that we had all the resources we wanted, I'm sorry about the needs of the projects. And now all of a sudden for the last year and a half, nothing's wrong. I can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45134	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45135	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Vice President, for what you said. In fact, because business zones have been done, I don't think it's burned that in such a proposal of the law, it's being stated somewhere that, in some way, the legal framework itself is focusing attention in this direction. Because it's very hard to fill the zone, you know, here's my example again. It's very difficult to fill a zone if you're conjecturing a strategic zone I don't know by building a fast road or highway. And then you keep coming from the state level to interrupt work, so the state officials come and take pictures there, say the roads are not working, so the minister writes that the works will be cut off. And then I'm supposed to bring in an investor, how do I bring him in when I have that area tied up on that road. And then I was later called by the Resolute Ministry or some state bodies that we didn't fill the zone. You see what one is, so I'm saying it would be good, I mean it's in good interest to put it in a direction, that's where the money's invested, that's where it's going to be, that's where the investment's headed, that's where the money's going, that's where the money's going, that's where the investment's going, that's where it's going, that's where it's going, that's where it's going, that's where the money's going, that's where it's going, that's where it's going, that's where it's going to be, that's where it's going to be. As far as this is concerned, we had no. We didn't have one. But I won't talk about it at all, whether or not it was something. What I know, what I know, I've been through all the government and the government that was in 2000/2003. and 2003/2007, and 2007/2011. And this one right now, I definitely say people, responsiblely I say, it's not like, at least for me, it's good for others, but that environment where I'm moving, the colleagues I'm talking to, it's definitely very hard to function at this time in local self-government. Maybe some of them are fine. But if someone's okay and some aren't, then we don't have the right rules of the game, we don't act right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45136	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. And now it is up to the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45137	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a few thoughts to share with my colleagues. What is the economic, economic environment we live in today’s 7th month 2013? We've heard something today. It's not a waste of time. Credit rating of the Republic of Croatia... GDP's main decline 2%, this year's first quarter 1.5%, the decline in trade to little 2%, the decline in industrial production in the 5th month, 5%, per year of global competitiveness for 2013. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia took 58th place out of 60 leading world economies. Behind us Argentina and Venezuela and all the countries of the European Union far ahead of us. Unemployment June 2012 295 thousand, unemployment June 2013. 315 grand, 20,000 newly unemployed in a year. What, what an announcement, what's coming to us... A highway to save the budget, a 50-year concession for 3.2 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How this government reacts to that moment that we live in today. What she told us in preparation for this, in preparation for the adoption of this Law. Says the Deputy Prime Minister who has the right to stop golfing in Dubrovnik, so he'll sue us. The investment law refers only to 1.8% of Croatia's land, says Mrs. Mrak-Taritash. And then the prime minister, the Strategic Investment Act, will make it impossible to blackmail local players. A system is coming in which strategic decisions will be centralized, not as in a medieval kingdom or an enlightened empire, but as a modern state. And at the end of the cream, the special law doesn't have to comply with the general laws. The important thing is he's not anti-constitutional. What did the public debate say? Everyone who thinks a little bit about this law has come forward in the past few months and in turn everyone is against it. The only ones who are in favor of... The Republic of Croatia, and we see today all clubs of the ruling coalition. He said one wisdom, the money a man has is a weapon of freedom, the money a man runs for is a weapon of slavery. Why? That's what this law is talking about, he's the answer and the finale of everything I've just stated. What to say about the law that was made for investors, and in the text of the law when we talk about investors nowhere mentions the words of property or sales that permanently direct just about every investor. Various spins stick to us in the belief that the proposed law will achieve the desired effect, i.e. that strategic investors will flock by investing in concessions on forests, fields, maritime goods and will be willing to build on them without proof of ownership. Pure illusion and manipulation. The proposal for a law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia is just another proof that the current political elite that the government has fallen into its lap has no idea what to do with it. The only thing they know is that they need to keep the government as long as possible and at all costs. The adoption of such a form of legislation as proposed by the Ministry of Economy as a rescue remedy for the launch of investments will allow the sale of many real estates and public goods owned by the Croatian State in an urgent administrative procedure, without excessive reasons. For strategic projects worth 150 million more, there will be no more appeal procedures, long-term public debates, evaluations and environmental impact studies and similar ones, as we often say in our society, civil reluctances, or those traditional delays. As they explain, strategic projects will not be bothered by the spatial and urban plans of local self-government, as well as by all the long-term bureaucratic procedures of their changes or adoption. The implementation of the strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia will not require the application of all other laws in the Republic of Croatia that regulate an area. They will only be subject to this proposed law under which the main regulatory role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. an individual resolution ministry and commission appointed by that same Government, will apply. It's going to be about the likes of it because somewhere we're lost in the meantime, and local self-government. This law offers the transfer of practically all powers in deciding on the future of a given space in public goods status to a centralised body without public and local participation. This actually means suspending professional and transparent treatment and moving completely into the area of political decision. As we speak here about particularly natural and culturally sensitive areas, coastal areas, risks of abolishing the obligation to draw up implementation plans are too great. When we talk about risks, when I talk about risks, I don't just think about the risks of destroying the building space, I mean also the risks of investors because the implementation plan is necessary and it takes a part of the project documentation to ensure the basic conditions of operation of the new assembly, from access roads, drains, water supply, electricity. I therefore find it unimaginable that any serious investor would deny this part of the elaborate or elaborate to protect its value of investment. Urbanist plans are more than that, they are the sole guarantee of at least the minimum levels of professional and public support, and without which no more important project can be managed successfully. In Croatia we do not have any form of document of the Development Strategy, we have heard this already today. Then where do we get the basis for strategic projects? This law doesn't speak of her. Contrary to this arbitration attempt, it is necessary to decide, through a broad and high-quality public debate, on the strategic and spatial objectives of our country. We have already heard today, for example, that development is directed exclusively at the already spent range of military, tourist, industrial and in-house complexes, and then we create a set of targeted and concrete measures to open the door to investment. The additional danger... of the law is the non-integration of any protection mechanism that would define the obligation to implement projects, guarantees and anything that would make it impossible to resell land easily once they are included on the list of strategic projects. My concrete observations refer to Article 7 as it enables the list of strategic investment projects realised by public undertakings or realised through a public-private partnership to be lost, since neither public or private companies in a public-private partnership are required to submit evidence of their financial capacity, while projects implemented through public undertakings do not require a confirmation of compliance with tax obligations and contributions. Article 9 does not define the composition of more than half of the evaluation committee and the establishment of a proposal for strategic projects, which allows the arbitration selection of members of the commission, without any criteria relating to their expertise or the sector represented in the commission. This remains a huge corruption risk, as it allows for the overcoming of the particular ones in relation to the public interest. Today, the most mentioned, Article 28 continues to be quite unambiguous and without any further development or clarifications for strategic projects, the legal obligation to draw up implementing spatial plans. It significantly reduces the control of construction in the Croatian most sensitive landscapes and practically the doctrine of public insight and participation in the project. On the other hand, this provision significantly increases all business risks that may result from the lack of infrastructure networks of imbalances with other procedures in space or poor publicity caused by the public inviolability of such projects. And finally, to conclude that this is about the desire for these dead capital that the government has in store for the current practice and ways of working for this government, I am afraid that this bill, when it is passed, will remain a dead letter on paper, and Croatia will not see any investment under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45138	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45139	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boric, you've recited such a little something, a little and cynically, that this law is for investors. Well, of course, whom but investors are made, and investments are both domestic and foreign included in this law, in this bill because they are essentially driving employment, growth of gross products, the development of the country. Small and medium-sized investments not included at this time are included in a way that no large investment can be realised without the involvement of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e. that part of the economy. The law does not give more rights than is currently prescribed by the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia. It's clear from this law only speeds up processes. Your debate in which you show that this, somehow this law is some weapon of slavery, I must also admit that I do not understand in what context you want to show it because your introduction that defined statistical data from the Institute of Statistics and those analyses that are known about Croatia's competitiveness in 58 places. We haven't been any better in the past few years just indicates that the need for a response from the responsible authorities and this Croatian Parliament to bring conditions and regulate relations in which this competitiveness in terms of investments will be adequate, yet I stress in accordance with all existing laws and respect for all laws and procedures, but this time in one place, so that as soon as possible with a hodogram of accurate events and dates, we can go into the realisation of investments to be a country in which red tape is not said to rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45140	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Boric, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45141	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, I gave my view of this law in my own way. I don't think I hurt anyone or said anything wrong. I think this is one level of running right after that money because we've derivated all the laws. Only by the provision of Article 28 of the Good Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, because we believe that it is not to be respected by urban plans or detailed plans and that it is sufficient reason for someone to come to invest. I have stated why he will not come to invest because he too wants to protect himself, and he has a piece of 10, 20 acres of land and there rewards some object without knowing what it is surrounding, what kind of access it will have, where it will connect to water supply, where on the drain, who will solve it is not enough to write in the law that you wrote that it is enough that the project is in accordance with the spatial-planning documentation because it cannot in any way be it except in the part where we can locate one such project whether it is in the construction zone, whether it is in the tourist zone or any other special purpose zone. Because I just can't look at it any other way. And if you weren't thinking about investors, I'd say at first. They don't primarily care if they can get it through this. You say concessions, so maybe somebody wants to be 50, 100 years old. Why not? Maybe not, we'll see about that. What is he going to do with that property in a bank or somewhere else where, with such a form of ownership as the concession, it's a question. But to me, it's inconceivable that we now announce to the state service that someone will have the right to the championship in determining, say, the limit of maritime goods just because we want a hotel right on the sea line or what? Why does the Borders Committee not work on a continuous basis and establish the limits of maritime goods? Where's our Marine Good Law? We'll sort it out in a few people, operating teams, commissions, in some places, and negotiate, of course. And then, of course, everything will turn out as great as the last year and a half, and the level of investment has never been less.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45142	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boris, you quoted the prime minister as saying it was centralisation, but not some centralisation that could be compared to the Middle Ages as you quoted it. Unfortunately, and cannot be compared because in the Middle Ages there were also responsible rulers who cared about the opinions of their subjects and citizens in the area in which they ruled unlike government provisions that did not care about opinions, so Article 28, as you rightly warned, actually avoid hearing the opinion of citizens in whose area this investment would be realised. Because it means avoiding detailed arrangements and urban planning. This means avoiding public debate in the area, in these cities, in those units of local self-government. Because the process of making these spatial-planned documents must be carried out through public debate, citizens of these units of local self-government must give their opinion, their position on such investments. So here you avoid hearing the opinion of the citizens. This is about a difficult usurpation that is absolutely inappropriate to European rules. Let the government's representatives go to Brussels and see how the Congress of Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government works, see what rules apply to those institutions, see how the EU treats these institutions. While they were in the opposition, they advocated decentralisation. Today neither D of decentralisation, we have in place a centralization of the right of units of local self-government, units of local and regional self-government. So a very dangerous situation, and it really leads to what my colleague Hrg said, and then you'll end the local self-government if you already intend to usurp the rights of the local and regional and regional self-government units. This is really about unscrupulous usurpation of rights and citizens and units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45144	Thank you very much. The replica is answered by the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45145	Thank you. I will again quote Mr. Prime Minister's statement to you, "A system is coming in which strategic decisions will be centralized not as in some medieval kingdom or an average empire but as in a modern state". We've identified centralization, actually, with a modern state. Everyone who's decentralised is essentially not modern, they're medieval, Renaissance, or I don't know what kind. It's a danger, we don't have a number of laws, we've got local self-government, she's practically breathing more and more, the budgets are getting smaller, there's no investment from the state level. When he's trying to warn the government that something doesn't make sense that something isn't going well, we're completely wrong. We're always like something against. Let's look at the situation today at the border with Neum, mileage control, 15 to 20km gentlemen. We knew we'd join the EU. Nobody's listening to local self-government, not opposition. These are the universal minds that are then explained to us by various spins as big steps. When one article is annulled by a few laws and everything that's been built hard for years to become some rule of conduct you say we don't need anything, we don't need anything, we'll sort it out in some commission. Of course, that area of corruption and everything else we warned about is opening up. We warned the secretary of the administration what would happen in the local elections if here's the experience showing. There will come a time when what we have been saying will come to the disbanding councils, mayors, captains, in order not to adopt, say, budgets and everything else and that will come. And why wait for that local self-government? There's a dictation waiting if you've followed the government's announcements well, they're thinking about removing a number of local self-governments that they estimate are not high enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45146	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Boric from your debate if this can come down to two, three important principles comes down to the following, the first thing we are talking about is the degradation of units of local and self-government in the part where the right of units of local and self-government is denied to regulate urban senses of its own space. And we've heard about it, and I wouldn't talk about it. But what this law does is damage in terms of space management. Namely, anyone who has worked out spatial plans whether they are county levels, urban, municipal, whether they are urban planning arrangements or detailed arrangements, know that these spatial planning documents are practically an incentive to invest in Croatia and there is absolutely no doubt about it. To end the process of realising a project that is being developed in a tourist, industrial, entrepreneurial zone of several tens of hectares, to abolish the need to create a detailed plan of arrangement or urban planning, it is as if a house without foundation is beginning to be built. There is no expert in Croatia who can issue a local permit as this law predicts directly from the spatial plan an arrangement for a greenfield investment that develops in space around 50 hectares, there is no such thing. Because he doesn't even know the basic parameters, and that's where his roads are, he doesn't know where his entire infrastructure is, how he's going to connect that building later to the infrastructure without that document. And I am sure that entrepreneurs, or future investors, will seek for themselves before they are granted a building permit to build this document because without it, they will not be able to develop the project or the absence of the project will be the biggest barrier in the realisation of its project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45148	Thank you very much. The respected Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45149	I agree, my colleague Bacic, that's what I was talking about. Anyone who wants to invest 150 million kunas or 20 million euros wants to protect that capital. And he doesn't care if he came up on some kind of ice to build some kind of object that he doesn't know anything about, what he's going to follow in it or where he's going to connect or what he's going to do tomorrow with such an object in the space at all. What if he even gets government decisions to build an opportunity and at some point he wants to sell it? We don't know what's going to happen. Can he even sell such an object? Where does that say? Nowhere. The ownership and sale in the sense of investors in this law is not mentioned at all in a single word, and that is what permanently directs everything. And then what happens to us? Someone on the coast will come, they'll want to build a hotel on the beach, who wouldn't want to make it, directly at sea, on the beach. You'll get a chance, the public will remember at some point that someone next to them is building a hotel for them. Why do we think that they will be well-intentioned according to such a 20-story hotel project that rewards the environment and their spaces? Why do we think? It's all wrong. And that is why this debate should be directed by the legislator to think very carefully about why it abolishs or the doctrine of urban or detailed plans, because there will be an event of the people in certain destinations when they all appear and all of them go through the conditions until they arrive at the investment. Through urban plans, detailed plans had the right to insight, public debate and adoption at the city or municipal council level. Everyone was interested in something. Now that someone shows up out of nowhere with the project and says I'm going to build problems here. If that's the point, it's a bad goal and it doesn't contribute to anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45150	Thank you very much. The next debate came from a respected representative, Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45151	I thank the esteemed vice president, deputy, respected colleagues and colleagues. In his debate, Boric presented a number of macroeconomic indicators of the current situation in Croatia, and they are not really good. They're bad. However, Croatia's unequivocal biggest problem at the moment is high unemployment, or low employment. In Croatia, therefore, only every other working citizen works, which is far worse than the European average. At this point, as a colleague said, we have 315 thousand unemployed people, we have the third highest unemployment rate in Europe, so it's 19.6%, so all this stuff is bad, but why am I talking about it? Because just those 315 thousand unemployed can no longer wait for mass more jobs to start for them. The truth opens up jobs now. Here in the last five months, hundreds and 2,000 have been opened. The problem, however, is that unfortunately more jobs are closing down. And that's not the problem since yesterday, nor is the problem of a year and a half as much as he's trying and how he's trying to suggest the opposition. So this is a lasting consequence of the poor structure of the Croatian economy, a structure that is unadjusted to the global market and unfortunately the last two decades have not been used to at least change this structure even though the conditions for it existed, although capital was both cheaper and incomparably more accessible than is now the case. And when you do not make the necessary changes under normal circumstances, then at a time when you no longer have the choice to do them in a more radical way or, as fellow Milosevic said, with a certain shortcut. So this Law is indeed a kind of shortcut, but it is a fact that the Law is not passed on to a shortcut. The assumption of a larger number of jobs being investments, it's unmistakable, investment, innovation, industry, exports, integration, it's those famous 5i that were actually the taste of the Kukuriku coalition strategy. The government is tasked with creating conditions for economic activity and economic growth, and this law has precisely that purpose, therefore, to boost investment and speed up the process of their realisation. Namely, one of the primary objections of potential investors in Croatia, and this was also said by fellow Milosevic that Germany had said to invest anywhere but in Croatia, so these basic remarks were, whether they were foreign or whether it was domestic investors that we had a complicated and long-term administrative procedure when the documentation was made for investment investments. And that's true. That's really true. So we've set a thousand obstacles. Investment in Croatia is actually a race with groins and it's on a path that you don't know how long it's actually going to be. And now that that's trying to get rid of it, now this law is being welcomed "on the knife", I literally have to say so and I'm literally looking for "hair in the egg." I think it's declassified in this situation, so in a situation where in 2012 we had less than a billion kunas, or euros, I apologize, direct investment with the fact that we didn't actually have them in the last quarter of 2012. For comparisons, I will only say that we had 4.2 billion euros of direct investment in Croatia before the 2008 crisis. I also think that it was declassified at the moment when we have the highest unemployment rate in the last 10 years, which I have talked about in the introduction, saying that this law is being passed for the sale of Croatian national resources. Because the fact is that even to date, private landowners could be ruled out under existing laws if it was a public interest and the private owner has obstructed the realisation of the investment project. The state cannot be a hostage of narrow private interest and neither can the state interest be subordinated to the local interest and we spoke in the replicas of our fellow Croatian. counterpart Milosevic said there are disastrous examples of mistreatment of local self-government units related to investments. Therefore, that very statement suggests that when it comes to the strategic interest of the state, this same interest cannot be blocked by the narrow local interest of a particular municipal chief or mayor. Of course, this does not mean denying the right of local self-government to participate in the decision-making of strategic investment projects. So local self-government will have its own representatives in the investment committee, and I'll call it that for a short while. All in all, it is obvious that we have an investment problem in Croatia. In fact, we'd like investors to come and do everything we want, as in our interest, not to build malls, but to build production plants, therefore, industrial plants. We'd like everything to be modeled "wolve-sit-a-sheep-a-number". Obviously that's not how it works, investors build where they want, invest where they want, and what they want. Therefore, the realisation of investment investment will only occur if the domestic interest is brought into line with the interest of a foreign or domestic investor. What I want to stress in the end is that this law does not take any public goods, that it does not destroy any procedures and procedures, it only significantly accelerates them. So it's important to emphasize. It's important to speed up procedures. What takes years under this Law should last incomparably shorter because the law clearly lays down rules for investors, sets concrete procedures and deadlines for investors, but also for state administrations, and all this should in fact ensure far greater and more transparency and accountability both for the investor and for the state administration in the realisation of certain investment projects. In fact, the procedure for declaring a project strategically is very thorough. The administrative check of the projects received is carried out by the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the economy, and the Government declares some project strategic on the proposal of the Committee for the Assessment and Determination of the Proposals of Strategic Projects. The project, declared by a strategic project, is included in the list of strategic projects. Therefore, all procedures for the preparation and implementation of strategic projects, as well as appeal procedures, are considered urgent and are therefore the most important element of this law again, undermining deadlines. So, deadlines. Any derogation from the prescribed deadlines shall be qualified as a serious violation of the official duty while a fine of 5000 kuna per day of delay is provided for by the administrative authority. So, indeed, the measures in the law are rigorous, which speaks of the government's commitment to make this law an effective tool to strengthen the investment climate in the country, to start economic growth, and then, consequently, to open up space for new employment. As this legislative proposal is in the first reading in today's very broad debate, I hope that the representatives of the proposing government will get enough material, that all this material will shake up and that what is best in it will be included in this legislative proposal so that it will be as high-quality as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45152	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused 7 replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45153	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelash, you and I agree that the number of unemployed is large, but that's a big part of the results of this government too. 20,000 a year is not small. Let's remember the record numbers of 375000 in February. That's what all of us have to worry about. Tourism failed to take everything from the bureau that could once have been. Tourism can no longer suck up everything that runs out of work in other activities. And we've come to a problem here where you claim that this law can improve that segment of employment. This may be the start of something where employment could be seen in two or three years if everything is settled as the investor wills. But that's what this is about, and you've talked about it yourself that we have a problem with some kind of administrative barriers, so that's why there's no investment coming. I think it's not obvious because we had a lot more investment in one legislation that preceded this and then nobody bothered. Now we've changed a few hundred laws in a year, so everything's in the way. That doesn't make sense. It has been my fault since the beginning of the tax policy that has made us the most expensive country in Europe, by direction maybe in the world. It's expensive to invest here. Real estate is expensive, land is expensive and tax presses are the largest of all EU countries. Maybe that's the reason. Maybe we should start creating preconditions there that we don't need stories like this, spins and laws like this to save things quickly. Nothing will be saved because it's impossible with this power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45154	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nadica Jelash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45155	Dear colleague Boric, you know very well that this large number of unemployed did not come overnight. That's what I said in my debate. It's a fact. It is simply the result of the structure, the poor structure of the Croatian economy which has not changed, so I will not say just the last 20 years, the last 50 years. So, the textile industry collapsed, the woodworking industry collapsed, the shoe industry. Very, very little remains left only in fragments. So the fact is that it was also necessary to change the economic structure, to create such a structure that would be able to absorb a larger number of employees. As far as tax policy is concerned, we have done what we think is good, so we went to work-restriction in a way that we have reduced the labour price through a reduction in health insurance contributions and in this way actually left the entrepreneurs somewhere around 2.6 billion kuna. Now, where did the entrepreneurs invest? Did they invest or spend in buying consumer goods, that's on their souls.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45156	Thank you very much. The replica was also reported by the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45157	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, you said that this law was long awaited and that he was now welcomed to the knife and that the hair in the egg was sought. I didn't experience anyone in this assembly against this law. I think that everyone who discusses, discusses in a way that the law is detailed, to be clearer, to really do something, to improve to start some economic development of Croatia. But that it also makes it impossible for one narrow, small group of people to manipulate, that they can declare some projects strategic, and that on the other hand some other projects that might be the same strategic for someone are in another plan. It is not normal for one law to speed up the licensing process, and for all others, we do not allow licenses to be issued as quickly as possible. That's the point of the whole story. So we need to know what these strategic projects are, as far as they're concerned, the exact rules of the game and we need to make sure that all those who invest something can quickly or as quickly as possible result in the necessary documentation. This is how it is talked about already one irregular position again, one degradation of different projects and potential manipulation. And it doesn't matter here any narrow local interests because people living somewhere have the right to decide who they're going to have in their neighborhood, give their hearths to someone who may be in danger for centuries or have the right to live there. And according to this law, if this is how the state goes, it can become a hostage of narrow private interest because it is not clear what strategic project is going to be. So someone can come a private entrepreneur with some of their own interests and the commission will determine it and he will be the one who wants to exercise his narrow interest in principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45158	Thank you very much. You'll also get an answer from Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45159	Your Honor, I'm glad you're not against the law, but you can read your kind of support out of certain debates, but in a way that respects your remarks. Of course, you who have been engaged and worked in local self-government are competent to make such remarks and I sincerely hope that representatives and some of these remarks will respect them. It is your concern that a small group will decide on investments and that speeding up licences for only one group of investors represents a kind of discrimination. No, I don't. So here in this law it is about strategic projects which are of particular interest to the state and in which case the state must be the one to decide on them. So it can't be a local or private interest to be a brakesman of the realisation of these state investments because in law we've stated exactly what the criteria are that something can be treated by a strategic project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45160	Thank you very much. The next will be a replica of the distinguished representatives of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45161	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Jelash insults your statement when you say that you see hair in your egg in this law. A law seeking to avoid the creation of an urban plan for a detailed planning of regulation aims to avoid such an investment being in the public eye of citizens in the area. Do you know that for the construction of a local self-government cemetery, there is a need to develop a detailed plan of arrangements and obviously that units of local self-government do not have as much confidence as in a private investor when it has to go to public insight, public debate and everything that comes before and after, and for one such investment not. So which of the cities or municipalities is against an investment that brings new jobs and which won't be tarnished in space? I don't think there will be those units of local self-government and citizens who will be against all those incomes that are prior to building an object of meaning from the communal contribution of connections and so on and later on when the investment is over and when new jobs are opened all those incomes from employment, taxes and cuts. I ask you and who will pay the costs of litigation that are inevitable after the law is passed when one such object of ours in space knows that spatial plans only have rough provisions, so they don't have so much precision or urgency or access to a local road, so in spatial plans we know that we only have the level of county roads. We don't know exactly what's going on with the infrastructure, and when one such investor spends it all on the project, it's going to be a license and it's either the people or it doesn't get a permit at all, I wonder who's going to bear all the costs. The city of Vodice has such experience, 12 years of litigation because the people took place after the issued permits for a more residential facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45162	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Nadica Jelash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45163	Dear colleagues, I hope it won't be because there shouldn't be any litigation. Namely, all investment projects to be declared strategic projects should be in line with local self-government space-plan documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45164	The next replica is the respected representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelash, I must admit that I find your point of view that the local self-government of this law has not been demoted, that its importance and role in this law has not been demoted because you literally say so they will participate in the work of the committee to determine strategic projects. In my view, such an attitude is unacceptable because what is unacceptable to the European Charter of Local Self-Government is what is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by local self-government, it is the right to bring a document of the arrangements of the documents it prescribes a way of managing the area where these units of local self-government extend, and not to say that in that context it is also degraded and the importance of units of regional self-government i.e. County. The fundamental right which is the Constitution and the laws have given the units of local self-government to this law is derivated and practically the basic work of a city council of a county assembly, which is the adoption of spatial-planned documents thrown out of your hands. Not to say that in this sense it can be asked then and the issue of constitutional equality is raised. Then why an investment worth 148 million kuna should be subject to a whole procedure that is overlooked by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and for an investment that is all exceeding 2 million kunas and is questionable whether they will have more employees or have two or three employees compared to that investment that weighs 148 million kuna where 100 people may be employed. And he's not going to work DPU or UPU and this guy has to work because he didn't get into the project as predicted by this law. I think that such an attitude is not good and that, in this sense, it is necessary to work fatly on this Law that it was of the same constitutional legal basis for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45166	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues Jelash, this law you've explained certainly has its own good side and there are disadvantages. So on the one hand, it's good that there are two readings that can correct all these important things that aren't even correct and that go to the burden of local self-government or rule out local self-government. On the other hand, its established objective stemming from the need for the urgent launch of the investment cycle will not be achieved so quickly. And it won't be like it's written urgently starting an investment cycle. What if, in these two years, the property tax that Mr. Linic has repeatedly announced, which constantly threatens entrepreneurs and tells them that they are the ones who have impoverished our citizens. How about when there were 256 thousand unemployed in 2009 before the end of 2009, and today we see what the figure is. I don't know why he doesn't wear his number today with the number of unemployed. I also wonder what a thorough check is for strategic projects made by committees. Then they should have written them here let all strategic projects be in this law. All non-functional facilities, including the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, all state institutions that can be placed in full office and for which individual entrepreneurs or investors are interested could be numbered. The same would be fair if, as for those investors who will receive the good in the concession, the Croatian Parliament had decided for more than 50 years. So for all these projects that will be on the list Croatian Parliament makes a decision then it would be fair, fair, crystal clear to whom it is given and why it is given.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45168	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer, Honorable Representatives of Nadice Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45169	Dear Representative Djakic. I have to say that this is an intervention law that respects the current situation, which really wants to run something about investment because this situation with this number of unemployed is really unsustainable. And when you mention Linic, therefore, Linic introduces order and those who so far did not respect order, who did not pay state taxes, you are unhappy, you really do not get along in this situation. There are those who beat others who want to obey the laws of this country. So that's the way to look at the Minister of Finance's moves. He wants to bring order into this country. Unfortunately, there has been no order so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45170	Thank you very much. The next call came a respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jelash, you said in your presentation the realisation of investment is about the narrow interest of unit leaders of local self-government. So do you think the leaders of the local administration and self-government are crazy enough to work against themselves? I don't believe that. You forget and you need to know that the bill of this law was actually talking about that program of the 21st Kukurik coalition. And it's pompous. It's been 20 months and this law hasn't even passed the first reading. By the time there's another reading, it'll be two years, two years of this government. Today's government doesn't really need new laws, that's my opinion. You need one impression, consistency, credibility to create an investment climate. And today, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr Domagoj Milosevic spoke to you about the climate. Otherwise, it will be difficult for you to experience new investments with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45172	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Nadia Jelash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45173	Dear colleague Babic, you didn't get what I said in the debate. So, no local leaders would work against themselves, but they work for themselves in one number, you know. For myself. One large number does the right thing, but there are others, I don't know if you were here in the assembly, so you heard that negative example I set. And as for what you notice about passing the law, I will remind you that in the previous term we have proposed more than 30 legislative proposals. You haven't adopted any, unfortunately. Here you have not so far in a year and a half and a little more mandates proposed any legislative proposal. Why don't you suggest? That's not true. [[Intruder: When you won't adopt it.]] We wouldn't behave the way you did. So you also said you'd form a shadow government. So what happens, there's no government in, left just a shadow from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45174	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the respected vice-president of Mr. Milorad Batinic's Parliament. ... And I'm sorry, no, in a little order, first of all, the replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45175	Well, here's the Honorable Vice President. The representative said this law is significantly speeding up. Now I'm asking myself what's making it so much faster? It may significantly accelerate the transfer of land from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia to some private or not know which investor. However, everything else stands in three basic problems, cadastre, unresolved property-legal relations, length of procedure and... the economic infrastructure the predecessors spoke of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One who has not worked operationally in the implementation of any program can also talk about the project. The long-term resolution of property-legal relations by just a few hundred square meters on some kind of particle by court, appeal and everything else if it goes in that direction will last for years. That's what we're all witnessing, and I'm personally the most constantly in these problems. And they're going to slow down the realization as much as you think this law is bad. This is what I'm saying from the opposition, but I don't think so at all. I really want to pass a law that will trigger, encourage investment and that will design a strategy in which to implement them. The adoption of this law alone, without bringing into it the interest of the Republic of Croatia, will simply not be possible. And what offends me personally is that the good part of the leader is doing for himself. That's what you said. I can responsibly confirm that no leader is working for himself, and if anyone is working for himself, I guess there are the institutions of this country that need to solve it. Three basic problems are: cadastre, unresolved property-legal relations, undeveloped economic infrastructure. And if this is the law, I'm going to point out to my colleagues, and I'm going to be thinking in the field that I'm going to take property owned by a local self-government unit into the core capital of a company that we're going to set up as a business zone so that some kind of emergency procedure doesn't solve something that's going to happen in this space of ours. I have an obvious example where the obligation to adopt an urban plan has prevented the devastation of the Bay of Bakar, because it has given sufficient argument The unit of local self-government and citizens to oppose such an investment. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following It goes into direct application and it's an attack on the space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45176	Thank you very much. Time. The Honorable representative Nadica Jelash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45177	Dear Representative Klaric, you are convinced that this law will not contribute to the acceleration of investment investments, i.e. the improvement of the overall investment climate. So I think you're wrong. I think so. So the deadlines are in this law I would say the most important element. Moreover, it is said that all procedures for preparing and implementing a strategic project and even those appeal procedures are considered urgent and that is what convinces me that this law will indeed lead to investment being implemented after the accelerated procedure. So, what I want to say about these deadlines is that, in my view, there is one measure in which any deviation from those prescribed deadlines will be qualified as a serious violation of official duty and that sanctions for such behaviour are provided for at least 5,000 kuna per day. In my opinion, everyone's gonna think about doing this kind of damage to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45178	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected vice president of Mr. Milorad Batinic's Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45179	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Jelash, in your presentation you were mentioned when you spoke about investors the way they function. In fact, capital has its own logic. I will use this as a synonym for strategic investment, investors and what you have drawn attention to, and I definitely agree with that, is that this law does not determine what someone will build but a way, the way investment will be carried out and certainly will not derivate the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia with it. What you also pointed out in that part is to shorten the procedure. I can only give some positive and some negative, more negative examples. For example, in 2008 the opinion of the competent Ministry of Agriculture did not come to a specific inquiry today in addition to the space-plan documentation. I've had to repeat my request. I've been waiting for a solution these days. Similarly, as regards real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are also a great potential for investment, we had a State Property Management Agency. According to the current strategy, things should be started. Since 2003, I've received all five questions, I've received only one answer after five years. That's exactly what this is, so in this part of the law that's talking about shortening procedures, sanctioning procedures. I think that, here, I agree with some colleagues also from local self-government that this should also be applied to not only strategic investments but rather such an approach to shortening procedures or restructuring, or I don't know how, but that all relevant ministries by model mean this Strategic Investment Act to behave or also be a service to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45180	Thank you very much. And the answer of the esteemed representative, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45181	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you're right. The logic of capital is such that it can indeed be considered a timid animal, it flees from an uncertain environment, i.e. in an insecure environment and does not even come. Regarding what investors are going to invest in, therefore this is something that, unfortunately, we can have very little impact on. So it is the investor who decides where, in which sphere his capital will best fertilise. If we just take 25 billion euros invested in Croatia in the last 20 years, then we will see that most of it is unfortunately, unfortunately, or fortunately invested in the banking sector. A little less invested in the trade sector, and at least in the industrial sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45182	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So at times when we have record unemployment, when we have a decline in industrial production when we already have a five-quarters decline in gross domestic product, when the finance minister, after all the praises about the moves in tax policy, publicly says that the budget is being charged that by the end of the year it will need to be rebalanced, the government proposes the Strategic Investments Act. Frankly speaking in the light of why this law is proposed, man would expect at least one argument of these to be mentioned. No, the government says the law is passed due to the creation of a precondition for increased investment in the Croatian economy. And that's all that explains why this law is passed. And then he picks up 16 laws and decisions that tang this law. I would say that it realizes that the system doesn't work because if you have laws that you don't change but you call on them to apply them then you publicly admit that your system doesn't work that you're powerless to pass the law to do something beyond that system. But what is crucial in this law is on page 4, says the availability of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia includes forests, forest land, agricultural land, public roads, public water well-being, or well-being of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the key to passing this law. However, it is only regulated by one article and that is Article 17. However, if this law were to be passed with the real intention of succeeding, then local self-government units should be seen as a strategic partner, not someone who at some point as someone who is evil and who stops something should be excluded from the whole story because this project cannot succeed if there is no co-ordination between the resolution ministries and the local self-government unit. And even in some situations where units of local self-government say we don't want the project, there may be some other units of local self-government that the project will want. And if we had come from these predispositions in the making of this law and from these points of view, perhaps this law would have offered some concrete solutions, not just something at the principle level. Honestly, I don't see from this bill what we really expect from these strategic projects because when you say hiring a larger number of people, it doesn't matter if you hire 5 people somewhere in the area of special state care in a municipality of 2,3 thousand people or you hire 5 people in the city of Zagreb. 5 people in the city of Zagreb do not mean anything either in Rijeka or Split or any major city. So this notion of strategic investment... what we expect from this strategic investment is very important where it happens and what we want to achieve with it. So that should be a criterion because the criterion is that a larger number of persons means nothing. It's a lot of imaginary stuff, and it doesn't mean anything at all. So just look at Pliva's investment, how many 100 million euros to employ 20 people, but it's such an industry and it's another way to contribute to the overall growth of GDP and possibly the export balance of the Republic of Croatia. but a 100m-euro investment of 20 new jobs. In another investment situation, maybe 10m euros will bring some 100 or 200 jobs. So speaking in this way one way doesn't mean anything at all. Otherwise, Article 5(2) will meet the criteria of these 6 criteria that you have counted out of 99% of the investment will satisfy these principles and general criteria. Why? Because they're so stretching that you can't tell someone that it doesn't meet any of these criteria. However, Article 7 and Article 8 are particularly interesting, but Article 6 also says paragraph 2. Interested investors propose projects to the central authority of the state administration responsible for the economy. So if one project is proposed for environmental protection, then I think it would be far more logical for the Ministry of Environmental Protection to decide on it or if it's water supply projects, the drain would be far and far more measured to be decided by the water industry or the ministry that is responsible for it, but you've made up your mind. However, this content of applications as regards Article 7i 8 is at least ridiculous. How do you intend to apply the subparagraph in paragraphs 2, 4, 5? How do you apply the complete article 8 to strangers? So do you think all these people are waiting at the low start border waiting for the President of the Parliament to declare that this law was passed and then hit you with a gun, they will all invest from the Croatian border in Croatia? It's our greatest delusion simply no such one. There are some who may show interest but with this way and some of the statements that occur in the Republic of Croatia are 15 times more harmful than what this law might have to pass. Article 9 of the Commission, as soon as you have 7 to 11 people who are mostly ministers and vice-presidents of the Government, it is very difficult to gather such a commission within that composition. So it's massively non-operational. But in particular, an interesting item of 4 is the changing two members of the commission representatives of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government in which the project is implemented, so by two members. Now look, you've got 550 units of local self-government and let's take a hundred of them have some strategic projects and now the government needs to name those 200 people and now there's a committee meeting and 50 projects are being discussed in 50 different units of local self-government, 100 people are waiting for them outside the office and then one project is coming out, another one is going out, and otherwise their ability to decide between 7 or 11 people are practically nothing. It's a clear farce that you can only say that units of local self-government are involved in all this together. And Article 17o I have already spoken to him several times today and I want to say again because I really do not understand that real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia is therefore mentioned in the implementation of a strategic project at the disposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the local permit issued in accordance with the documents of spatial planning. Well, one elemental question arises if this is all as it says in this paragraph 1. which requires a variety of committees and what should be determined to be a strategic investment. So when everything's okay, then they don't need any middlemen. And that's going to happen without a problem and quickly. However, when problems arise, it is necessary to detect the location of the problem. And what counterpart Klaric was already saying is that you have land books, cadastres, something you can't skip with 1700 provisions in Article 17. However, what I cannot agree with, and I think it is wrong and that it can create many problems tomorrow, which is Article 17(2), you simply have to define which is the size of agricultural, forest land that can be given without a public tender to a potential investor. It just has to be either one-third or one-quarter of what he already has. It can't happen that he has one-quarter and three-quarters gets it this way. It just can't happen. And what you're saying is that the offer at market value will be based on the assessment of an authorised court expert. I will tell you one example, the Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway, this move from Hrsić to the Randzirna station reserved corridor for the highway, it is agricultural land. And it's not building land at all. And it's basically worth as much as it's worth. It only gets construction status at the moment when the highway passes and neither left nor right, nothing. But the whole project has been standing for four years, people are looking for... The price for that country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's agricultural land. Do you think that if a private plot appears to you in a case like this that you won't have the same situation? Or someone won't tell you that you sold state agricultural land or forest land below the price. But you've decided what you've decided. That's something that's actually why you're passing this law. And I repeat Article 28. And Article 27 is totally excluding units of local self-government. So, where someone is interested and has singled out such a law without a problem will break the resistance of the units of local self-government to make that law, in fact, to get to that plot and to make it all the way he wants it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45184	Thank you very much. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. The first is Deputy President, Vice-President of the Parliament of Honored counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, my colleague Shuker, at the outset, you said, "Strategic Investments Act." This is the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. It's likely that if we had a correction of an incorrect assumption, the difference is extremely large. Namely, your entire debate was on the trail of strategic investment, not a law that in some way defines, leads, suggests strategic projects will be conducted. That's it, I'm saying that we have a business opportunity to correct an incorrect quote and that's it. In fact, Article 17 has caused a lot of storms and can read from your presentations, perhaps to allude to real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia in the way the woods are mentioned, not only you but also some other colleagues have talked about it. In fact, there is a procedure, a procedure that this law does not derrogate, does not bypass. Execution in a way, i.e. the separation of forest-economic bases. So the legal procedure that's being conducted today. However, it will be shortened. There are several examples and the simulation, for example, is precisely about detachment from the forest economic base. Procedure regular. The County Assembly has a deadline of 60 days. Determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia under the current procedure for the next month. Making an exemption solution to the Ministry's minimum period of 30 days. The separation procedure, etc., next month. That's two, three, four, that's six months. This is 6 months of practice confirmed, which is shortened by this procedure to 2 months, the maximum deadline. So that's the intensity of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45186	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45187	Well, dear fellow Batinic, I said that the proposer is calling for 16 laws and decisions. That means he's calling on what you're saying. So if he thinks that under these laws and decisions you can't conduct a certain procedure in quality, then you need to change... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I just said what you're talking about. And secondly, I really don't see the difference between strategic investment and strategic investment projects. Well, self-investment is a project. But apparently by playing the word, it's far more important than selling land in unlimited quantities without a public competition. Because this is whether it's an investment or an investment project and it will certainly damage Croatia if we don't say it's a project but an investment. But again, I'm surprised that as head of the local self-government unit, you can agree to article 28 or Article 27, because you as head of the local self-government unit certainly know best what was good in your local self-government unit, which would be good for that local self-government unit. And as well as a leading man and a leading political man, you know what would be harmful and what should prevent him from coming to the area of your unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45188	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You and your colleague Shuker have noticed in Article 5 that the criteria that determine and determine strategic projects are so wide-ranging that there are actually no exact indicators that could be on the list of proposed projects that could be thrown off that list. Namely... employs a large number of people, significantly contributes or only contributes to development, etc., in fact, leaves the Commission with the possibility to set out quite broadly that list of strategic projects which will then clearly have that privilege to go through the state administration of what a storm is, even if the officials of the state are even punished if the random delays in meeting the obligations of this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, also as much as you noticed by this bill, the Ministry of Economy could become a mega ministry, a supermination that will take over powers and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which will assume the powers of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, etc. So I'm really surprised by the great powers given to this law by the Ministry of Economy what it does here, say the first Deputy Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of an economy whose ministry has no role here. Everything he does will be determined by the Ministry of Economy. The full procedure, the full implementation operation of this programme, is in the power of the Ministry of Economy, and... at the head of this committee is the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. It's a little bit odd to me that the minister who has his portfolio, who has the Ministry of Regional Development, will work in this project at all, and all the jobs that are important for the implementation of this law are practically done by the Ministry of Economy. Thus, in that part, this law may indeed be revolutionary, as the Minister or Vice-President of the Government has said for the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45190	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, and it would be more logical that, instead of these provisions in Article 9, in particular in paragraph 5, where the tasks of the commission and the tasks of the operational groups are defined, this commission simply delegates certain processes that must be carried out by the resolution ministry. To what do they create operational groups from people who will be located in the hills instead of a commission in which in principle there will be more or less of these economic ministers, to put it this way, simply delegates something in the resolute ministry that they must do. It also delegates to the local self-government unit what needs to be done. He simply has no opportunity to play a broken phone, those who need to do a certain job get a direct job and after five or ten days you can ask him if you haven't done why you haven't done it. So if it were to go in such a way, and it obviously does not want to be done in such a way, but with some vague criteria, unfortunately, we are losing administratively, we agree on two more administrative layers, and it is simply not good. And the very provision of Article 5 simply creates not administrative barriers but creates them. Because if you don't offer the administrator clear criteria, you've created a new administrative barrier. Now you take, say, 550 units of local self-government that anyone will interpret the employment of a larger number of people when you're not... and that's one of the key criteria for this to be a strategic investment project. So the clear definition prevents both corruption and administrative barriers all together because if you have as a clear investor what you need to do, what you need to do, what you need to do, what you need to deliver, then you can't be harassed by any reference that you didn't do this in one way or another, if you're using the clear provisions of the law. And as you already mention these 16 laws, so stick to those laws, don't make up new laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45192	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you have well concluded that Article 5 does not clearly specify all the conditions that will be for these strategic projects. In fact, strategic projects are described as the hill-down they should be doing, which should contribute. He's not as busy as he needs to be, he's given it from 5 to 10, 10 to 20, 20 to 200 or something like that. It is clearly said that two representatives of local self-government will participate in this, it is not said by anyone, given by the head of the municipality elected by the direct elections, whether it is a representative of the municipal council or a president of the municipal council, who these persons are and how they will cooperate or determine who will be representatives of the local self-government. It's a question like the agricultural land law. Likewise, it was defined in the second reading of who these persons are, meaning the representative who was legally elected, the mayor or the mayor, and the other one is the representative of the municipal or city council. Similarly, this law full of scarcity will certainly not necessarily start an investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia or contribute to reducing unemployment for at least the next two years because it will not actually contribute to anything in the next two years, given that we have not heard from the promoter any strategic project that already exists interested someone outside to start building or doing it, whether it has taken certain steps as it writes and that certain steps have already been made towards achieving this project. So this is a pamphlet that only wants to cloud its eyes for one time and wants to give again to the Croatian people as some hope of its confusion, inability and all that has happened in the past year and a half in the area of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Unemployment speaks clearly, as well as everything you have pointed out, from reducing industrial production, from falling GDP to failing as they imagined, budgets and new loans are wanted to cover groups created by the tax press, destroying small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and shutting down 25,000 crafts in the Republic of Croatia certainly clearly show a picture of how they want to welcome investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45194	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the criteria set out in Article 5(1) and paragraph 2 of very few real investment projects, Djakic does not satisfy these conditions, and it would be more logical that this commission, as set out in Article 9, determines what problems there are in certain investment, strategic investment projects and therefore calls on those who should remove these obstacles, because they will also sit on the basis of the undefined criteria set out in Article 5 to define what these strategic projects are a clear waste of time. Well, it makes sense if the project appears, if the problem arises, that the commission reacts. Then it's a real job. To determine strategically that some kind of project is a strategic investment project if the implementation of the project has no problem, if it takes place in the process everything happens more or less without any problem. The other thing, to be honest with you here is one big responsibility to the members of the committee not to have someone object to them tomorrow and not to blame them for being favored. Because if you, if someone comes to you based on this and you drag him here now, you drag him there to do this to him, that. Someone who is interested in a similar investment, and for this or that reason, or for some small matter or some point, or because someone is not likable, his project is not declared by a strategic project, he can automatically initiate the process that someone has been affected and that he is therefore responsible for it. Why? Because there are no clear criteria. So clear criteria can lead people who work the most honestly and do their job honestly to an extremely difficult situation. I repeat, vague criteria are a great thing to create administrative barriers and a great thing for corrupt activities. Clear criteria simply narrow it down to a practically impossible level. And this law, unfortunately, is crawling with uncertainty. And it is not clear to me that both the Minister of Economy and the Government are being brought into this situation that, due to vague provisions, they are tomorrow in a very awkward situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45196	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45197	Dear colleague Shuker, I must react to two things you said in your debate. First of all, you said that this law admits that the system isn't working, so we've actually lost the battle with the state administration and that we're creating a parallel system for state institutions. And that's what I'm asking you. Why did you start the H.I.T.R.? Therefore, the argument was that the establishment of the company was long and problematic and that HItro.HR was actually a kind of shortcut that should have just accelerated the registration procedure, i.e. the establishment of the company. And another thing I have to react to. You said the farce was the involvement of the head of local self-government in the Committee for the Identification of Strategic Projects. I'm sorry to say, but you actually worked on the farce when you said that 50 leaders of different local self-government units will wait in line to participate in the work of the commission, and a minute after that you said that the investor will not be much, that they are not waiting at a low start at the border and that there they will enter with their capital in Croatia. So, I would like to say that personally it would be wonderful to have so many strategic projects that members of the commission who will be delegated from the local self-government units are really changing every half hour in the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45198	Thank you very much. We'll hear the answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, I really don't know what to say if I'm a proposer in my opening statement to add up to 16 laws, and it doesn't change those laws, but rather, this law is based on those laws. It means we have operational and implementing laws, but they don't work. That means the system isn't working. I don't know what other conclusion can be drawn from all this. HlTRO. HR was just one project that unfortunately stopped, someone stopped it, I don't know why. But just by removing all these huge administrative barriers, but not in this way. Not that we have a commission, not that we have this, not that we have that, but simply there was one body that did this job. And you won't have that body had any success. That H.I.T.R. did a big job. And as for members of the local self-government units in a commission of 7 or 11 members of the commission, only two units of local self-government are. I just told you, I tried to paraphrasise that at the same time the commission decided on 40 projects. So 40 projects of different units of local self-government times two. It's 80 people who, like on the current tape when one project is completed, one goes out, the other comes in. So it's about that. Although it would be more logical if it were some kind of project to refer to the local self-government unit and to practically solve it in a very, very simple way. And where the local self-government unit stops the project, if they don't want it, then there's another unit of local self-government where they want to do it. Therefore, I don't think a project like this can be successful even if the local self-government unit is not an equal partner. Because it's happening on her field, she's interested or uninterested in it. Well, after all, all these entrepreneurship zones that have succeeded because of the activities of the local self-government units, because of their commitment to the job, because they wanted to do something. And those units of local self-government that didn't give enough energy, the forces failed to activate their economic zones. Why? Because there is great competition and no one will run to them in the economic zones unless they create a prerequisite for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45200	Thank you very much. Now we're going to hear the debate of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45201	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I agree with all those who say that this law is a defeat of the current Government of the Republic of Croatia in the legal system procedure in the Republic of Croatia that would create such a desirable entrepreneurship climate in the Republic of Croatia. Because this law, which should represent a shortcut through a number of laws which, according to the Government, make it impossible for the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia to be passed after, in the seventeenth month of work of this government. So, after the government tried probably to encourage this investment climate with a number of other laws, it found that the investment in Croatia is gone, that there are fewer and that is why it is held accountable on the one hand is bad legislation in the Republic of Croatia which is not friendly towards investments, and on the other hand, let's call them bureaucrats who, in a certain way, obstruct these laws. This law, in my opinion, is not absolutely revolutionary as the first Deputy Prime Minister said, because it would then be expected to represent it practically and will be the beginning of an anti-Birrocrat revolution that was mentioned 25, 26 years ago. In my view, it is not revolutionary because it derivates certain laws that have been created, upgraded for years and on the basis of which a particular system has been established and it practically becomes a special law which at an important moment precisely what individual laws adopt and resolve in the matter of concessioning, arrangement of space, determination of maritime goods, etc. He now prescribes it in a special way which I say to me is not good. It would be good, what Mrs. Nadica Jelash mentioned earlier, on that trail was organized HItro.HR to list all those barriers that are recognised in certain laws and then those laws in that section that represent barriers, obstacles to investment changes. And that's not a lot of those laws because if there were many then there wouldn't be such a short list of laws that were listed in the scoreboard. There seem to be fewer than 13, 14 has a 16th item, of which are 3, 4 decisions. Therefore, when it comes to this legislation which is a terrible obstacle to investment in Croatia, then we could in these 18 months, and that would be revolutionary to find these barriers, abolish and change but not diminishing the importance of the Parliament and not reducing the importance of the government and not reducing the importance of the county, cities and municipalities that these laws have made. So, this law remains the government's central place of governance for everything and everything in this country while the parliament's role is derivated without speaking to the local self-government unit. Here's just one example of how we derogated the Parliament. The fact that the government is going to grant concessions for 99 years on maritime good. It is under the current law that the government already has huge powers because it gives concessions without a Parliament question for up to 50 years, and now this law also allows it to decide on concessions for up to 99 years. So I said yes, and I mentioned it several times today, derivating the importance of local self-government and not only in the part where local self-government determines what in its area will be able to do, whether it's a gas or coal power plant, whether it's OMBLA or not, whether it's golf or not, whether it's an economic zone or not. So, now with this bill of law, we are going to significantly undermine the role of units of local self-government. But not only that, but even in the part where the state has left that role to the counties and also part of the large cities, and even smaller towns and municipalities in Croatia, so that they can issue acts on the construction or use of local or construction permits, this law will also be removed and we will prescribe it to the central state body or the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. So everything that's been left behind and decentralised and very important to local self-government, and even to this area law, we end it. Here is that one poll between us here who were either mayors or mayors or mayors that made it important to us the document that we bring in our mandate, important by some hierarchical, what documents are important? It's a budget and another is a spatial plan. There's no more important document than spatial because you're using a spatial plan to tell what your view of the development of the local self-government unit is. And now that we have said that with this spatial plan, we will arrange our community as we know it, and now the government of this law, or Parliament, not the government (save God) but the Parliament now that we adopt the government on Friday, we will have one piece of space without those who are the only ones invited to decide on it, we will put them aside and determine the commission, the government commission, which will then prescribe what is good in that unit of local self-government and what is not. I and Priory do not say that they will misdetermin but it is right, legal and that is the reach of a democratic state as Croatia wants it to be, is that what is in the jurisdiction of cities and municipalities leaves it to them, rather than to take. Enough of us, by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, have prescribed state facilities, projects that are already being solved by the state, enough. These are all state projects that are realised in a particular area and now no one gives up the state or ministry the right to issue construction permits, but we have prescribed which jobs in which they deal in the first instance of units of regional or local self-government if they are big cities or those cities and municipalities where they are transferred to. And now we're raising them. That's not good, and I don't think that's how we should act. I believe that this is what we bring even ourselves into, without speaking to entrepreneurs and investors in error because there is no investor, there is no reference, there is no employee in the state administration who can realise a large green field investment in a way to issue a local and construction license. Whoever was involved in this project knows that. Without a detailed plan of arrangements, this act cannot be issued, there is simply no way because there are so many questionnaires in front of that reference that this location permit or that building permit or confirmation of the main project but which must be realised that it simply cannot give it. You know that we have passed the Act of Conduct and construction conditions to encourage investment or popularly called the "all in 45 days" law. It's a great law. The same law is fast, and it has already issued hundreds of solutions to building conditions for numerous projects, but has not derivated a unit of local self-government. However, in order for someone to enter that law and make their investment faster, it is necessary to assume that there is an urban planning. And then the state meets him in a way that doesn't run two administrative procedures, one for a location permit, and the other for a building permit, but in one administrative procedure, it solves everything, but it solves on the basis of a spatial document which is the only document that can tell the investor what its object looks like, what its maximum construction is, where its road, where its water is, where its current is. It's something that can't be realized without that plan. And finally, I have one more thing to say, I keep saying that in this House, the real obstacle to investment in Croatia and large projects of strategic projects and those small projects where family houses or some smaller workshops are being built, etc. I keep saying it. Without taking care of the cadastre and the grantovnica, this law will, unfortunately, remain to a large extent a dead letter on paper. If we don't settle property dealings if the situation in the land book and the situation in the cataster doesn't fit the situation on the ground, this law won't be possible because we've prescribed everything here. We tried to put aside anything that might little point to the possibility that somewhere we respect the authority of the local self-government unit we pressure civil servants to do so in one day everything they need to do but a person who has no solution to the property issue won't be able to act according to this law at all. Therefore, I warn the government not to remove the funds of the Ministry of Space, Planning and Construction at the position of the state... administration to increase the funds with which we will make a new geodetic measurement and land cadastre in Croatia. If we had these funds now from this Law on Legalisation where significant funds will be provided and instead of investing those funds in the production of catastras and land books in exactly those places where we expect the biggest investments, that's the right way to make it happen. In this way, I hold that we will not achieve what we are planning with this law, and we will make a mess in both local self-government and the spatial arrangement system in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45202	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. The first call came from Denesh Shaw. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45203	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have listened to your presentations and you have repeatedly mentioned barriers in existing regulations and in the logo of local self-government. I agree with certain of your findings, so I advocate, especially when it comes to rural environments, that the discussion should put more emphasis on these investments at the moment of opening new jobs. Because in rural areas, strategic investment, large in agriculture as a local self-government, we simply accept it with fear, because if in one farm of 1,000 male cows currently works 30 workers or 40 or 28, by strategic investment if we modernize it, we'll bring the employees down to 7 or 8 or with two modern Jhon Dear or tractors we'll replace a dozen phergusones. Therefore, this accent should be used to stimulate such investments on the canal network to favour the production of labour-intense cultures and service activities in rural areas. And these investments only reduce, this is the best example, let's say, not some former combinations, etc. and those with large surfaces drastically reduces labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45204	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are the head of the municipality, so I know how you yourself did when we were making changes to the Law on Spatial Planning, and in particular dealing with illegally built buildings, you gave advice on how and how to include the unit of local self-government in matters relating to spatial planning. You see, I believe this law could be improved in a way to write down short deadlines and for the process of passing space-planned documents. If we have shortened the deadlines for assessing the need for environmental impact studies, if we have shortened all possible deadlines to 10 or 15 days then for certain locations where we expect or for which there are already interested investors for whom there are, but not in general, but for which there are interested investors not this Ministry of Economy but that resolution ministry of spatial arrangement prescribes the shortened deadlines for local self-government to now, in one accelerated procedure, if the state can then and local self-government, bring certain documents of space arrangements necessary for realisation. If we do that, at least we'll do less damage to that spatial planning than this. Here I would be interested in Mr. Deputy Minister telling us what the position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection is under this law, whether they are entirely in agreement with the fact that there are no documents of spatial arrangement, for example in the protected coastal area of the sea where that obligation is. A number of units of local self-government have made a senseless need to make plans for a lower order, therefore the defence plans of the arrangement, for no reason. But some of the spaces are mandatory on them are required to produce these spatial-planned documents, and now we're practically saying by this law that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45206	Thank you. Next replica Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Bacic, with you, I absolutely agree with you when you were talking about derogating the rights of the local self-government unit, but I don't know if the government is aware that this law violates the European Charter of Rights that stems from this Charter... for all units of local and regional self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I do not know at all if they are aware that, contrary to this Law, the European Charter regulates matters concerning decision-making in the area for which the local self-government unit is responsible. It is not clear to me at all whether you have studied enough regulation concerning this area and which is in force in the European Union. And I especially say about this question. The same constitutional law is indeed the question of whether it is a discriminatory law here. This is about the fact that some investors are mainly priced as we could hear here, cost prices and investment coming out of the way to meet specific, special circumstances in such a way that they will not have to meet certain legal requirements that otherwise concern all other investments that are less than one kuna, for one kuna less. Not for two million euros less than for one kuna less than that amount. So the question is, really, is it a discriminatory law, in my opinion, absolutely is. And the third thing that you're talking about right now is why it didn't actually go to a deadline reduction in all these laws that regulate this area. Only on that, let's cut deadlines in the existing laws, and that's how we speed up the procedures. And not in this way actually avoid the debate. Because what is crucial, I will point out once again, here you avoid hearing citizens' opinion through public debates during the adoption of spatial planning documents, detailed arrangements and urban planning. You have judgments in the European Court of Justice which annulled similar activities in the case, I know exactly Slovakia which had the same way of avoiding the debate at this local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45208	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague... I was also interested in whether the ministry, whether the government, in the process of passing this law, had sought, sought the consent of associations and municipalities, associations and cities, and associations of counties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that they would have something to say about this Law because they are practically directly taking the powers that come from the Constitution and the law. I'm still somewhere in a replica this morning, too. The law is, as long as it's been talked about for a long time, and about five months, I think the first time in the light of day is when the real variant came out somewhere after New Year's, was in public debate, it was talked about. But it is not clear to me that the Office of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is passing through the opinions of all ministries and that there may be another article in it with one article that has nothing to do with either a sentence or something else has been written, and this article has been abolished and it has forgotten to write. I forgot to cancel then. Namely, Mr. Deputy, what does paragraph 8 of Article 11 do to you if you can, explain to me. Namely, private investment is said to be the first person to be cared for by the economy minister and head of the investment and competitiveness agency. And for public investment again, those two same people. I think, I don't know what you mean by that, I really don't know that it could have passed the Government of the Republic of Croatia and come to the Parliament and that no one noticed that this item was absolutely not saying anything but saying twice the same thing in the same item, the same article. It's just... Someone was saying that the law was concise, that it was well prescribed, that, here it was done thoroughly, here's only on one little example showing that nothing in that one article is saying anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have no idea what, why he's in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45210	Thank you. Igor Radjenovic applied for the debate next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here in the 9th hour of the debate it's hard to find any greater inspiration for, I can see that it's also falling, and the amount of replicas, even those within the same club. I'm saying it's really hard to find an inspiration to say something new without repeating yourself. But obviously I'm saying from the debate and discussion of all my colleagues it's about an important law that we've been waiting for for a long time. And so I'm surprised by the little bit of skepticism, the skepticism of the opposition fellows that the law actually won't do anything and the question of whether it's necessary. Let's start from the facts, more than once here is said on both sides of the political spectrum, so, bad, objectively poor macroeconomic indicators, GDP has fallen for the fifth year together with Greece more than 10%. We have a 30, 40% drop in investment, so at least one-third. We have a decline in economic activity in the environment and we also have the opening of borders but without it, the politics of our neighbours, so our competition in the global economic crisis where the investor has less and less, they're more and more wanted to say so, little... A lot of crocodiles a little money and a lot of desire for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have a lot of neighbors who are actually racing and in real... meaning but also a lot wider that are racing in search of these investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we can just ask a rhetorical question whether we need this law, whether we want to change something or continue with all these trends. I'm saying so and... We're saying that investments and only investments and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and employment and GDP growth out of the crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And our dilemma is whether we do anything or not. This law is an attempt to do something and to confess to ourselves, they also told their opposition colleagues that clearly through all the administration that we have is a pretty good and efficient state administration that a lot of what stands as an obstacle to the investors themselves and that they do not go through the rhythm that we would like to do. Maybe IKEA, I mentioned in one replica this morning to someone maybe IKEA is the best example, we all know about brand, we all know how much it means to the construction industry our consequence through the development of that but we haven't been able to realize two... there to switch or one of the interlocking roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously the existing administration can't do that. And now I'm saying it or we're going to admit it to ourselves and try to do something with this bill or not. I think we've chosen a good path and we've tried something. And that we will all agree together that there are therefore objectives in common to improve the entrepreneurial investment climate, the investment environment. That we will agree that we need this speed and efficiency, but I say, I have to deny my colleagues from the other side, although it is said a hundred times, one more time, that this bill does not derivate any existing law, none of the existing rule is derivated, it's done at speed, it's done at the efficiency that we obviously need. I say, especially considering all the environment around us, so the competition we have and the circumstances that are otherwise changing in the markets. The main objections, the general main objections and in that previous public debate, and around the larger number of associations on the left and right were therefore equality, whether or not we favor someone with this bill. I think the best answer was given by Minister Vrdoljak today, and I heard that he had said it before, when he said he'd be the happiest that we don't need this law and we don't have to pass it. Obviously we need, obviously we have some things to break and change about, and where is the better way than to do it in this most transparent way, so through a commission made up by members of the government and representatives of the local community, but also at the meetings of the government and under all the lights of the stage. I say it was some other objection that some things would sell out, etc. So this law does not change and no new solutions have been introduced that have so far not been possible to some other levels, so on the units of local self-government that could not have come, they were only far slower and far less controlled by the public than that. Of course there's been a lot of manipulation, a lot of problems, especially with spatial plans, etc. and that bad experiences in this regard in Croatia have led us to this negative approach. You remember that this law is practically welcomed by a knife in its beginnings when no one saw it and its text, and then again it encourages this bad investment climate and we are actually spinning around in circles and we are coming to that first question about how to improve our investment climate, investment environment and the entrepreneurial climate. So it's good that this law goes into two readings, let's have another debate I say to the public and all of us here together and that the Ministry and the Government in general consider all the comments and suggestions from this and that we actually try to come up with the best solution. Because I'm saying, as I've asked a rhetorical question in my debate whether we need this law or not, unfortunately this law is needed or fortunately, on which side we look. Allow the shortest about some articles that I personally hold most important. Article 5, therefore, criteria for selecting strategic projects, a lot of criticism was about not being sufficiently prescribed criteria, and that is actually a question that is being passed through the whole law, how much room of manoeuvre was left to decision-makers about this law. I think it's a good thing he's spreading something because, of course, not every detail can be prescribed so that he can be an obstacle to a certain investment. We have now made changes to the Public Procurement Act, and I think, of course, that the law cannot predict everything, but who is more invited to make a decision from the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, from the Government as a whole, and I say under the full attention and light of the stage, under the full control of the public. I say, on the other hand, there have been objections that things here need to be made more detailed, on the other hand there have been suggestions that are actually not detailed enough. There have also been objections to other points of the agenda. I think I'm saying by choosing a committee with top officials that the solution is best. There have been objections about Article 7 so around foreign investors that they will wear BON 1, BON 2, we can agree on that, the legislator will probably consider how to resolve the issue. I also told the Committee on the Economy of parenthood that this paragraph 3 also wakes me, it refers to public-private partnerships projects where, according to this proposal, there is no need to provide evidence of the financial capacity and detailed profile of the society, including related companies and the reference list. I think it's just for the public, if anywhere is necessary then it's just for a public private partnership, so it's usually the project firms behind which someone else is standing that should still bring that one of their profiles and the possibility of funding. Of course they're actually contitio son of quanton, actually the basic conditions for a public private partnership. Furthermore, Article 9 which has raised certain recommendations on whether units of local self-government are derivated or not, is why the Vice-President of the Government of the Economy is headed by the Commission and who is the second and second member of the Minister or Deputy Minister of Economy. I don't know, maybe... a solution to prescribe all the members of the committee in front of the government or at least five or six of them, so that 1-2 can possibly be variable around the resistors, so that we can remove all possible objections to transparency from that side. And I'm saying, these variable two members in front of the local self-government unit, too, I just can't imagine the situation so the commission can make some decision by revote and that the local self-government unit is against it. And God gave up someone, a fellow Shucker, that would wait for these members outside and 50 or 100 of these commissions. Well, listen, it would be good, 150 million kunas, so if it waits for 100, that's one 15 billion kuna in just one session. To do so, God gave us such meetings of the commission. Time is slowly running out, so here are articles 14 and 17 that have actually caused the biggest debates, and these are actually the brave steps of the haste of action. Whether it's a revolutionary step or not, about these 15 days, plus 15 days of punishment if things don't work out. Is there discrimination and what, I think that positive discrimination at this point is important and I say we make that step around these strategic investments. I'm saying, God gave me as many as possible so that in the end of these plus 15 days of the ministry's request, maybe that scenario would be my favorite... if in 30 days things were solved. Around Article 17, colleagues also said, you should consider that this item 2 might be better prescribed on when real estate can be available without public competition or without public gathering of offers, to avoid confusion as well. Article 18 also seems to me to be the same rational suggestion that the central authority responsible for the economy not after the Government's adoption but before the Government's adoption to give its opinion the same way as it does for the State's Attorney's office, not for this. Here's the bottom line. I believe this is a step forward. I welcome the view of the ministry as well as the minister that we express as much in the debate as possible, that through the second round around the amendments, and I hope that this will be one of the laws that we can pass by consensus because investment in this country is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45212	Thank you, too. Frano Matušić reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45213	Thank you. A colleague of Radjenovic, you said this bill does not delegate the rights of local self-government units. I don't know if we have the same law in front of us, but just in case, I'll read you article 28. "The issuing of the location permits referred to in Article 27(1) of this Law shall not be subject to the provisions of the rules of the administrative area of spatial arrangement relating to the obligation to draw up and adopt implementing documents of the spatial arrangement of the urban plan and the detailed planning of the arrangement. And that's a law that fully derivates the rights of the local self-government unit. Why? Because these units of local self-government have precisely defined their zones from tourist zones to construction zones through their general urban plans and defined that urban planning or detailed planning must be developed in these zones. There is not a single unit of local self-government that has not done it in this way, and you are in this law derivating their rights, derogating the rights to decide how that investment will actually be made in that area and how it will be treated in that area. You in detailed plans have literally every tree drawn, a tree, let alone other contents that are brought right through these detailed plans that serve the public etc. You fully derogate the right units of local self-government. And then you say this law doesn't work. That's just not true. And the other thing, it would be better to make it possible to invest smaller amounts. We will be happy and we will have real progress if Croatia is, at some point, a hundred or thousands of investments of a million or a million and a half euros. So, out of ten million kunas not even covered by this law at all, only then will we feel real economic progress and growth in the economy. Therefore, our goal should really be to stimulate investment, regardless of whether they are smaller amounts or higher amounts, but in any case create one investment climate, and this is a benefit for individuals. This is what some are more equal in front of others.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45214	Time. We have a colleague Radjenović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45215	Here... So if they let me quote them, it's to prevent guessing in some way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the bargaining happened, you will agree with me in some units of local self-government, and I said in my debate this may be the reason for the good part of the negative investment climate, i.e. negative entrepreneurial climates in the Croatian public because such things happen. I said in my debate that it was simply impossible for me to imagine that the Croatian government would make a decision that would not be in line with the interest of the local self-government unit and that members of the commission in front of the local self-government unit would not make a joint decision in the government that they would not vote on it. So it doesn't work, clearly it says in the law. No strategic project, so it can't be transferred unless it's consistent with the local self-government unit's spatial plans. Thus, in that sense, it cannot be skipped. And I'm saying, through these two members, I don't know if you can imagine that the mayor or local assembly is delegating members of the commission and that they're voting against government decisions and that there's no scandal about it. This law simply allows things to happen faster and simpler, and the best example of that may also be shown I said in the discussion of this IKEA shopping centre, a world-renowned IKEA which is not in 7, 8 solve therefore a banal bureaucratic problem. We have several such situations from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, from Čakovec to I don't know which is the southernmost point of the Court of Units or here in this central part. So everything happens under the lights of the stage, everything happens to local self-government participants, everything happens at committee sessions, everything happens at government meetings where there's probably the biggest cameras. And what you often complain about on Twitter and on Facebook and everything else. Therefore, decisions will be made in this regard, I am convinced that no decision will be taken by revote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45216	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate individually. Comrade Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I read the proposal for this law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, I remembered John Perkins and his undercover economic killers. I also thought of a Nobel Prize winner, I hope that's how he pronounces himself. If not, I hope he forgives me and his theories about four steps to the curse. Well, among those four steps, the first step to the curse is privatisation. And exactly as he states, according to the World Bank and the IMF's instructions, privatisation has been carried out with us. A second step from this theory of liberalisation. And now as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I'm sitting on my right and my left, although there were exceptions that were just on the trail of what I'm trying to say to make sure that this wasn't on the trail. I have to admit, I'm extremely skeptical, and I believe I'm not at all alone in it. To me, this bill acts as a perfect school example of carrying out the tasks we have received from the world or in this case will even be before the European financial centres of power, and if I were to mention some countries of the type of Bolivia, Indonesia, Argentina, Brazil or if you want what your colleague mentioned earlier, then Greece usually creates an opinion that it is about countries that are exotic, which are quite unsettled and something like that. Mostly everything in that context. But these very countries are a characteristic example of these four steps to the curse. And I believe that in those countries too, political elites led high-level debates, smooth debates that were not all about the well-being of their peoples in their high homes, but we can see the result. Now we have an opinion, we've built it ourselves, that we're part of this European civilization, part of something that's let's say a few levels above, but it's no guarantee that we're not going to go exactly by that same model. And now, in order to avoid confusion, I have nothing against investment but for those investments to be made in a fair, fair and public way. I am stressing this public way now because just before the Nobel laureate spoke of it, or he warned that these plans of the financial centres of power were created in secret and were always covered by a veil of secrets. And the other characteristic of these plans is that they're never successful. Now about that in Croatia, how many business zones in Croatia that have never been put into office? How many building lands or military facilities have never been put into function today for 20 or 20 years and some year abandoned and derailed? Is there, in all of these or at least, in most of these facilities not already finished infrastructure that can serve the future investor? But not now, we're opening up the possibility that this same investor has to make, I don't know what his interest is, he's going to build a new infrastructure or we're going to build for him I don't know in the center of some forest or on the marine good. The same way she went, say, Bolivia with a privatization of water. In our maritime well-being, the forest land in them was water, and it was spent by us known BECHTEL, so the costs of water, for example, increased by 400% there and eventually ended with all kinds of revolutions. We have an example now of Brazil. And I don't understand if these are strategic investments, so why don't we just exempt those agricultural lands that are regulated among other things and other laws, which is why we don't exempt both forests and forest economies, forest land, which is why maritime goods? And so far there has been evidence that expropriation can be made very simple when it was construction of highways, didn't there then also be an expression of the expropriation of that land, which was mostly agricultural land, but did it not occur then that it was possible to do so? This thing around these military facilities, industrial facilities so today there's what I know the whole Banovina has wills from Sisak, Clay, Castle everywhere there are objects that are abandoned. Why isn't that used? Okay, maybe it's private property, not maybe it's safe. But why is that allowed to stand? If there's an interest then let's rule out someone who won't function what's there. But there's already infrastructure there. So obviously that's not exactly it. On the other hand, I'm interested in foreign investors. Someone mentioned today, I think a colleague named Lesar mentioned Russia, China and so on, so I'd like to add that to Iran. Iran is under sanctions, and it's an argument for us, and we're almost nothing with Iran. But interestingly, I don't have long to read in the paper exactly the country that imposed sanctions on Iran in the year 10 times increase its trade with Iran. Now, who do these sanctions apply to? They seem to be worth something to us and to us like us who aren't either ready or able to deal with something like that. I was appalled today when I heard the minister say that he mentioned even more of you that in that part you were equally interested in further liberalisation. So now that we remember that several MPs mentioned that this law is already contrary to certain provisions of the Constitution. Is there any larger form of liberalisation than that? It's my opinion that I don't know the liberalisation itself and that this very agricultural land, the woods, the forest land, the marine well-being. In my opinion, this should not be part of it, and then it would be the Investment Act, or strategic investment. And now you would remind me of what my colleague Holly mentioned, strategic investment, so what are strategic investments? According to Article 2 of this Law, that is all. Whoever comes to mind can be declared a strategic investment. Strategic investment needs to be determined by the state, and then eventually opened to the possibility of accessing foreign investors. Then it would be strategic investment. These are all other investments, but they can't be characterized as strategic. On the need to concreteise the criteria, I believe that few MPs today did not mention it, so there is no point in supplementing it. Most of them all quoted the same text. Let me just point out that Mrs. Kosor, who is unfortunately not here, but I think the fellow Milosevic also mentioned the indeterminateness of Article 9(3) on the appointment of the vice president, and I think Article 11 is also the 8th paragraph. That's actually what my colleague Bacic mentioned. I don't know if it's a picture of the indetermination of relations within the coalition, so we're still waiting until the second waiting to see whose option here we're going to have to push, whose player we're going to end up with. And now we here by this law must trust the government. The government has received trust from the people and now this narrow circle of the government and the commission is making a decision to declare it a strategic project or not. I'll remind you of an old folk's "The Chance of a Real Thief," and unfortunately a dozen MPs here said this is a good foundation for corrupt activities. Well, I hope this isn't treated that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45218	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported. Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45219	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I have to admit that when you said that you were horrified by Mr. Vrdoljak's Minister of Economy's discussion in terms of liberalisation, I must say that I was horrified by your debate because you're speaking as if you were in the mention of exotic countries and you're discussing committee in terms of fear of entrepreneurial initiative and capitalism. I think democracy is a procedure, we at the Croatian Parliament in this first reading are conducting a procedure with discussions, proposals that we will have in the final draft of the law. You speak the right and fair and public way, so there can be no more correct and fairer public way than the one now being conducted with the public debate that follows. And what is crucial is spatial plans based on which entrepreneurship initiatives both foreign and domestic are at the same time at public debates, especially in the first county, and then local self-government. and there is no other non-transparentity in any decision and definition of any convenience especially in this situation. There has been a lot of debate and you have mentioned the area, so what is the same for our zones in Croatia at different stages of development or equipment of infrastructure, different land prices, conditions, non-compliance with the pre-contracts with potential investors. In this way, we will provide investors with uniqueness throughout the Republic of Croatia in accessing their investments, which is what is key and what has been said long ago and is repeated throughout the opposition to investor security.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45220	Thank you. We have a colleague Novak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45221	Thank you very much. I mentioned exotic states, you know a smart man says he's learning from other people's mistakes, the other one has to slam his head against the wall first to be aware that it hurts. And as for transparency and honesty and all that I've emphasized, look here is taken and the Priory is actually decided by the Government and the Commission and it has to be, you have to trust us we have an exclusive both in mind and in honesty. But also now we have, let's say, the privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank and Croatia's insurance and Minister Linic says, I don't give 7% of the shares as if it were his. I don't give it to the Defense Fund, I don't trust you. And this way we all have to believe it's fair. Well, we only have enough experience in these 23 years when someone in position is talking about their honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45222	Thank you. Next to discuss Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So maybe after all day debate on this topic of strategic investment projects one summary of everything we've heard, maybe most of all because of me to see if I understand anything at all. It seems to me everything I haven't. On the one hand, we hear that we will all agree on the fact that we need the Investment Law and that we need investments or strategic investment projects. We heard the fact that in Croatia there is a bad economic situation, a large number of unemployed and there is no investment. That's right. Because of these facts, they decided to make a very good and quality law that would make these investments big at one point and start that economic prosperity of Croatia and hire citizens who are now 300 and so many thousands of unemployed and said we finally decided to take the matter into their own hands and decided that we had to do something because the situation is unsustainable. After all day I'm asking myself one question now, what is it? If this law, as the legislator claims, is made only because of the acceleration of the procedure that has been slow so far, which has not led to investment in Croatia, which is the biggest argument of the ruling today, then we do not need this law in this context, but would be sufficient to discuss the urgency of the conduct of investments and criminal provisions for those who do not carry out those investments within the given time limit. And that would be enough for us to speed up and improve these investments if we all the time claim that the law is being passed because of the slowness. The second question that is being dragged around today is who is to blame for not having an investment in Croatia. The legislator says the units of local self-government are wrong because they are the biggest brakes due to the lack of investment. Local self-government units say it's not their fault, it's the state's fault, administrative services, officials, etc. And then some say between each other that it's exclusively the laws that aren't good. And now if we go looking for the culprit and we'll probably never find him because our practice became exactly that, when we pass one law then the ruling say they were, nothing happens because they were the ones before us. Those who used to say nothing happens now because you're incapable of anything happening and there's always one status quo with us. However, I think the biggest problem with us is not just communication and not government cooperation with anyone in the Republic of Croatia. When we have parliamentary elections, local elections, then communication goes from down to up. Then we all go down to the base, we all listen to what the citizens have to say, we all hang out with citizens and hang out with everyone in local self-government units. When we make laws, then we are enough for ourselves, or the government is sufficient for itself, because governments don't need citizens, or mayors, or mayors, or even parliamentary representatives to decide whether something is good or not. The law proposed by the government on Friday simply must be voted whether after the first or after the second reading, the whole story stops. When a law is passed in these ways with such explanations, who is to blame and why it would be very desirable in the proposal for such and similar laws to be any analysis. If we say that the units of local self-government are wrong, then the proposer might try to make an effort if he was already seriously working on the preparation of this Law in order to give the Assembly's representatives insight into several pages along these pages, which are like a bill on which units of local self-government, or which the mayors and mayors did not do their job in a good way. Then you'd... You could say, here's 400 and so many commissioners and mayors the percentage of those who didn't work is like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we say it's the slow administration's fault, then I wonder who's ever in Croatia since the administration was responsible for their slowness. I don't think anyone's been subject to any sanctions in any ministry because they didn't bring anything or did something within a certain period and his superior told him it should be brought within that time limit. The responsibility is first and foremost to the minister. If the minister is unable to agree his organisational structure in the ministry, then it is very, very unserious of every minister to say my administration is slow. Because by adopting this law and interpreting the law in this way, the ministry and the government have admitted that they are unable to create an organization that could and should function. Now we've said daily we'll pay 5 thousand kuna if it doesn't take place within the deadline... This law is definitely discriminatory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia we have about 90 thousand craftsmen who have a very large number of employees,... of which more than 500 thousand Croatian citizens live. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That craft hardly has 20 million kunas on islands or 75 million or 150 million kuna to make some kind of investment. But we don't care about that craftsman, we'll be quick to support only those strategic investment projects that are extremely difficult. So there is no legal uncertainty in Croatia with another law. And that's what gets more and more worried every day. No one in Croatia knows what they can, how much they can and how much money they must have in order to do something by law. I'll just remind you how much this law will bring in in the near time of trouble. In the first month of this year, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia adopted a legal position that forests and forest land which were subject to the Law on Forest Change in the 1990s were socially owned by the Republic of Croatia and not to the units of local self-government. So, since the 1990s, local self-government units have been losing something they've done because after 20 and so many years of interpreting something different. The same thing is possible to happen to us with this law. But let's not forget about private investments. We will not take his money so easily, and we will experience problems that we have also heard many times today. What I am particularly concerned about is Article 7(2) of the investor concerned, along with the application, also applies to the draft which contains an idea description, status and location of the project. According to this, an interested investor chooses the location where he will, in which he will do something by what he writes. So, all that we've been doing, I'm afraid we haven't done it right, and I'm afraid we're hiding some other intentions with this law. The criteria for selecting strategic projects are very vague and very, very superficial. The argument that this Law is approached and that this Law is adopted in a procedure in order to increase the number of employees does not stand. We have one strategic investment open in the Republic of Croatia weighing 80 million kuna, which is the Plomin thermal power plant, which does not have any new jobs in its projection. Therefore, if we want to be transparent, honest with the citizens, first of all to the citizens, then let's let these criteria until the second reading be transparent that we know who has the right to obtain state property in private property because the game of the case currently has enough money to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45224	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45225	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, I think if you're asking why an idea description, status and location of the project must be listed, I think I really have to admit that I don't know what to comment on. And as you will define the project, how you will define if you do not have a study of cost-effectiveness and feasibility, or we often call it the feasibility of the project, that the commission, and tomorrow the government makes a quality decision not only by the number of our citizens and citizens who will be employed, as you have now mentioned Plomin, but about a strategic investment that has a wider economic benefit and impact on economic activities. Because if you say that Te Plomin does not have an impact on employment, and we all know that the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia is something that is an absolute priority, an absolute goal that has wider economic benefits in terms of Croatia's stability, then I don't know what a strategic project is in that sense. So the debate about why this law, you've asked a lot of good questions, and there's only one answer. The law does not give more rights than is currently prescribed by the current laws of the Republic of Croatia which regulate the implementation of investments in Croatia, but ensures efficiency, manuality and no more unknown to investors when they will receive all documents and when they will be able to go into the realisation of the project, and in all Croatia, conditions will be unified.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45226	Thank you. We have a colleague Tyrelli's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45227	My colleague Gjurkovic, I thank you for the replica. Well, here's what I'm gonna try to do from the beginning. I only mentioned the locational so the elaborate contains the location of the project. What does the location of the project mean? So which serious investor is going to invest their money without having a lab. I mean, we've already said several times today that the content of the application, the search for certain points, etc. Funny if we want a foreign investor. First, we could learn on what conditions and how they do business, but well, about that later. As far as our energy efficiency is concerned, I don't have enough time to talk about it right now, but I'll just instruct you to look at the State Audit report on HEP and TE Plomin and see how energy independent we are when it comes to... and how we operate in Plomin d.o.o. who doesn't have a single employee and the money's spinning. And in the end, you said the unknown, I didn't quite understand you, so I can't even replicate it, I didn't realize what you were going to say. But what I think, I think, is that this law is unknown to these investors who want to come to Croatia because those who want to come want to have laws decided, laws that have been in force for a long time, laws that are good and good and good and can easily be implemented precisely because there would be as few unknowns as possible and that they would have legal certainty in the state, that they know that this state, or that this government will not pass any other law in an emergency procedure where it will simply put an ad act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45228	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Srdjan Gjurkovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45229	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would not like to repeat myself on the issue of supporting this law because I think it is quite clear that most of it is almost a consensus of parliamentary deputies for this law, with certain remarks as to how it usually happens at first reading. What I think is a key message and the public, and also investors, especially those who are in Croatia and have been waiting for years of realization, which is that, among other things, this Croatian government has set up its institution directly towards them to be a service and help in preparing documents, interpreting laws, but also in the segment of communication with local self-governments and institutions that are not in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. From 1993 to 2011 we had 24.7 billion euros in Croatia, and the majority was focused on ownership acquisition in the service sector, and 50% in financial intervention and trade. At this point in the Republic of Croatia, thanks to the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, we have clearly more than 60 registered investments not in the financial sector but in retail trade, mostly in tourism and production worth 3 billion euros. It's 24 billion since '93. by 2011 in Croatia invested. And that's what we're going to make possible by this law, and most of these projects can be implemented quickly. This is the main message to all future investors that in Croatia every investor is welcome, that every investor has the same right to invest and that Croatia is a competitive country for all those who want to invest. Often, in discussions today, a spatial plan that brings local self-government in a way that states that Article 28 indicates that local self-government does not have any authority at all because it draws and trees where it must be planted, and that this way, in fact, local self-government has no right whatsoever. All those who have done investment projects were in the economy very well aware that the issue of a local permit is essentially the setting of conditions that the investor must have in order to comply with the spatial plan and with all applicable legal regulations, and this Strategic Investment Act does not derivate any law on this matter, and in the local authorisation and local self-government and municipal companies and local self-government also give their own conditions for both roads and water accession, the electricity of course gives HEP, sewers, etc. Therefore, the involvement of local self-government in the commission on whether it is essentially a strategic investment, because no one has said here that any investment will be declared a strategic investment. An assessment will be carried out and local self-government will participate in this, and I do not believe that one investment will be made and decided to be strategically revoted without the consent of local self-government, as most said that local self-government is of course not against investment. Just because the mayors or mayors want to help and make the investment go away doesn't mean that certain services, certain local institutions can't, they won't, and unfortunately we're not stopping certain procedures. Therefore, what is related to strategic investment and local self-government is certain, and I have not heard in the debate, and I believe that one part of the local self-government leader will be satisfied because this way they will be disbursed by certain obligations and documents that must be processed and prepared because in this way the state or government will assume a large part of the commitments within very short notice. And another note about the 2011 constant mention that investment started, grew gross, and that we basically as a new government blocked it. The Croatian National Bank report makes it clear that investments during the first three months were 1 billion euros in Croatia, the first three quarters. But a very small part of that investment went into production capacity, and most of the investment was used to pay off foreign debts to creditors of private companies. That's a billion. The other 900m euros mentioned as investments in 2011 which of course affected gross production are exclusively equity investments in 2011 which are entirely linked to the transformation of demand for foreign owners into the company's core capital. Therefore, all rightly enough, the gross product is a race, investments are growing. And what was the effect? Weak or nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45230	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45231	When your colleague said that I think you did well and noticed, but I would like to complement something else, if it was big here, there was a big debate about the independence of the local self-government unit in the land management, and you specifically noted that in this way the units of local self-government are coming in and out of the way of solving many problems and at a certain time. That's exactly how I see it. And I'd say it's a way to provide versatile assistance to local self-government units. And that's why I'm all about supporting this law, because land management is the greatest crime and the greatest abuse and corruption that happens at the level of the local self-government unit. And that's how it's always been. And that's something to stand up to. And this, especially that provision that many have come to is the most precious, and I mean the law as a whole. What the government should then do to remove, because they are loud in public. They're not saying that that's why they're complaining, they're afraid of what it's going to look like. So it gets quite a rujo, even some halo of divinity behind which is a concern for the untouchableness of local self-government units. So on the fingers of one hand can count the units of local self-government that led to production activities. There are and they serve honor and come from many coalitions of different options. Many, however, are only scrambling with territory, with land owned by units of local self-government or which they have received from the state, which they have just received in order to develop economic activities. But they didn't do it. We will see now and with this next law that is on, which will soon be on the agenda of the proposal for a law on the promotion of entrepreneurial infrastructure that speaks a lot of it. So this law needs to be observed Here, just let me finish. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] It's through the light of disabling corruption, but it obliges the government to make all decisions and even higher laws and those strict provisions that explain why someone got both openly and transparently I think they're going to shut every mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45232	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45233	Thank you very much. My colleagues, it is clear that corruption especially when it comes to large investments, especially when it is related to land it is best eliminated that I say so in a way that everything is public and transparent, that it is clearly known by name and last name who corresponds to certain decision-making processes and thus, and this law ensures that the citizens of the Republic know where investments are being made, or where strategic investments will be made, in which way they are done, which is the value of the investment, which is the cost of the investment, which is with that part of the land to be taken out, at which the price is being taken out. So, at that point, there are no more strangers. Because when there are strangers, there's doubt. When there's no transparency, then the games start under the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45234	Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the HDZ club Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So today we've heard many times actually that everything of course depends on people, there are moral, immoral, capable, incompetent, etc., but if we finally want to become a organised civilised and organised country then we can't depend on individuals, then the state has to set up a system and this organized system. And fellow Gjurkovic, as far as investment is concerned, I will gladly pay you lunch if you find more than 3 new investments compared to the list I personally left to your first vice president, or former party president Mr. Cacic in late 2011. The list is then submitted to the handover of the government, if you find more than 3 today, I'll pay for lunch. So here's a few sentences just at the end of this day. In fact, all of us, regardless of the party's belongings and the ruling or opposition party, agreed that there is much to be done in Croatia to simply support investors, to reduce and simplify procedures, of course, to make them transparent. And in that sense it should be clearly concluded that this law is a shortcut, however someone interprets it one way or another, but it is a fact that is a shortcut. And in this sense, this shortcut needs to be established in this first reading has a lot of uncertainty and a lot of things that need to be complemented, criteria that need to be introduced. Unfortunately, we did not go too far on this, but in fact investments and entrepreneurship climates must be systematically built and none of the laws will change overnight, but an action plan to remove barriers to investors and systematically identify these obstacles and create an entrepreneurial climate would in any case do so. And finally, what we're looking for, I've already said more colleagues today, and that's why we're asking for these reasons to limit the duration of this law, to systematically approach the removal of obstacles to all investors and large and small and small and craftsmen of 100,000 kunas for which it's all and those of billions of kunas and more. And finally, after all these debates today, I think it would be very clever and we suggest that I not say we ask that the Assembly start a Parliamentary Committee on Investments and Competitiveness, which, first of all, would, given the indeterminateness and non-transparentity and, moreover, on several occasions, show today and mistrust in certain decisions of this government, actually oversee decision-making when it comes to strategic investment. And besides, he was systematically concerned about what is currently most important, which is to improve competitiveness and this business investment climate. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45236	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45237	We continue with the vote. Proposal for a law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, CZ No. 420. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, with 78 votes in favour and 5 against, have adopted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45238	We continue with a united debate on points - Report on the implementation of the 2009 National Consumer Protection Programme. – 2012; - Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2016; Report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You took the materials into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You've received reports. With us is the Deputy Minister of Economy, would you like a few words? I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45239	Thank you very much, Vice President. As regards the 2009-2012 report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme, we know that the area of consumer protection is dynamic, which needs to be continuously monitored and developed with the aim of building a socially sensitive economy capable of competing on the international market. To date, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has realised a whole series of measures and activities aimed at raising the level of consumers. In February 2010, the Croatian Parliament also adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2009 to 2012 and on the basis of Article 121. The Consumer Protection Act sets out the basis for consumer protection policies for the national consumer protection programme and defines priority consumer protection jobs to be financed from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, with a view to the continued progress of the quality of life of all citizens in line with EU countries' standards. I would therefore single out the most significant activities in the area of consumer protection carried out from 2009 to 2012. A central information system for consumer protection has been established, allowing consumers to request at one place an explanation of regulations and procedures from the Ministry of Economy, from the Consumer Protection Advisory Centre, or to provide instructions to the State Consumer Rights Inspectorate. The system has been like I said since March 2008. More than 11,000 different questions and consumer applications with a visible trend of annual growth have been accepted into the system so far. We would like to stress that many activities could not be achieved without cooperation with the NGO sector. The government has also established an excellent dialogue with consumer protection associations involved in the creation and implementation of consumer protection policy. In the context of consumer protection in the areas of public services, the competent ministry, as well as other institutions, carried out a number of activities in order to create appropriate conditions for competition as a means of ensuring that they were provided in a socially acceptable manner in the field of health services and, in accordance with the tasks of the national consumer protection programme and the obligations of the healthcare provider to provide insurance to consumers with information on their rights and on the cost of health services, in such a way that prices must be highlighted as well as the services provided by patients for free healthcare providers must provide consumers with clear information on the obligation to pay certain services or to participate in the same services. As far as product safety is concerned, it is of paramount importance both for the EU Member States and for the Republic of Croatia. the inspection supervision of economic inspectors shall be carried out continuously during the period from 2009 to 2012. The report on the implementation of the national consumer protection programme shows that consumer protection policy has been implemented very intensively over the past period at all levels and that over the past period, a whole set of stakeholders has been actively involved in the implementation of this policy and has contributed to a higher level of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45240	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP Representative Gordan Sobol. Here you go, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So here, on behalf of the SDP Club, I will begin by saying that we will support, on the one hand, the report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2009-2012 and, on the other hand, the Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2013-2016. When we look at the report that is ahead of us, especially I would say this last part where through a series of tables it is shown that everything in certain areas has been done in the frameworks of adapting the Croatian EU legislation in the area of consumer protection, then I think we can really say that one huge job has been done and that is, in fact, the Republic of Croatia, as in the opening part of the report, and has itself recognised the consumer protection policy as one of the priority areas that should be dealt with in the past few years, but in which it will obviously be dealt with in the time that is ahead. And it really was when we looked at all the legal changes that were made, that all the rules were passed, how many round tables on different topics were done, agencies that were founded with their reports, etc. Then it's one huge job that's been done in continuity. But how demanding and how much I would say this to consumers themselves, in terms of how much we have brought in over the past years, and how much they have done for them, so to say to the final consumers, and to all of us who are in the daily role of consumers, it tells one detail in this report, and this is a survey that was done in the context of raising public awareness of consumer protection and 2011, and also in 2012, consumers are asked the same questions. And their answers suggest that obviously we still have a lot of work to do in approaching the possibility of protecting consumers themselves and their rights. In 2011, the poll question was asked whether you were able to exercise your rights as a consumer, most of them surveyed 65% said that it failed to achieve its consumer rights, and 15% thinks they are successful. In 2012, 63% answered the same question that it failed to achieve its consumer rights, with 19% thinking they were successful. Asked whether they felt sufficiently informed about their consumer rights in 2011 answered 94% that they did not feel sufficiently informed. The same percentage was in 2012, so it seems to us that, it does not seem to us, but it is certain that in the period that should be ahead of us, along with everything else we will have to do in the legislative part of the integration of directives that have come into force in the meantime, and some that are yet to foresee that much more maybe we should focus precisely on informing those end-users, consumers as well as how they can exercise their rights. As regards the Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2016, perhaps this is one of the remarks that we have yet to make, although not even in the previous proposal for a national programme. In fact, for the National Consumer Protection Programme, it was the Government who, on the basis of the programme, had an action plan to say the actions and implementation of the programme on its own. Since I've been here longer in this House, I still think it would be better if this programme were accompanied by this action plan, and then it would be easier for us to talk, because then we'd have some deadlines set, we'd have carriers specifically, we'd have some kind of projected financial resources that we needed and things like that. Because usually with the national programmes we adopt here in the Croatian Parliament are these action plans. But since this isn't, it's not supposed to, it wasn't in the last program, it's not in this one. But somewhere, I think, I may have predicted, but it should somewhere be said that the action plan for the implementation of this National Programme will happen in some period, whether it will be 3 months, 6 months or how long after this programme is adopted. Because I'm saying, if we had deadlines now and the carriers would be, I'm sure, better. And I'm saying, it seems to us that some of the things that are in the program, we're aware of it and repeat it, but there are no certain deadlines until when we're obliged to do what we're supposed to do, or we're going to do it. Although in some areas it is very specific about what period some things will be done. We also know that there is a particular problem with, at present, the work of the Consumer Protection Advisory Centre. In all these years, the state budget has funded the work, so these are associations that work as consultants at local levels, there are several in Croatia, all these years, and for 2013 the same funds were foreseen, so there has been no reduction. However, we support the efforts of the Ministry of Economy and all those who need to worry about having quality, i.e. during this period when I suppose a tender will be opened to raise the quality of the service to a higher level as well. Because everything that we have been doing to protect consumers and I mean everything that is now waiting for us, that is, we have entered the European Union yes and from that level, so counselling centres are also expected to be extremely high actually the ability to say so and the expertise that they can give good information to all, to all those who address them. And we believe that part of the problem will be over. I don't think it's been held yet, or there's been a contest, so I apologize, I haven't been able to see it. But here I believe that this problem will be resolved soon. And what else seems to me to be going through the report on work so far and in this new proposal for a programme, which is to try and try and try in all ways more into this issue, this problem includes local self-government. Because it seems to me that just in this part of the funding and support of associations dealing with consumer protection from the level of local self-government so far, there has not been enough support to say so. And here's to not being too long, I repeat again on behalf of the SDP Club we also support the Report and support the Proposal for a new National Consumer Protection Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45242	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45243	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. Consumer protection is a policy that makes it possible to actually verify any real policy. Because any real policy should actually end up at the benefit of the citizens. Even though there are masters who create beliefs that citizens are better and create illusions manipulate and actually citizens are really not better. But consumer protection is, in some ways, a basis and such policies, because ultimately when the consumer becomes aware of what a policy means to him and what politics carries on him then this policy can be more difficult to manipulate with its perceptions and its experiences of different policies. Therefore, consumer protection policy is actually a powerful instrument in improving the overall policy that needs to be taken in relation to citizens. And there should actually be a little paraphrasing of what the principle of thinking globally, acts locally. So, think at community level and act towards an individual so that the individual gets better, then of course it'll be better for the community. Thus, this policy, which began to develop in 2001 by signing stabilisation, the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, will therefore not long be relative in Croatia while it has been in the European Union for the last 50 years, will help greatly to improve the overall policy in Croatia. Of course, that process won't be so short. And it is an indicator of what the European Union has brought directly to us in this area. Not only in terms of the most basic documents concerning this area, but in terms of improvement, so our overall policies. Because this policy actually confirms the quality of the common policy and makes it difficult to cloud the results and success and contributions of some policy. Of course, this consumer protection policy also has direct economic effects. For example, a very important instrument for the use of various facilities for tourism is arranged here to protect consumers. It's that time division of the use of objects or so on. thus sharing that could not and has not been regulated in Croatia so far in the right way and now in the conditions of the open market and, of course, easier arrival of people in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for tourism. This, of course, will certainly open up space for the economic development of this important segment of our economy. And, of course, other segments that are therefore intended to facilitate consumer communication and understanding will also enable easier management. So, there will be direct economic effects from this policy such as e-business which, of course, has both its advantages and its risks, e-Government that will allow for the reduction of business costs and easier business and citizens and of course economic operators. These are therefore very important things that actually come from this consumer protection policy and give one additional value as a powerful instrument for improving the overall policy. As far as the European Union is concerned, this issue is referred to by some directive, the earliest I have found, and it exists earlier in 1985, which speaks of the conclusion of a contract outside of the trader's business space. Therefore, already in the European Union, a Directive on the conclusion of contracts outside the commercial premises of a trader is adopted because, of course, such contract conclusion may make it difficult for consumers, i.e. a citizen of a consumer, because it allows for such circumstances to reach the contracts that are going to harm him. And in 1990, a Directive on distance sales of financial services was adopted, already back in 1990, which, of course, in terms of modern electronic communication and of course open market becomes a particularly interesting issue for us today in Croatia, but is talking about the superiority of the European Union in treating this problem. One of the merits, I will mention it as one convenient illustration, the introduction of these rules, the adoption of European Union rules is the pricing of the product for the unit of measures. This was not before in Croatia, it is a new phenomenon in Croatia which, of course, makes it impossible or difficult for manufacturers to blur out, so you have those big packages, you have a lot of packaging inside, and the product has very little. Here you are, as you know about cheeses, etc. states the price of this product per kg which, of course, makes it easier to find our consumers. But of course there are also difficulties in implementing these good solutions of the European Union. For example, you have the Law on Unauthorized Advertising, which we have brought here in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a directive of the European Union which, in fact, identifies this issue in a more precise way, and it is called the Ensuring Advertising Directive, which we have, of course, today, largely and very difficult to prevent when some advertising is actually being deceived and attracted by the consumer and there is a law, and there is a directive and this is a long time in the European Union that I say, in my opinion, describes this problem more precisely, it is talking about cheating, and we are talking about unauthorized advertising. There's certainly still a lot to do. The fruit of these efforts we have is that, but also one deformity in our acceptance and application is a reminder of the arrival and unpaid claims written here by traders, but not just traders, but also state bodies. So we allowed our law not to be charged, so we banned the charge of the warning, but then the merchants didn't send it at all. To make things worse, that's what state bodies do. The state authorities today, when they want to warn you, that is, when they should remind you that they do not charge for it, have stopped warning citizens, including our courts, our administrative bodies are actually doing more harm than benefiting from such a solution because sometimes a citizen needs to be warned about paying. Most citizens should be warned that they would pay if they forgot something. This is how the exercise comes from the Croatian court for something you did not pay or you did pay with a delay, it comes to you but without any prior notice, of course with the tip, with sanctions etc. One of the deformations that should certainly be further regulated are regarding these remote contracts, so contracts that are not concluded in a business space such as various telephone contracts or consents are an automatic extension of the contract without your consent. Maybe it even says it in one of those big general terms that you didn't read when you signed those contracts because these are documents from a few dozen pages of densely printed text, so you actually don't know what you signed, and then after the end of the contract, there's an extension of that contract, and you don't really want it. In fact, you agreed that it is again a kind of consumer deception. It happened to me, for example, that I had ordered on such a contract in some good faith paying over my credit card so they continued to provide a service that I no longer wanted through my credit card whose number they had. I've obviously agreed somewhere with the fact that it's certainly a consumer's deception. So these are the deformities we are experiencing in the application of these European directives, but of course we should be able to put an end to it. And it is a task actually of another document, which is the National Programme for the period 2013-2016, which is a worse document than the report because it is very general, because there are no software elements within it, largely repeats what it says in the strategy or in the report, and of course the programme should be quite precise so that you should actually look in one descriptive form of what they actually have for the program. The document should therefore be more precise in perspective. Fellow Sobol spoke about the action plan, but the elements of the action plan, the most important elements of the action plan should certainly be in the programme so that this document is certainly a document that needs to be improved in the coming periods. As for this national programme, several facts should be noted for the next period. Croatian consumer associations which therefore have the support of the state and which are developing hope for the well-being of citizens will have the opportunity to enter two major European consumer associations and thus improve their activity in this cooperation. What is a major shift and what is a big problem for most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is an attempt that is kind of opening up here, or more in the form of an appeal or a suggestion that spending anything on real consumption, such as water consumption, such as waste of garbage, such as energy consumption for heating. Today, a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their needs are paid in some kind of flat-rate no matter how much they spend, and this is certainly not in the interest of consumer protection. This is what stands before us in the next period and this is very important, to the appearance of perhaps small but very important area that man pays water, waste of garbage, energy consumption according to what he has spent and not according to some other actually inappropriate criteria. Of course, an independent body should also be formed, which should be independent in the performance of this job and fully committed to the job, responsibly to the highest bodies such as the Croatian Parliament. And of course what becomes particularly interesting in this period of market openness, i.e. entering the common market is cross-border cooperation, cross-border trade in the single market that will grow, which is not largely represented in the EU but will certainly grow, and is not particularly in our Croatian trade with the world outside. So that's one big question that we're going to have to regulate together with the EU, of course. And what is also a big and important task is extraparate, outside the judicial resolution of disputes that are being raised in all possible consumer protection policies and one of its new dimensions is the resolution of disputes via the Internet. So not only do you avoid a court that, of course, costs and lasts, but you have a much more elegant and simpler way of resolving disputes and these are the questions we will be dealing with in the next few years. And there is, of course, the creation of a European Consumer Centre in the Republic of Croatia which will then form a network of 28 plus two consumer centres. So all EU countries, plus Iceland and Norway, so 30 countries. So the Republic of Croatia will also enter the information centre. The club of representatives of the CNS will, of course, support this report. It will also support the national programme despite the fact that it can and should actually be better in the perspective because it is a good policy and it is a policy that has not yet given all its opportunities I repeat on beneficial influence, on the overall governing political process in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45244	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDZ Representative Ante Babic. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to be collegiate in this united debate and, as soon as possible, say something about the report and the proposal of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2016. In fact, consumer protection policy has been developing systematically for 30 years and includes a series of measures aimed at improving consumer position in the single European market. One of the important segments of consumer protection policy is consumer protection. As a result, consumer protection is also a horizontal policy, which means that it is taken into account in the implementation of all other official policies. This is an area of shared competence between the EU and the Member States. For the sake of diversity of national arrangements, the free flow of goods and services is disputed, and consumers do not want to trade in other countries because they do not know if they have the same rights as in their own country. Each of them provides consumers as much protection as it deems necessary and appropriate. However, in order for all EU consumers to have approximately equal protection of EU rules, minimum legal protection is foreseen for each Member State and they are allowed to provide a higher level of protection by their legal order. As consumer protection is a large number of directives in the field of other policies, consumer protection is peripherally regulated and protected. Consumer protection in Croatia as well as in EU Member States is regulated by a series of laws and sublegal acts. The intensive development of consumer protection policy in our country begins with the EU coming closer. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia, has committed itself to bringing its right to comply with the EU acquis, and today it is almost fully harmonised in the area of consumer protection. By adopting the single European consumer protection rules, Croatian traders are made easier and cheaper on the EU single market. Following compliance with Croatian rules, they can be sure that they meet consumer protection criteria in all EU Member States. This also eliminates the need for expensive and long-term analyses of other countries' legal order and the cost of harmonising business with rules on the protection of consumers from other countries. Instead of operating on a market of 4 and a half million potential consumers, they are open to the possibility of operating on the market with almost 500 million potential consumers. A great deal of attention has been paid to consumer information and education. As we discussed the proposal for a national consumer protection programme from 2009 to 2012 in early 2010, we discussed the need for further consumer education, indicating the importance and important role of the media in the process. We also commended the show "The Consumer Code" of HRT which we stand behind today because for many years it has been successfully working on the consumer's consciousness by introducing them to their rights through the prism of life examples and lighting up a number of cases in which citizens are somehow victims. In this sense, we commended another show, which is a "verified" NEW TV that does not actually deal with the exclusive subject of consumer protection but is partly talking about this topic through occasional contributions. As regards the proposal of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2013 to 2016, it introduces us in one part to the institutional framework of consumer protection policy, consumer position and consumer policy guidelines in the EU Member States, which is important given the fact that Croatia is a full member of the EU until a few days ago and it is necessary for Croatian consumers to know their rights under European legislation. Over the years, it has been constantly working to level the rights of Member States because the diversity of the rules in Member States prevents consumers from buying goods and services in another Member State or, for example, traders from trading in another Member State with the ultimate objective of free flow of goods and services on the EU internal market. We welcome certainly the general objective of this National Programme, which is from the point of view of the average consumer to further raise knowledge of consumer rights and strengthen consumer roles in the common market. The programme states that this will be done through the improvement of the institutional framework, i.e. through the National Council for Consumer Protection, Association and further institutional development in the area of consumer policy. The further development of the legislative framework and the strengthening of market surveillance, i.e. the inspection supervision carried out by the State Inspectorate, with the powers to take appropriate and urgent measures when consumers' rights are seriously at stake. One of the most frequent infringements is in product tracking documents, such as the lack of data on the ingredients of the product. In order to compare the goods and services offered to him on the market, in order to be fully aware of the basic characteristics of goods and services and to be aware of their rights and obligations in the purchase of products or services, the consumer must receive all the necessary information. Thus, during 2012, the State Inspectorate carried out a total of 101 822 inspections in which they processed a total of 46 443 infringements of the rules of which 34 036 controls were carried out over the application of the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. At the same time, some 9,000 controls were carried out in the field of technical products and 33 dangerous products were detected. I believe that this National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2013 to 2016 lacks practicality, lack of action plans, concrete activities that my predecessors have talked about, lacks concrete projects and campaigns through the media for as much information as possible. The only area in which something more concrete can be read about the activities to be carried out in the next period is the area of food security and quality. We also believe that all that is already stated in the next period is necessary to make efforts and improve cooperation between consumer associations as well as their cooperation with competent institutions. The Ministry of Economy has opened a tender for the award of financial support to organisations operating in the field of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia for co-financing of consumer consultation projects. The funds for the co-financing mentioned are provided in the state budget, and the deadline for submission of applications is still pending until 10 July of this year. In this context, I would particularly welcome the competition that would be called for concrete projects or campaigns in the area of consumer information and the improvement of their rights, which I spoke about earlier. One such commendable project is "I want to know how to count." This is a service that can be used from May through the websites of the Union of Consumer Protection Associations, i.e. a tariff calculation calculator through which citizens can control the consumption of electricity in their household and pay a certain amount without doubt at the end of the month in its credibility. They can actually be sure that they will pay only as much as they really spent in their household. It also raises the question of how Croatian consumers are prepared to protect their consumer rights as EU citizens who enjoy a number of rights. For example, EU regulations guarantee consumer protection in respect of purchases, including the purchase of services such as bank loans, the protection of personal data and other rights when buying online, the price of telecommunications services in roaming, the safety of products and food and passenger rights. The European Union shall ensure that citizens as air passengers have the right to accurate flight and reservation information, including accurate information on the total flight price, which must include all fees, fees and additional flight costs. Passengers also have the right to compensation for damaged luggage, compensation for delays and cancelled flights or a ban on boarding and the right to compensation in the event of an accident. Passengers with disabilities and older passengers are entitled to free assistance in aircraft and airports to allow them to travel under the same conditions as everyone else. Similar rights apply also to travel by rail and maritime transport, and since 2013 these specific types of passenger rights have been introduced into road transport, thus rounding the legal framework for users of all EU-wide means of transport. The question is how many Croatian institutions and associations in the area of consumer protection are ready to respond to such questions and complaints that are likely to meet quickly or even better to the question of how ready Croatian companies are to exercise these rights, such as the Croatian Railways, when we know that thousands of citizens use suburban lines daily to go to work and trains are regularly delayed? Will passengers be given the opportunity to exercise their right to compensation for train delays, for example from Sisak to Zagreb? EU rules must be implemented correctly, and individuals must be able to obtain compensation. European consumers already have a limited scope for obtaining compensation. The FINN-NET parallel network fulfils the same role for cross-border financial services complaints. It is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have a high level of consumer protection, continuous education and information, satisfied consumers, which will also have a developed and competitive economy. In the same interest, I believe this document is emerging, which can be improved by including practicality in its contents, as previously spoken of by my colleagues. The HDZ will support this report as well as the proposal of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45246	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. And we're done with today's work. Tomorrow we will continue with the report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012. Have a good day. I hope it's not dark out there yet. We start at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-03-0.u45247	The report on the implementation of the 2009-2012 National Consumer Protection Programme is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. A report on the implementation of the 2009-2012 National Consumer Protection Programme is hereby adopted." Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Score. I find that the proposed conclusion has been adopted unanimously, with 83 votes.
