ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41534	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The basis for the adoption of the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs is Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that the Government is reporting to the Parliament on the legal regulations and decisions in which they take part in the institutions of the European Union, which the Assembly can draw conclusions on. The same Article also provides for the adoption of a special law governing the control of the Council of Governments in the institutions of the European Union. The name of the bill stems from the fact that co-operation is broader than the concept of supervision, and the bill includes other aspects of Parliament's participation in European affairs, as well as cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this regard. The Council will take part in European affairs in a two-way way, indirectly through the supervision of the government's actions on the one hand and directly through the exercise of powers conferred on national parliaments by the Lisbon Treaty on the other. In the framework of the supervision of the work of the Government, the Parliament will consider the position of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union documents, discuss held Council meetings and preparations for future meetings will be able to order the Government to carry out the procedures for assessing the effects of the regulations on European Union documents and participate in the process of appointing the candidates of the Republic of Croatia in the institution of the bodies of the European Union. The exercise of the powers laid down in the Lisbon Treaty implies supervision of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, participation in the process of reviewing the basic Treaty of the European Union and in the decision to apply the override clause. The Council's supervision of the government's activities in the institutions of the European Union will be achieved primarily through the examination of the European Union documents and the respective positions of the Republic of Croatia. Uninterrupted delivery of European documents is essential to achieve an effective control model. The draft law therefore provides for the Government to submit to the Parliament at the beginning of each year a list of proposals for legislative acts of the European Union in which the adoption will take part, and throughout the year information on other documents. The importance is to focus primarily on legislative proposals, but it will also be able to discuss all other European Union documents as well as all European affairs. The law therefore provides that the Government is obliged to submit to the Parliament, upon request, all documents and information in the field of European affairs with which it is available. In addition to documents to be delivered by the Government, the European Union documents will also be received directly from the institutions of the European Union. The information and documents provided by the Government will be the basis for a work programme for considering the position of the Republic of Croatia and for considering the views themselves. On the basis of documents to be delivered directly by the institutions of the European Union, the Parliament will carry out a verification of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and will engage in political dialogue with the institutions of the European Union. In accordance with the practice adopted in parliaments, the Member States provide for a proposal for a co-operation law to exercise the powers of the Parliament in European affairs as a rule the Committee on European Affairs. Its most important powers will be to adopt a work programme, to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia and to draw conclusions on the positions, to consider the government's report on held meetings of the Council of the European Union and to prepare for the next meetings and to carry out procedures to verify compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. Although the Committee on European Affairs will act as a central place for European affairs in the Assembly, it is obliged to encourage all working bodies to participate, as detailed in the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In addition, all MPs will be familiar with all the documents of the European Union and all European affairs, and in the event of the need for the Assembly there is always the possibility that, instead of the Committee of Discussions and Decisions, they will be held at the plenary session of the Assembly. The working bodies of the Assembly will propose to the European Affairs Committee the European Union documents from its work programme section and will propose additions to the work programme. The Committee on European Affairs will forward the views of the Republic of Croatia on the documents of the European Union from the work programme to the home working bodies in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and these working bodies will deliver opinions on the positions at which the Committee on European Affairs will base its conclusions. Thus, the adopted conclusion on the position of the Republic of Croatia will be the basis on which the government operates in the institutions of the European Union. The work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia will be adopted by the Committee on European Affairs. The work programme will be the basis of the organisation and the planning of the European Union's documents and the relevant positions. For all documents included in the Work Programme, the Government will also provide additional information to the Parliament, positions in the document immediately after its adoption in the Government, as well as information on possible subsequent changes to documents and views. In addition to the position of the Republic of Croatia, the documents will also discuss reports on the meetings of the EU Council and discuss EU meetings at the meeting of the Assembly. The proposal for a cooperation law also regulates the participation of the Assembly in the decision-making and application of the override clause, which is the authority of the national parliaments of the EU Member States assigned to the Lisbon Treaty. In the exercise of this power, the Parliament will play an independent role in relation to the Government and will decide at its meeting on the application of the override clause and will be the parent body in relation to such a proposal. The verification of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in draft legislative acts and in adopted EU legislation is also the procedure in which the Parliament acts independently of the government. The proposal for a cooperation law provides for this procedure to be implemented by the Committee on European Affairs, and the proposal by the Rules of Procedure to propose the initiation of the procedure for verifying compliance with the principle of subsidiarity shall be subject to all authorised legislators of the law. The Committee on European Affairs was also assigned the power to participate on behalf of the Assembly in the appointment of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the institution of the EU bodies in such a way that the Government sends him a report on the candidate and that the Committee gives its opinion on the candidate. Finally, it should be noted that even after the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the EU will continue to monitor the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. The harmonisation of legislation will take place primarily through the transposition of the directive, and if the Republic of Croatia fails to transpose the EU Directive, it will refer Croatia to infringement of EU law. The proposal for a co-operation law provides that the Government should inform the Croatian Parliament of all such procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41535	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee also want to take part in the report? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivo Davor Stier on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41536	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 23rd session held on 24 May, the Committee on Foreign Policy held a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Most of the 5 votes in favour, 3 abstentions adopted a draft proposal and referred it to the first reading. However, the Committee on Foreign Policy also adopted the following comments and proposals in relation to Article 4(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposal for a law is proposed to supplement Article 4(1). It is proposed that, with the Committee on European Affairs designated to exercise the powers of the Parliament under the European Affairs Act, a Committee on Foreign Policy be introduced to exercise the powers of the Parliament in matters of common foreign and security policy and common security and defence policy. In accordance with Article 10(2) of the Law on the Reporting of the Council on EU Council Meetings, it is also proposed to supplement Article 10(2) in the following way. The report referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs, which shall be attended by ministers who shall present reports on the meetings of the Council of the EU and on preparations for the upcoming meetings of the EU Council. In accordance with Article 11 of the Law, the addition of Article 11 and the amendment of paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the Law is proposed. It is proposed that Article 11 be further defined as the way in which the Croatian Parliament is reported, and that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia be proposed to submit reports on all meetings held by the European Council. In accordance with Article 15 of the Law, it is proposed to amend paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of Article 15 in order to comply with Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore proposed that, in the process of proposing candidates of the Republic of Croatia for the institutions and bodies of the EU, the Committee on European Affairs adopt an opinion on candidates binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is unanimously proposed that a joint meeting of the President of the Croatian Parliament be held as soon as possible with the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Integration in order to determine the dynamics of work, and to determine the readiness of the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives and the state of capacity of the Service for the Implementation of the Law on Cooperation between the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41537	Thank you, too. Do the other committee presidents want to take part, report? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanic are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41538	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is one of the few laws that finds its origin in this House, and does not come as a proposal from the Government. Man would expect that the law proposed by Parliament will, first and foremost, take into account the role and importance of this Parliament that the law proposes. However, it is in the title of this act that you can see what is constantly seen in the Croatian Parliament not only this conference, but also all or almost all of the meetings before the government's and parliament's relationship is at best the relationship between equal partners who are talking, whether they agree or not, or more often that the Parliament's relationship is such, the Parliament's and Government's relationship is such that the government actually does not account for the Parliament, but the Parliament for the jurisdiction of its behaviour corresponds to the Government. I don't think this law should, should not be called, should not be called the Law on the Co-operation of Parliaments and Governments because Parliament and Government do not cooperate, the Council is overseeing the work of the government according to constitutional ropes. Once upon a time there, the government was called the Executive Council. She was doing something. Both this government today and according to our constitutional alliances is called executive power. It should carry out what Parliament concludes as an indirect will of the people. That is why I think that this law should be called the Law governing the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European affairs and in no way the Law on Cooperation. I'd like to ask the Proposer to consider that until the second reading. After this point I assume we will discuss the new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The themes are connected. What's being detailed here is actually indicated in the Rules of Procedure. And I'm afraid there's that same logic going on there, too. The logic that the government is the one to initiate, to make, to decide, and the Parliament will eventually raise its hand the way the government thinks it's necessary because all sense is by the act of choice, by the fact that someone in the election has received two votes more and more of a mind. And by the act of that election, the government took all the senses and acted that way. Unfortunately, we treat the government the same way. In this law, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is completely excluded from regulating relations with the EU, i.e. considering EU rules and similar to having already entered the Federation. The United States still does not exist. I am convinced that there will be one day, but there are still no jobs within Europe are also for us still a good part of external affairs today, and I think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs should say something about the good part of the functioning and relations with the EU. Following this relationship, the government decides, and the parliament confirms instead of the parliament deciding, and the government implements the first proposal of this act, it was said that in taking the position of the Republic of Croatia, the government will take into account the opinion of the Assembly Committee. Well in this final text it has been amended, taking this into account here there is no, but in the second place where it is decided in Article 15 where it is mentioned about the appointment of officials from the Republic of Croatia to EU bodies and bodies, the Government proposes, the Committee is considering, considering, discussing, having its opinion and giving that opinion to the Government. The government takes account of the opinion. Consideration means to assess this opinion is relatively clever, we'll think about it one more time or say no more than you've gone too far, which is what we're going to do with your opinion. Therefore, taking into account the views at all is not mandatory and I think that such a thing in the legal act proposed by Parliament as the initiator of the legal act should not happen. In fact, if the parliamentary committee had a negative opinion on a government proposal, that proposal should no longer exist as an official proposal at all. The government should be covered in ears and say sorry we really made a mistake, the representatives of the people think differently. Article 11 says that the government, through the prime minister, is likely to report on positions twice a year. European Council meetings are much more common. What's going to happen? A session will take place in Brussels, or Strasbourg where it already is, and the government will take a position and then come and brief the Committee. And the board will talk sharply about something that the paces are pasting, which is more unnecessary actually to talk about. I think the law should set out that before every council session, the Government is reporting to the Committee what is going on, which is on the agenda and what it intends to say and take there. Illustrative of our situation in this House and let's say yesterday's session of the afternoon that was completely confusing and lost in space. It jumped from first to eighth, from eighth to twenty-fourth, from twenty-fourth to nineth, and as it succeeded in arresting a minister in the halls. Article 5 states that at the beginning of the year, the government will present to the Parliament again through the board, which is in the council that year, which are legal acts on the council's agenda. The government could do the same for Parliament too. For a wonderful miracle today, we know what will take place in the European Parliament on 15.10. at 3 p.m. in that room and this one. We have no idea, we know well now what the second point is going to be, but we have no idea what the third point here is going to be without talking about the second week. It's just beyond the knowledge of Parliamentarians. One of the reasons is that in these parliaments where this knowledge of discussions is limited. So it's been known that a discussion about a subject takes three hours and then it can be planned. And what's stopping us from doing that? We change the Rules of Procedure so much, we bring amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, so let's once we make a Rules of Procedure that both parliamentary representatives and the public will be able to actually focus on what they know and that will be on the agenda in two months, in three months, in six months. All right, there's always some urgent stuff that jumps over the line, but it's the exception. In our case, it has become a rule and this is a bad way to function for any of the bodies of the agricultural cooperative or Parliament has nothing to do with it. There's no systematicity, there's no plan, and he doesn't know what's going on tomorrow. And here at this point you'll know very well. Why? Because there's someone out there making plans, so he knows what he's gonna do this year. The direction of the movement of legislative and executive relations at European level is in favour of the legislative authority. When the European Parliament started to operate was a more or less optional advisory body, let alone retired politicians were talking to each other and now the commission or council could respect the story or not. These things change. Today, the European Parliament has very clear competences and competences to stop something that it thinks is bad, and it is proposed by the Commission or the council and the authority to initiate things. And it is happening and it is more and more practice, the European Parliament's initiative. And in each particular plenary session, parliament spends a lot of time also on showing its will and desire that, as a directly elected representative of the people, it plays a stronger decisive role in creating rules that operate in the EU. Everything that happened in this government's term, and I don't even justify the previous government because it wasn't much different, it's all going in the opposite direction. The importance of parliament can also finally be assessed in all the opinions these polling houses carry out and according to the ratings the public gives us. It doesn't give the public these grades bad because there are stupid people sitting here, because there are lazy people sitting here, because people who don't want to do something, no, but because this body as a body has no character to stand up to the bad moves of the executive government and create its good moves from the first law of the chunks and beyond. In no situation where something markedly bad and everyone's obviously bad happened here, no parliamentary position was able to say, if you wait for the people, this really doesn't make sense. That was never even HDZ's position to say. That is why the Parliament's reputation is in the Republic of Croatia, and that is something that we must not change, but something that significantly threatens the stability of the political system in Croatia. All these articles and some euphoric writings about the salaries of Parliamentarians who did not deserve them sitting there, wasting time, getting triple average salaries and actually should be reduced to the minimumer are the result of these people. If responsible, and not by means of a machine that lifts the left or right hand, it would not be such a picture in the Croatian Parliament. I mean, Europe is heading towards the European Parliament is heading towards Parliament because it is the only one directly elected to get greater authority. We're going in the opposite direction and this law. So in Article 8 it is quite unclear in fact who brings this final view of the position of the Republic of Croatia? The government will propose a position the Committee will consider, the government will take into account what the Committee has been considering, will act according to what the Committee has been considering, but it does not say anywhere, the Government is obliged to implement the positions of the Croatian Parliament point. That should be at least what we're proposing so that, in the discussion and the second reading, we get some minister who would say, "Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Okay. Let the minister defend those positions but let us suggest that we have no part in actually making those views. I think it's actually fantasmagorical. I don't understand what attitude is behind it. All in all these are the things that I think, this law must be passed, of course, those are the things that I should think about until the second reading. A clear point on this bill is that the government has no objections. And how would you have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41539	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Let's go in order, first replica and esteemed representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41540	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of Vuljanic's actually touched the key several times in his presentation. And allow me not to speak at this hour as a representative of my party but as a member of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion of this Law imposes and this is what my colleague Vuljanić mentioned, and that is why I would like to emphasise the debate about how the government in the Republic of Croatia was organised. Is it really a parliamentary democracy in which parliament is commanded by the executive authority, of course within its powers, but where the sovereignty of the Croatian people stems from the power of parliament, i.e. I reiterate whether we are parliamentary democracy in the fullest sense of that word or if we are another system. We had a different system in this country, we had a semi-presidential system. And then, by the will of Parliament, it changed. At this point and I refer to what was said, I think it's going in another direction. In the direction in which the executive power will significantly strengthen and parliament will in fact be only in the role of supporting the decisions of the executive authority. It's manifested in a whole series of elements in this law. Since, say, the formulation brings conclusions, it should be instead of being able to bring. Because when you write it, it can bring it, or it doesn't have to. If you say it makes sense, then it's very clear. The government takes account of the opinion. What does it mean to consider? He says you said it well, but we'll do it differently. So, I just want to remind you of one fact that the Constitution has been changed in its own time because of Croatia's entry into the European Union, just to ensure that parliament's supervision of the government is ensured. This is now changing it in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41541	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41542	Thank you. Apparently, a colleague also noticed that there was a conflict of theory and practice here. The theory is what the Constitution says that parliament is overseeing the government, the practice is that the government calls for order and calls parliament if it behaves is strange and irresponsible. It's something that shouldn't happen, which is a sign of completely different systems that no one wants, none of us here want these systems. Let's not go that way for parliament to become our creative decor of executive power. We were here in a situation where the Prime Minister actually treated the President completely inappropriately and when he should have been away. He was supposed to be away from parliament and that's not what happened. It's a blow to the President of Parliament and to every single one of us. I felt it as a blow to myself personally. And that's why when I see parliament proposing a regulation like this, then, I'm sorry, that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41543	New replica and respected representative Nadica Jelash. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41544	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In your debate, you said that in the title of this Law that we are discussing should not stand for "cooperation" as a word that defines inter alia the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. Let me read you article 4. The Constitution, so the Law of Laws. "In the Republic of Croatia, state authority is set up on the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial and is limited by the Constitution-guaranteed law to local and regional, i.e. regional self-government. The principle of government division includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks by the holder of the Constitution and by law.". So, in this law that we are discussing today, there are quite certain forms of cooperation between two equal forms of government, those legislative and those implemented in a fully defined area, therefore in European affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41545	Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41546	Yes, of course, however, the question is who gives legitimacy in this case, which form of government. Whether the government gives legitimacy to the Parliament or the Parliament gives legitimacy to the government. I think it's perfectly clear in the Constitution. And it is a matter of jurisdiction that the government can co-operate with Parliament and in which the government should simply respect parliament. My view as a member of parliament that in key relations with the European Union, the government should respect Parliament and that there is no place for any arbitration or university cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41547	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Third replica and respected representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41548	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is my colleague Vuljanić, you have rightly pointed out that the powers and the Committee on Foreign Policy should be extended, and on behalf of the Committee, I have mentioned this as regards the amendments to at least Article 4. You have rightly stated that it is unacceptable that a provision cannot survive under which the Prime Minister only post-festum reports on what happened on the European Council, he must report before each European Council on what position he will be in Brussels. But maybe one fact you haven't pointed out, or you haven't emphasized it enough, which I think is primarily the fact that we knew since December 2011 that we had to pass a law like this. That it has been a year and a half, and that we are only now 19 days before we enter the European Union to discuss this Law. That we had this law and that we had some provisions like that. Article 15, which regulates the process of running for human beings, candidates from the Republic of Croatia for the bodies of the European Union, may then also avoid some indignation. Isn't it a paradox that today here in the European Parliament is being voted on by a Croatian candidate for the Court of Auditors who unfortunately got a negative opinion in the home Committee of the European Parliament without having passed through the Croatian Parliament at all? If we had that law before, we could use that part of the preparation period to have better results, not to be embarassed even before entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41549	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41550	Yes, the fact is, I didn't stress that the law was passed at the last minute, so we've already learned that it doesn't seem strange to me. It's all done at the last minute, so we did it at the last minute, and it's not good to do it at the last minute of course. This law situation with a member of the Court of Auditors from the Republic of Croatia will unfortunately not prevent it if it remains in this form. The parliament will be able to give its opinion, the government will consider that if they have time. If he won't have time, then he won't be taken into consideration and there will be another person who will be declared incompetent by the parent board. This kind of law gives the government the opportunity to make mistakes. Anyway, one part of the public was accusing the political elite of going back like a goose in the fog, and then we were going east, now we're going west. Now let's not go like geese in the fog, let's not go like geese in the fog, let's go organized and go so that people who represent the people of the Republic of Croatia, and these are those who sit there, not those who sit in the government, they do not represent, none has chosen them; they have been appointed by the Parliament. So they have insight into what kind of fog is going on, what's going on and what we can do and that we have the ability to decide on it. If that's not there, then we're really going like geese in the fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41551	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41552	Dear counterpart Vuljanic, you have asked a key question as to whether Croatia is a parliamentary state. So we need to ask whether Croatia is an office state. I don't know who remembers, but one of my replicas when I claimed that the Parliament was the Ficus of the Government then the Prime Minister in this House was standing there, hardened without blinking an eye, and this one when I talk about this High House it's just that we calm our conscience, I'm talking about a high, respected home, a high home, then he claimed that Croatia is a semi-cancellary state. You have a transcript, look. Nowhere, in any media, no parliamentary representative has responded to that claim that we are a semi-cancellary state. What committees are in the Croatian Parliament, they are only parliamentary decorations, nothing else committees. The board's decision means nothing. Often, committees and parliamental majority make decisions that are logical and contrary to government decisions, however, the parliament is voting as if it were crossing over them. Yesterday we are barely, you said that in the European Parliament a year in advance the agenda is known. Yesterday we patched up the agenda, we were wandering around on the agenda, why, because no one from the government is ready or cares about the Parliament. The fourth set is sent to the Parliament to defend the laws because it is not important to defend the law because the parliamentary majority will raise their hands anyway. Therefore, it is the Croatian Parliament's decoration, it is a cover for the government's bad moves. And it's not the government's fault, it's the MPs who let them be manipulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41553	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41554	Yes fellow, it was actually the central point of my discussion, the government's and parliament's relationship as an introduction to the next point. In the Rules of Procedure proposed by the same committee, it is even clearer and louder to see who is in fact shaking political life and who is being supervised, who is in charge of whom. We are parliamentary democracy by all constitutional provisions, by all declarations, by everything we have said, by the fact that we can talk here. That's true. Now may be the time to fill this box with the right content and make this relationship between the Government and the Parliament the same way that the Constitution should be, not Sanaderski, not Milanovic, but that the government as the executive body should carry out both the spirit and the letter of what this Parliament concludes. If we're not able to do that, I'm afraid we're going in a strange direction and it's going to be used by strange political forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41555	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41556	Dear fellow Vuljanić, I must apologize to you, obviously in my opening statement, I was not clear enough, so I will now try to be. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 144 that the Government is working in the institutions of the European Union on the basis of the Assembly's conclusion. Article 8 of the Law clearly and unequivocally states that the Government in the institutions of the European Union shall act on the basis of conclusions if the Assembly adopts it. Therefore, Article 8 of this proposal makes it very clear, without any doubt, that if the Croatian Parliament draws a conclusion that is different from the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must act on the basis of this conclusion in the institutions of the European Union. There's absolutely no doubt about it in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41557	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41558	I'm glad if that's the case. I don't see it decided in writing. And I'd just like to ask that by the second reading, it says it the way you said it, nothing else. That's what the law says. So is the layman, and I suppose some expert can interpret the matter on one side and the other. Write in the text of the law what you are now this sentence that you just said and the objection is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41559	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. The next club of representatives is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41560	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me start with a quote from the assessment of the situation that was narrowly extracted from the Lisbon Agreement. Following the provisions of the EU Treaty and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of Chapter VIII. The European Union has transferred the Republic of Croatia to the EU institutions the powers it needs to exercise its rights and fulfil its obligations with EU membership. The Croatian Parliament confirmed the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia on 9 March. The same was done by 28 Member States' parliaments, which will make the Republic of Croatia a member of the EU on 1 July. This law regulates the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, i.e. the power of the Croatian Parliament in the legislative procedure of the EU and other European affairs in accordance with the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. And then follow this paragraph fully drawn up in part in Article 10 and Article 12. In the EU legislative process, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will represent the interests of Croatian citizens by acting in the EU Council, the Croatian Parliament is not directly represented in the EU institutions, but is acting indirectly in the process of overseeing the government's activities in the EU institutions. And it's in the Lisbon Treaty the only mention of the surveillance of what's called... Article 10 which says, therefore, that I am not quoting again, but the Member States in the European Council represent their heads of state or government in the Council and represent their governments responsible for parliaments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's your surveillance. Oversight is not part of the Lisbon Agreement because surveillance has developed seventy-five years in all Member States since then and since '74, the fifth is slowly developing. The Lisbon Agreement gives other powers of special action to parliaments that are really important to us. And I'll look back briefly on them and then go back to the surveillance issue. So the obligation to pass this law comes from Article 144 of our Constitution. The goal is to arrange relations between the government and the Parliament. Of course, it has a much broader meaning because it is arranged in these new jobs, European affairs. And this law should first and foremost be seen as an opportunity for the Parliament to strengthen both on the national and European stage. The entry will therefore change the relationship between the work of the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament, the parliament becomes the national parliament of the Member States, and those changes that Lisbon has made have been tried by the Member States to respond to a problem that has arisen in EU member states during the pre-Sambone period, which is the lack of, or deficit, a demographic deficit. And when it comes to strengthening the role of national parliaments in the Lisbon Treaty, then it is primarily about strengthening the role of national parliaments in relation to the role of parliament before the Lisbon Agreement. And that's why it should be said that this law consists of two parts. This law consists of supervision and cooperation and obligations arising from the Lisbon Treaty. You are being monitored by the key thing that needs to be talked about, which is the supervision of the government's views on EU documents. This is key surveillance. This is key surveillance. Article 10 and Article 11 still fall within the reporting area. For example, a recent study in 27 Member States 10 has not been reported to the European Council at all, 17 have been divided into 7 different reporting models. But these are reporting models, which will almost certainly in the future, as things now stand, slowly move into the control processes and these studies show that this is going slowly, given that the European Council knows what it is, but there are EuroSUMITs who care about the extremely problematic crisis in the euro zone. And that's why reporting will probably become a matter of surveillance someday. The question of the selection and hearings of our candidates for European institutions is really cooperation, and I will now tell you why. In two, three weeks, Croatia is a member of the EU, we become 28 members and will become 18 members who listen to candidates or if I am not mistaken, I apologize, the 16th in the rest is gone at all, up to half of the Member States are no longer listening because it is in the domain of the Government of the Republic or of the Member States. Those who listen to candidates are divided into two groups, are divided into those that the government post-festum informs that someone is a candidate and sends a report to Parliament or those in which Croatia is now able to talk to the candidate and may submit a certain report of the remark. Both colleagues and colleagues, if you take a look at this model, Croatia is on top of it. To return to the key powers of the national Parliament. They mean through different models oversee the government's work. Do you know how many model positions there are on EU documents right now? 27. There'll be 28 surveillance models. There is no single model of supervision at the government's position on EU documents. But what everyone does is directly participate in the performance of European affairs, by checking respect for the principle of subsidiarity in draft legislative acts and EU legislative acts, by discussing changes to the basic EU Treaties, by deciding on the application of the override clause and by including in political dialogue with the EU institutions. Although political dialogue is not part of the agreement it stems from a very interesting Barroso initiative that national parliaments are using. It is namely an informal way of working together with the European institutions where its implementation is not regulated because it is an informal initiative, but has become a spy practice that national parliaments simply through the Office of the President of Parliament or the parent committees put direct enquiries on the commission if they have certain dubiosis and in principle almost always get an answer. Statistics show that some parliaments are boredom as many as there is an initiative used 3 times, 4 times some few hundred times. So it's an informal initiative but it's very useful in these kinds of jobs. Furthermore, national parliaments can directly influence the adoption of legislative acts at EU level through the process of verifying compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, as demonstrated by MONTI 2's famous initiative. This is namely the first and only so far proposal for a legislative act which, after having collected a large number of reasoned opinions from national parliaments and their homes, has been withdrawn from the procedure even though it was not the European Commission's obligation to propose the act. This act made it clear that national parliaments would be able to reduce the right to protest and strike in countries and said no. And MONTI 2 went into history. And it shows the political importance of national parliaments in the EU and European institutions when they have shown once national parliaments co-ordinated through the public common system that they will make good use of this mechanism, European institutions will no longer bypass national parliaments. The Croatian Parliament is involved, let me tell you, at a very favourable moment regarding the verification of the principle of subsidiarity. In fact, it's not since the day before yesterday, it's not even from Lisbon, it's 15 years old, but the Lisbon Agreement introduced an early military system. The early, early warning mechanism that allows parliaments to be included in a timely manner and in fact realistically manifesting the influence of the national Parliament when we talk about subsidiarity itself. And it actually started to be used right when Croatia was completing its negotiations, which means that we are joining at a favourable moment, that, together with all other national parliaments, we are actively monitoring whether the principle is being violated. Sussidiary injury. And this is very important for the affirmation of the Croatian Parliament at EU level. Also, Lisbon mentions our international co-operation. Yes, there are two important international moments for the Parliament, these are the co-ordination of the committee on the one hand, and on the other hand, the key coordination of the president of parliaments which are a decision making coordination where, at the level of all the presidents, parliaments are concrete things and agreed. After all, this law and EU-wide models have also come through the bilateral. It comes late from the date of EU accession, but I will only give you one small statistic of the Committee on European Integration. We've talked with 40 delegations about these systems. Of which 24 representatives of the legislative authority, 14 executive authorities. Almost all member states, and that doesn't matter, I personally spoke to the Swedishs last week once again, and we received additional documents from Lithuania and Ireland informed us that it had changed its model of surveillance to a similar one that we now have here with the work programme, with the parent committees, etc. So it became a mid-model used by most EU members, just like this. And now after these discussions and talks, talks with our committee colleagues, I personally believe that in the SDP, we also believe that this law will strike a balance, as Parliament will draw conclusions on the basis of which the government operates in the EU institutions, thus making this optimal impact and being realized. On the other hand, according to the Rules of Procedure on the conclusion as an act adopted by the Parliament, the flexibility of the government's action has been ensured because the conclusion of a broad meaning act setting out the views on certain events and phenomena, and on the basis of an assessment of the situation on a particular area, opinions may be taken, expressed as well as determining the government's obligations. And that's why that conclusion is so important. Because the government on the one hand can, if it's looking for a maneuvering space to negotiate on the council, ask for it with a flexible position and get a flexible mandate. But we can do a much stronger mandate and commit the government to what position it should be. But now, let me, given that I have a few more minutes, there's been talk about dynamics. So we need to make it clear what dynamics are like. On the one hand, there is government coordination, on the other hand there are European institutions, and at the same time the government gets the document and that its position and parliament are already moving towards the Council and Parliament through the ordinary legislative process. And you need to know that the key moment is not whether, in accordance with Article 10, the Minister will come to us and tell us what happened at the General Affairs Council because here we have now received a note from the Council, item 1 adoption of the agenda, item 2. the vote on harmonised points and point 3. different. It is important to us that, as a Parliament, we are involved from the very beginning in the making of acts that are then voted on. Of course I want the minister to come and say it was on the council, as voted. But if we're not in the process, then it doesn't really mean anything to us. And that's what's key when it comes to heated debates in the council. We must be involved from the beginning. And let me just explain the course of the debate. After the commission... /The speaker speaks English./... as they say put it on the table, the translations into national languages, the deadline for the principle of subsidiarity, goes to the coreper, goes to the councils where several hundreds of working groups. We are involved here at the very beginning as parliament if there is a change of government positions, which is often due to the dynamics of the council, the Parliament has the opportunity to subsequently engage and demand a re-debate. There is a regular legislative procedure in the Council in the European Parliament. For example, to talk about the directive, it passes the procedure, it comes to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the government determines which laws are being changed, the laws are changing, they come to the President of the Croatian Parliament, they refer them to the Committee procedure, the committees say they are going to the feast. This procedure may take 3, 4 or 5 years from the moment that the directive is put into practice by the Commission until the moment it is fully transposed into our legislation. And that's why it's very important that we're here from the beginning. This last part of the job is already working. But this law opens up the possibility of fully closing the circle and participating in all businesses. We have passed the Danish model as one of the hardest, Swedish who is the strongest even, German, Slovenian, Lithuanian, Irish, Italian, and we have found one environment that is very good because it is not a Danish model in which the government cannot move even a millimeter without parliament, but do not forget such parliaments have even scientific institutes in their ranks that do much work. But neither is the Italian model in which the post-festum parliament is reported. Just so you know that I end up not taking too much time, this model is one of the strongest modeling models we have in the region. Tighter than Slovenian, tighter than Hungarian, tighter than Romanian, harder than Bulgarian, harder than Italian, Greek, etc. For a new member, we're going with a relative With a firm model and keep in mind that nothing is written in stone. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] If we see within the next few months that we need to fix the system, it will improve. All Member States usually change it on average once a year, repairing and supplementing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41561	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. The first replica and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41562	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mondekar, you've really spoken nicely, explained nicely, you've been very reasoned and with a great deal of what you've been saying, I agree. You were even more convincing than the legislator himself, which could also question who was the author of this law because the promoters were changing as we approached the debate on him in this House. But whatever nice words I have to comment on and say is that there is no one here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So everything you said about cooperation, this is the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So no one from the government has honored to come and participate in this debate today. So how do we believe now that all these words that have been said, that all these models you've explained to us, that all of these good intentions that I have no doubt that you will encounter any fertile soil when there is no government representative here today? You said that in 10 member states, the government even reported that there was no control by parliament, but I am sure that even in those 10 countries, a representative of the government would come to this session of parliament and talk to MPs and listen to what they say, whether they are right or wrong. This relationship today is not the coming of the government's representative at the Parliament's session about underestimating the government that the government is underestimating Parliament, we are also monitoring this debate on a referendum where the will of citizens is also underestimating and you are leading a policy that is not really appropriate for the time in which Croatia is currently in place. We become a member of a full member of the EU and we have this kind of government attitude towards Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41563	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41564	Thank you very much. I will answer only about these figures, so when I spoke about 10 Member States where candidates for European institutions are not being questioned. a little more than a dozen in which the Presidents are not responsible for the European Council. But as far as our model is concerned, we must come for both the Council and the European Council. I agree with the suggestions to get that part done. And what will the government do? What the law says. The moment the government takes a position on a particular document that could be 3, 4, 5 days or a week or two, the Parliament will get it. And thank you for this opportunity because I should have mentioned it. We do not work as in some Member States a club within which only one committee does all the work. This law places the responsibility of European affairs on all MPs and on all committees, and everyone will have a chance to show what they know about European affairs when they will discuss the positions of governments that the government will deliver as the law says immediately to the Parliament after the adoption of the views themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41565	I must once again warn that the government has given written views of this law. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41566	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, my dear colleague Mondekar and I agree, in fact, with a good part of what you said, but I have to say that a few things are somehow something I'd say was particularly interesting. One thing you mentioned correctly is that European institutions will not bypass national parliaments. Of course not, but also national parliaments depend on what they will and how they will be set up. And that's exactly what we're talking about today. We are here today talking about how we in Croatia will resolve this relationship between Parliament and the government. At this point, we have the government's domination over Parliament, which in itself is not good. It has nothing to do with who has a majority or doesn't have a majority. I will say again, I am not speaking now as a representative of my party because I think it is a matter of the dignity of the Parliament, of the dignity and of the ruling in this House. Whether the Parliament has all those powers that should be had and whether it really uses them or serves only as a mechanism, an extended hand of government to carry out what is decided in the Government. I don't think this first variant that's on the part right now is good. And when you mentioned the models and said that this proposal was stronger than Slovenian, Romanian, Bulgarian, etc., I have to refer to what the prime minister said on several occasions that he wanted to go with the Nordic model. Well, now you and I both know very well that in this aspect, the Nordic model is something quite different from what is proposed here. So we can't once claim that we want to go in the Nordic model and the second time that's not right for the prime minister, then we'll go in some ten-model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41567	On the replica of the esteemed Vice President of the House, the Croatian Parliament corresponds to the respected representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41568	Thank you very much. So, I can get agree with, with, thank you, I can agree with what you said at the beginning that we will not be bypassed, that we will receive a huge amount of documents, legislative, non-legislative, the Assembly will be bombed by documents from the Union, we will choose through the work programme in the cooperation of all MPs and all committees with which the key documents will be discussed by the Assembly. [[Intruder: Intruder.]] Most of the member states that have this work programme model are choosing legislation that will eventually return to the national parliament. That's, like, that model. When the Prime Minister spoke about the Nordic model, he talked about changing the interest of the Nordic model for the European Council, the prime minister's hearing for the European Council, not supervision. He doesn't control the attitudes. The Swedish Parliament also owns a huge professional service, a huge scientific institute, it has the possibility of a huge parliamentary reserve, large committees, the Grand Commissioners who are standing commissiontee and are constantly sitting. If we want to go into surveillance one day, this model is a middle model. Excellent for Croatia. We can go into a loose model, we can go to Nordic someday. But here's the president talking, talking about reporting, the Danish model for the European Council is more flexible for the prime minister than for ministers when they go to the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41569	New replica and respected representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41570	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Mondekar, you've quoted the Lisbon Treaty correctly on the issue of surveillance. Today, however, we do not comply with the law under the Lisbon Treaty, but we bring it to the Croatian Constitution. And that is what we must do and there is a Croatian Constitution very, very clear. Because it says, the supervision of the Croatian Parliament at the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union is governed by law. And that's what we have to settle with the law today. And what it says in the Lisbon Treaty, of course, is important and important to us. But first of all, we have to stick to the Constitution here. And that's why I don't think you should run or talk so much defense about how surveillance was used or left out from the very title of this law. Secondly, I highly appreciate your personal involvement both in the preparation of this law and in consultations with other parliaments. However, the open question remains why we had to wait a year and a half to pass this yet key law. So crucial is that the government does not have its own representative, but only by written means is reflected in the law. This shows the government's relationship to important issues, according to the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Why didn't that happen before? We had multiple discussions on committees, so we were assured by the government that it would be, that this Law would come to Parliament, in the parliamentary procedure by the end of 2012 and then be assured that it would be in early 2013. Then it shifted that the proposal would be the Committee on European Integration, and then the deadlines were given to the members to make proposals. And suddenly it's changed, and the proposal is the Constitution Committee. So those deadlines forgot, the proposals, there was no more time to fit in. And then we have this kind of plan, that is, a proposal for first reading as we have. And we could have done much better to avoid some unpleasant situations like with Mr. Mates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41571	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41572	Thank you very much. To refer, therefore, to defend the title of the law, I defend it for only one reason because it is much more than surveillance. So, because it is part of the Lisbon Agreement, which all the Member States that have laws, and some have no law, some do it in their own rules of procedure, have the Lisbon part and then leave themselves a space of control and a space of reporting which is actually co-operation as a separate part. I will defend this name because, yes, this law is also about the exercise of our powers from Lisbon and the supervision of the government's work but is also about cooperation. After all, even the Lisbon Agreement calls for interparliamentary co-operation. And I think about the title still this might be the best title for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41573	New replica and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41574	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Mondekar, it was really interesting to listen to your debate on behalf of the club, and I would like to join those who said that you have tried to explain some institutes here and that your exposure was actually much more quality than the very promoter of this Law. However, I apologize for repeating, but your discussion moved me to repeat two things. You said that I assume on behalf of the board you spoke to more than 40 delegations who gave you both their experience and knowledge in performing European Union-related affairs. I am sorry that you spent that time on delegations and that we waited 20 days before entering the European Union to make this law appear in parliament and in the first reading. If we were to comply with any of the applicable procedures, we would not be able to pass this law in the second reading until July 1st, unless we were to try again with hasty methods and resolve the issue. And another thing that is unusually important, and it shows again because of the Croatian public the government's attitude towards this Parliament, that today again, except for a brief written indication, not one single government official has found it necessary to be here at this session when it comes to Parliament and government relations. If he had no need to explain the views of the government then at least hear the opinion of the MPs about what the relations of these two bodies in the Republic of Croatia will look like in the future. This is inadmissible, I would say to the government that in this arrogant way it shows how much it even cares about the adoption of this law and the determination of relations with Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41575	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. It is up to the Independent Representatives' Club, Damir Cain, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41576	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, I'm going to paraphrase Mr. Mondekara, he said about that this is a medium model of government supervision compared to European experience. And on the other hand, let us also not forget, surely there is a President of the Parliament or Mrs Blažević who can help us more to see if we as parliamentary representatives can follow anything that is delivered to us on the benches. We have about 300 laws per year, we have a budget, we have budget rebalances, we have reports from individual bodies, we have ministries, we don't talk about conclusions, other decisions, etc. We want an extra job, and neither is the one who trusts us the question of whether we're doing it right. Secondly, when we talk about this law itself to return to what it is, which is the subject, it means when we talk about the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the Government that in the legislative process of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will represent the interests of Croatian citizens by acting in the Council of the European Union. The Croatian Parliament is not directly represented in the institutions of the European Union, which is clearly logical. In accordance with the practice of the Member States, and in order to improve the effectiveness of national parliaments in carrying out European operations, the supervision of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union on behalf of the Croatian Parliament will now be carried out by the Committee on European Integration. And what is also important, given the report by the Croatian Parliament on the meetings of the European Council, the proposal for this law provides that the President of the Croatian Parliament may invite the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to present, at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the positions of the Republic of Croatia for the meeting of the European Council and before the meeting of the European Council is held, twice a year, and that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits to the Croatian Parliament a report on the meetings held by the European Union. I personally believe that this is how it is set, and the height is exactly the intensity of the work of the Croatian Parliament, that this is simply a medium solution, to paraphrase Mr Mondekar and that it is simply good. And I personally believe that it is in some way a process or a gradual strengthening of our committees, it is apostrophe of the role of the Parliament in some way, but what I would like is an clarification before all of this Article 11 which says that the Prime Minister submits twice a year a report to the Parliament on the meetings held by the European Council. The President-in-Office of the Parliament, as I have quoted earlier, may invite the President of the Parliament to present the position of the Republic of Croatia for the meeting of the European Council and before the meeting of the European Council is held. Now, does this mean that after the "report" of the Prime Minister, the debate here is open or that there is no debate at the plenary session, according to the Prime Minister or Prime Minister's report. I'm interpreting this provision to myself in this other case that there is no simple debate here. It is true that our Committee on European Integration can discuss as many times as it wants, and I have the impression that it can only listen to the Prime Minister. It's a lot more to be honest with each other than we've got so far. This is beyond the assumption of European standards, but perhaps because of the Croatian parliamentary tradition, it would be good to let go of the debate even though discussing the almost matter makes no sense, and there are other ways that Parliament can polarise the work of the government or the prime minister himself, from various legislative initiatives that we can refer to in the procedure all the way there to interpretations and so on. Article 15 states that the Government shall submit a report to the Committee on the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for the European Commission, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors and the Administrative Council of the European Investment Bank. The Committee may, where appropriate, invite the candidate to the meetings of that committee, etc. And indeed, I think, by following the activities of this Parliament, that this Parliament law is in some way recognised, that its role is strengthened, not weakened, that this law is apostrophysed by the body of the Parliament and that it is not possible to say that the Parliament is marginalized at this point in time by one of these laws. The fact is that if our committee wants to discuss it daily, it can also discuss certain materials under quotes which or which will be obtained from the Government, and that is also good. Why? Because the boards are far more operational, the procedure is much simpler. In one word, they're far more expedient. Now, even if the EU brings us all the benefits we expect from Europe, believing that it is not only a major challenge, but a fallen economy and a great hope, clearly a great chance, even though someone will say a great risk. Perhaps it would be good if we had prescribed somewhere now because Croatia will annually allocate significant funds to be able to participate in the withdrawal of the same from Brussels so that some other bodies do not know from the county through large cities or major cities also deliver some reports, perhaps to the board, perhaps to some other body so that they know in fact how the withdrawal mechanism is going from the EU. It is understandable, as some MPs before me said, that this law should also be observed in connection with our Rules of Procedure, more specifically these articles from 152 to 158 where they are spoken in Chapter VIII. European affairs and what we will discuss later, and it is said that the working bodies of the Assembly are considering a list of EU legislative acts, and that the Committee on European Affairs is having a debate on the position of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account EU documents, having regard to the opinion of the working bodies, etc. etc. It is clear that I have always been, and now, for the apostrophe of the role of the Parliament, the Parliament above which I believe can only be the Constitution, a clear God. But what is the practice elsewhere when it comes to the EU. I think these solutions that we are stressing here are far more liberal than what we have in some of these neighbouring countries. Mr Vuljanic spoke earlier about the character of the parliament, and he said, he said, approximately, that the public's bad opinion about the Parliament is that the Parliament has no character. And you know how it's possible to change that. I think it's very simple to amend electoral legislation. If MPs were elected directly, for example, if in Croatia one half of the MPs were elected from the list and one half of them were elected in election units. I think everything would be different. '92. picked 50% directly, '95. One-third. That's how I got into this Parliament. I think that if we were to choose MPs in this way, that all of this would be a different attitude towards work and attitude towards the government. And I think that at that point, the MPs would really be much more free and open. In one word, we would be much more autonomous and not behaving like machines if we just raised our hands, but simply that character of the parliamentary representative and the Parliament could be heard. But let's let it go now. It's the subject of some other debate. But what do I want to say? Yes, compared to some other countries, the Croatian Parliament is far more likely to be free. In one Germany, in one Italy at plenary sessions, parliaments decide on far less things than Croatia. Here's my yearbook, I said before we discuss 300 laws only or we have 300 legal interventions. In one arranged Germany or Italy it is possible that we have interventions or that they have interventions in thirty, forty, possibly fifty legal texts, no more. There's a lot of work going on where? On their committees. But the question is when I talk about this Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs is just one thing. Whether this debate can be held after the prime minister's coming forward, whether it can be debated or not. As I read this bill, it is not clearly foreseen. Someone said, I think the Labourers said that our committees were the decorations of the Parliament. It is true that they are not fully defined, but this law may be the first of such species to give power under quotes if not to committees and at least to one committee and to the one for European affairs. I absolutely agree that our ministers should be more respectful of this House, under quotes to respect the team as much as 90% of the same and so was the case in earlier councils and in this, means 90% of the same government comes from these constituencies and after the term of office, I assume that 90% of the ministers will return to the representative benches again. Mr Mondekar also spoke about the Lisbon European Agreement, he also spoke of monitoring parliament as elsewhere, strengthening parliamentaryism, avoiding the democratic deficit right through that control institute. And what do you say to the end? We have one law that is one under quotes medium solution, probably it is not above European standards, but I would personally like Croatia to be recognised as a parliamentary democracy. But that is why it is probably necessary to change the relationship of MPs to Parliament, and I assure you that this would be possible if MPs were to be elected directly in the future. But I'm not sure how many MPs would simply agree to this choice. All in all, I think this law is acceptable. This is about first reading, by 1/07, you need to do it one more time, I guess by 1/07 the law will be found in front of us and I don't think there's gonna be any problem with the suggestions that are being heard here from the constituency benches being accepted and translated into legal norms. All in all this law is personally acceptable to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41577	Thank you very much. There are 5 replicas reported for your exposure. First replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41578	Your Honor, Mr. President, you've said a few sentences that I think you should look back on. One thing you said was that it's a mid-level government surveillance model. I'm asking if it's a mid-model of government oversight of the Parliament or the Parliament of Government? It seems to me that this is a continuation of what is today's practice, which is the government's supervision of the Parliament. Also, with that, we will actually protect much more Parliament's integrity than our boredom. Let me express a big, big doubt. It seems to me that now and at this opportunity, the possibility that the Parliament is actually estimating its role in parliamentary democracy at this very moment, and if we miss this opportunity, I don't think it's going to be a good thing, because, in my view, this law only makes the additional role of the Parliament look down on the government. When we talk about the situation of the Parliament's reporting and you commended the Prime Minister to report twice a year to the Parliament on the meetings held by the European Council, I think it is good, however, I personally suggest that it be four times a year for the Parliament to be of the most competent person of the prime minister to report on it. However, on the other hand, I must mention what many of my colleagues have said today, and I am afraid that if this practice as it has been, it will not mean anything at this time, because we here, as you can see, have neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs, nor even their deputies, the lowest officials who used to send before this Parliament, which best shows the government's relationship to the Parliament. So if we continue to accept it ourselves, wake us up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41579	Thank you very much. On behalf of Vice-President Damir Cain, the esteemed representative of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41580	No, I agree that someone here was supposed to be from the government. However, I would not agree that we are at risk because, by any chance, we are threatened as parliamentary representatives to take care that I do not know about the future of Parliament itself and parliamentaryism in Croatia, then we would probably be more at these plenary sessions, rather than just at the vote. However, we must return to history and simply look at the relationship between the executive and the Parliament until 2000. Okay, I can accept the fact that there was a war at the time, that half-presidential structure among other things might have been much more operational in running these operational affairs in liberating the country. Since 2000, a parliamentary system has been introduced here in the term of Prime Minister Racan, and I have certainly not noticed that there has been a significant difference in the mandates of the HDZ governments from 2003 to 2011. Perhaps after Mr. Racan, former Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor had one of the most liberal I would say the relationship to Parliament itself. However, the fact is this, if Parliament is bombed, as Mr Mondekar said with tons of EU material, whether we can simply monitor it, even though no one expects any parliamentary representative to have insight into any legal proposal found on our benches. Because such a polyhistologist or I don't know such an individual who will be so devoted to the work really doesn't. Or at least there wasn't a lawyer like that until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41581	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41582	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleague Cain. Well, I'm surprised to see all the MPs here who have cried in some way so far over this situation that the government hasn't come and represented the government. We should not weep in the ruins of Jerusalem. But we Croats really have reason to be worried, we know it's 918. Pribicevic took a few tiny souls and fools to Belgrade and made one of them. So there is a reason that the Croatian Parliament has a need for supervision, stronger supervision of our representatives in the EU. But what I'm saying is, I don't want to say today there's no government, there's no Ms. Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic, she's also European integration. So this is pro-forma, a historical act. This law is a historic act of pro-forma. Although our suit is set, we know that we cannot change almost anything, but pro-forms by looking at this historic act, a historical decision that our representatives will be able to work in the EU as they respond. Ms. Vesna Pusic has time to walk through the procession all day long, there is a procession of St. Duje, there's a procession of homosexuals. And in Split, she spends all day wearing some real colorful balloons in the town of Split, there is time, there is need, there is inspiration, there is something to say, she wants to be seen and she is not here today in the Croatian Parliament to tell us parliamentary representatives and her Croatian public gentlemen here are some words polite and then she could leave a deputy or anyone from the house. That is, Mr. Cain did not demean us here, but Mrs. Vesna Pusic humiliated this Parliament and humiliated the Croatian people because she showed by her failure to come to the opinion of the Croatian people on this important issue. And that's her humiliation. It's tradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41583	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41584	Well, I don't think she humiliated the Croatian people if she went to Split. She probably went down to "no" that aggression against a group of Croatian citizens two or three years ago. But let's let it go now. Yes, I can do the same again, I believe that someone from the Croatian Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration should have been with representatives in the Croatian Parliament today and should have listened to our remarks. But I assure you that everything would be different if the MPs directly chose, if they didn't simply choose from the list. Then, above Parliament, I was dear to God and to the Croatian Constitution. After the term of office, each MP would have to return to his constituency and request the salary of his constituents for a new term of office or should clearly thank the citizens for their trust. Everything would be different, the MPs would be much more responsible, the constituency benches would be more full, and the government's relationship to Parliament would be far, far, far, far more professional. However, I have the impression that such a model of electoral legislation in the Republic of Croatia will not happen soon. I would even say that in that case, it was the practice we had in '92, '95 that was much more liberal than that election model that was introduced if I wasn't wrong in '99, and the first time it started to be applied on January 3rd. Although I personally believe that he is not something that Croatia should leave. But if you were to modify it with the election team's election council, it would be much, much more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41585	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41586	Thank you very much, President. So you told your colleague Cain in your debate to contribute to parliamentary democracy, i.e. The better position of Parliament or the independence of MPs would actually be to choose on open lists i.e. Let's say some kind of direct or direct mandate from the election list. However, I think it is in this system where party bodies somehow dominate constitutional categories. institutions such as the President of the State, the President of the Parliament or the Prime Minister, are simply not possible. As it is not possible that you will probably be selected on the open list if you are not from the party proposed. So the party's proposing again. Who is 1st or 7th, so if 7th received more than 1st go instead of 1st, that practically in this parliamentary democracy that we have witnessed for 90 years does not mean too much independence or courage. When the majority agrees, it is also difficult here to oppose the government's proposals. We have seen on several examples that when something is decided down at Iblero's square that it is going through this Parliament not only through the tour of the SDP but also through all other coalition partners and that is what everyone is delighted about. That's why I see this as a struggle for this bill of ambition against another ambition. The ambition of Parliament to be above the government is good and it is good that until the second reading we may find an even better moment or a better quality article so that it can be controlled in the future perhaps as you say more democratically or courageously than it has been so far. However, in history it is evident that this simply does not work and that the domination of the party bodies over these institutions is nevertheless stronger both the courage and the independence of our parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41587	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41588	Yeah, I wasn't talking about open lists, I was talking about something else. If one half or at least one third of the MPs were to be chosen directly. So Croatia is numbering 4.5 million inhabitants plus diaspora let it remain as it is arranged let it be divided I don't know if Parliament has 153 MPs with 2 and half MPs should be elected directly, let it be one-third, let it be one-quarter like it was if I'm not mistaken in '95, and '92 half of the MPs were elected from the list, let them be open, and half of them were elected directly. At that time, the position of these MPs was certainly far, far more powerful than the executive authority but what would also probably be good if we were to get an insight, there is no need to hold any debate at the plenary session, an insight into how other parliaments are set up, what other parliaments are doing. If we had it ahead of us, I fear it would prove that the Croatian Parliament is in a much stronger position than the others, or I fear it would prove that they are in a weaker position. But if we had that, then we might be able to discuss even more Meritively about such legal proposals as they are today under the auspices of Croatian MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41589	Honorable representative Zoran Vinkovic and new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41590	Here's a distinguished colleague Cain ma I would like to join the direct election of MPs and even the introduction of a two-time parliament back home region where MPs would also be elected directly but I hope it would not be a law, the Frankenstein Law as it was now the one that is related to local elections, is, in practice, opening up the political trade of directly elected mayors with political parties, independent lists, etc., etc. I personally don't mind that there's no government here, the government will report it twice a year. However, I am more interested in the comparativeity of this law, which was passed and proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Although others explain it better than I'm a proposer, but about the Rules of Procedure itself. Therefore, the exercise of the powers of the Parliament in this Article 4 states that the powers of the Parliament under this Law are therefore to be exercised and taken over by the Committee on European Affairs. So if this article applies to the whole law then we will see that the Prime Minister will also come to inform only the Committee on European Affairs not the whole Parliament. Also in chapter 8. The European affairs of this new proposed Rules of Procedure do not have anywhere to be reported by this law, the law of the President, of the Prime Minister. In one article, however, you have the annual submission of the Prime Minister's report but there are no replicas allowed. Finally, this Law should bear the title of supervision and cooperation. Because first of all, the Croatian Government comes from this Parliament and the Croatian Parliament elects the Government, not the Government of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41591	Thank you very much, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41592	Almost entirely to agree with you, Mr. Vinkovic, that we need one more time. Say, fourth time repeat the direct elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is a pity that Croatia has abolished it by its 2000 or 2001 constitution there, so let's call it the Upper House or the County House. And it might also be good to think about it, although I do not believe that in due course it will be constitutionally regulated that perhaps through such a home Croatia will access a gradual decentralisation where the same jobs, a part of the business that has the House of Commons or this House of Representatives would be entrusted. The second home, meaning the County House until 2000 or 2001, was acting as one committee. And the way he was designed, he didn't make much sense. But if he really took over part of the constitutional and legislative powers or control over this House, everything would be different. It shouldn't have taken 120 MPs as many of us in the 2000/2003 period. The number of representatives could be raised to 153, but keep this second home from 50th and thus apostrophe of the role of the county or future Croatian regions and perhaps through this form decentralised the Republic of Croatia. But it's probably going to bring some other people together, probably some other people are going to think about it. Now we have what we have and I repeat for the role of Parliament, perhaps the most important at this point is the electoral model and the electoral system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41593	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the turn of the HNS Club and the esteemed representative Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41594	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a proposal of an extremely important law which will hit the basis of the functioning of the relations between the executive and the legislative authorities on a very important issue, which is European affairs which it receives on the meaning of, of course, much more after Croatia's entry into the European Union itself than it has been in this accession process, i.e. meeting the criteria for full membership in which the Croatian Parliament has played an extremely important, complex, very demanding role of adaptation... in Croatia what we call a European acquis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that the Lisbon Agreement recognises the situation in which the European Union was found in the first decade of this millennium, which is a major deficit, according to counterpart Mondekar, a democratic deficit. The fact is, therefore, that critics have set up several very critical points for the functioning of the system, including the very ideas of European association, which primarily referred to the level of influence of citizens on the adoption and policies and also concrete decisions in the European Union system. And that is why the Lisbon Treaty actually opens a new chapter, giving a higher level of responsibility also the possibility for the European Parliament by opening up a space for affirmation of national parliaments in the decision-making process. But just as we have recently seen by adopting a special law and defining the new institution of the citizens' initiative. The Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats regrets that the debate on this proposal has come now. We think it would be much better if we had a proposal on the table two or three months ago. That the Committee on European Affairs has already been established, that it has already started to work. That we already have a defined and well-founded special service behind it that will have to accompany it. It is about the most demanding working body of the Croatian Parliament. And I would say to the body that will have a very high intensity, frequency of work of meetings, definitions, views and evaluation of what is coming from the European Union next to the Committee on Legislatives in our Croatian Parliament. That is why we expect that behind this Committee there will be a special drive where European law experts, translators, people who will therefore be able to provide full logistics to this committee. We do not join those who, on the one hand, are saying that it would be worth raising Parliament's autonomy in deciding against the executive authority, and on the other hand here they wish that even in these cases when the proposing parliamentary working body is sitting here a representative of the Government. The government has shown itself, so this is a question that arises from the initiative of the parliamentary body, and we don't see any reason why we need someone here from the government to patronize anything on this matter. We are now regulating matters between the legislative and executive authorities in one way, which has shown this practice, definitely represents a new model of our own, and as counterpart Mondekar said, there is no uniform practice and there is no single model applied by all Member States in terms of the role of the national parliament. Some have accepted the so-called. softer, some firmer model, some of the levels of influence of the national parliament itself raise to the highest possible level by limiting the executive authority's space to the lowest possible extent. However, we need to know that the Croatian Parliament is still in a group of those national parliaments that has the highest level of legitimate activity possible. In other national parliaments where systems are persistent, where they are therefore solid, based on good practice, the intensity of legislative activity is far lower. Let's compare what the Croatian Parliament is doing with national other parliaments, compare the amount of obligations in the process of passing new laws and niveling the existing ones, and we'll see how much work there is. We welcome the proposal that in establishing the model by which the Croatian Parliament will share European affairs with the Croatian Government, a structure in which the Croatian Parliament will have a very high level of responsibility and influence, on the other hand, to delegate the sum of its obligations and powers to the specifically designed Committee on European Affairs and where, in fact, the next practice of other countries will accept the best practice we have seen in one, second, third or fourth group of countries when it comes to different models. It is definitely clear that when we start to use it we will probably look at other eyes than what we are looking at now that it is not yet functional and in this sense there is room for the Croatian Parliament to therefore improve the model of operation when it comes to the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. What we would certainly suggest to the proposer, so the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is the redefinition of several now proposed solutions. In fact, we agree with what the Committee on Foreign Policy has defined or identified as a disadvantage in Article 4 because it is clear that foreign security and defence policy is not only a business to be dealt with by the Committee on European Affairs but also directly within the competence of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. But we must also bear in mind that there is no exclusive when it comes to European affairs on any committee or on the future board of the Croatian Parliament that will be engaged almost and only in this. Because all the boards of the Croatian Parliament, all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, have their role, the intended role, and we will see later on at the agenda point relating to the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, or the new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that each board of the Croatian Parliament has a certain level of obligations but also opportunities to monitor policies, measures and everything that comes or departs from European documents, from European directives and practices that wish to be imposted into our legal system. We also propose to consider and to define something different or better, mainly in detail what is now covered by Article 11. So when it is said that the Prime Minister is twice a year to submit a report to the Parliament on the meetings held by the European Council, then when it is said afterwards that the President of the Parliament may call on the Prime Minister to present the position of the Republic of Croatia for a meeting of the European Council before the meeting of the European Council remains unclear, so first of all, in which cases this discretion can be used, secondly on whose proposal. Since it is not defined here whose proposal the President of the Parliament reacts to, then the question arises whether it is his original discretion to decide at what time the President of the Parliament wishes to call on the President of the Government or to apply the general principles of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which define who are actually possible promoters of any parliamentary initiative, so here we have parliamentary representatives, clubs and working bodies. In this particular case, it should be possible to know whether a proposal for an extraordinary invitation to the Prime Minister in the Croatian Parliament can be given to another authorised applicant, or whether it is his discretionary right, even if there is a possibility of applying the general principles of the Rules of Procedure whether the President of the Croatian Parliament is able to decide independently whether the proposal will accept or not. I think that would be good. The second question is whether the Prime Minister's report is being voted on, whether a report is being accepted or rejected, or whether it is only being taken into consideration. These are important things, and I think we would avoid possible recommendations if, in the final proposal for this law, we would define what is actually the fate of the report. In this sense, the HNS club of the Liberal Democrats will support this proposal, and here I pray that within this relatively short period of time until the second reading, until the final proposal is debated, these institutes will be a little clearer in order to join the European Union with a ready-made model that should practically be applied at the same time as this law enters into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41595	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and vice president of the house, Honored Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41596	Dear Mr. President, I would like to say first of all that I highly appreciate the courage and correctness of the honourable representative who expressed regret that there is no government representative here, because of course the government representative who should be here is the foreign minister and the president of his party. I think it's actually courage to say something like that, but also correctness. Because the fact that there is absolutely no one here once again emphasizes the government's very white attitude towards Parliament, and also according to this law. Equally, I think it is very important that a properly respected representative said it is sad not to use another word today that we are discussing this two weeks before formal entry into the EU, and that, at the same time, a year and a half were lost by doing nothing, and this could all have been done. The mechanisms could have been established and things could have worked out a long time ago. This clearly points to the diletanteism of the government and an amateur approach to it. And why do I say government? Because it is white that this proposal did not come from Parliament but from somewhere else. And it is clear to everyone and to all of us here, only one wants to admit it, and the other will not admit it to the Croatian public. And I finally agree completely that no one should patronize this Parliament. But when you look at this proposal, that's exactly it. In particular, when we refer to the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, where there are 296 articles in particular, with respect to European affairs with the letters and figures of 300 articles, you have a total of only 10 if we make some formal articles dedicated to the relations of the Parliament and the European Union, and this shows the relationship. So one to thirty, it's so obviously important to us right now and to the EU's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41597	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41598	Comrade Reiner, what you just said is media experts calling it spino. So in that first part, to quote my words that I didn't say at all to draw a conclusion about how you allegedly agree with me is not correct. So, exactly the opposite. If this act is proposed by the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and not by the Government, I do not see that we need anyone from the Government to sit here and patronise this issue because we define it on our own. So, exactly the opposite of what you said. It takes no courage but a living logic. And it is true, we regret that this debate comes late and it would have been better if it had happened two or three months ago not only to have more time to discuss and to possibly define some new ideas that we could apply. It is never too late for us to understand each other, but for the Committee on European Affairs to start working on its own. That's what this is about. So, I hope we get along okay now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41599	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41600	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Richembergh, this isn't spin, this is a replica I'm going to say. I think I've been listening very carefully. I heard that you expressed regret that at the end of this trip to the EU we received 20 days before entering this law first reading. The only thing I don't understand is, if you're sorry why you didn't as a member of the ruling coalition do something to get this law six months earlier, so that all of what we objected to is short-sustainability in the first place to decide on this law, we avoid it, and a better quality application of this law and to discuss the text of this law at all. But what your discussion has offered me is the fact that you said we didn't need anyone from the government to patronize the Parliament here. The government said in over 95% of the cases the bill promoter, so we expected him to be the legislator of this law. At the end of the line, it doesn't matter who the author is. It is important that at least a moment before the EU's accession, however, the law came to the Parliament in the first place. But the fact that someone from the government would be sitting here is not patronising Parliament, but is proof of the political maturity, political culture and political competence of the government to hear what Parliament thinks about the law that speaks of Parliament's and government's cooperation. So, today, no one from the government has the need to listen and participate in this debate is another claim in favour of the government being arrogant and acting in a way that demeans everything that the Parliament might hear about its work and the laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41601	Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41602	Comrade Mlakar, I appreciate your courage and courage to make such firm claims about things that you have no proof of. Where did you get proof that I didn't do anything to get this on the agenda before? It can only impress you that just now it has come, so you can estimate that in my efforts I have not been effective enough. But don't impute other people with that kind of conclusion. And second, who tells you the government doesn't listen to this? Be assured that they listen very, very carefully to what is being discussed here because this law regulates affairs between the Parliament and the Government. So it's very, very important to them. But to come to the Croatian Parliament I suppose it is a prerequisite for someone to call them. The question is, were they not invited to come here and sit here? Here is the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So he's the bearer, the formal holder of this whole business. Who he consulted with, whether he had before that preparations with the Committee on European Integration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I suppose, have consulted and that this has taken so long. But let's not call the government me because it's not our job, the government should have called eventually someone else if he thought it was necessary. And since he didn't call, he didn't call, the government is listening very carefully, and it might be better that we can talk this way because I don't know how a government official would even get a word in today's session because he's not a proposing, and according to our Rules of Procedure, he can't participate in this debate at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41603	The government has sent an opinion, in its opinion, on who will represent her here in this debate, to finish it. Next replica and respected representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41604	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's an esteemed colleague of yours, you said he was the motionary of the Constitutional Committee, and therefore he doesn't need a representative of the government to be here today at this debate. But why, for the past year, did government representatives or should I be more specific to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs on the Committee on Foreign Policy assure us that they were working on this law and that the government would soon refer it to the parliamentary procedure? Therefore, the Kukurik coalition may not know who drinks and pays, but the fact is and it can be seen in the records that the government has always assured us that it will be working, that it will soon come, that by the end of 2012, it will be important and then nothing. Then suddenly it was decided to be the Committee on European Integration and yet nothing because obviously within the Kukuriku coalition came I think that it was evident in one debate that some representatives from the ruling coalition also disagreed with what was proposed, so it transferred everything to the Committee on the Constitution, which is probably under greater control. But the question remains why wouldn't you be the government representative today, and they told us last year that they were working on it and that they would soon propose it to the Croatian Parliament? So why don't the Croatian Parliament decide how the government should operate in European affairs? Is this coordination in the Banski dvori or, for example, in a ministry bearing the name of European affairs?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41605	Yes, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41606	I haven't been to the meetings that you've been to, and I don't know what they've been telling you, but I know it's definitely true that all of you who mention the Committee on European Integration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other representatives of the Government have been involved in the design of a draft that the Committee on the Constitution later formed in an official proposal. So that's the first thing. The other thing is, when you say you don't know what the Kukuriku coalition is about who drinks, who pays, it's very good. You drank everything and there's no drop left on the bottom of the barrel, and now we're all paying for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41607	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the HDZ Representatives' Club, I ask the consent to continue our work without delay. We would also like to discuss the draft Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament today. Thank you very much. And now it is the HDZ club and the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41608	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European issues. We have completed years of negotiations, we have signed an accession agreement, the ratification process has been completed in the Member States and Croatia will become a full member of the EU on 1 July 2013. I think there is a common position about it that we are satisfied that we have made great progress, a major change and in the geopolitical position of Croatia, but also in the civilization achievements that EU membership brings with it. The Republic of Croatia voluntarily joins the community of states and nations that are among the most developed and most successful in the world. They are also countries that are the most organised in the world because it really is one extremely complex, extremely complex system where 27 countries, soon 28, cross their policies, their national interests, speak in their languages. So it's such a complex system that probably never existed in the world before. And that's why it's very good and very important for that system to be well prepared. There are great challenges ahead of us both in the economy and in agriculture, in our sciences, in education, in all segments of society, and in particular there will be a great challenge for our administration. The issue of administrative capacity, the question of the capacity of our executive, legislative authorities to deal with what the EU requires of member states is indeed a major challenge and will need to be very well prepared. The new role is also given to the Croatian Parliament, and that is why we are passing this law. And it is good that this law is finally here before us, but it is not good that only now less than 20 days after we enter the EU we have the first reading, the first plenary session. I'm going to ask the ruling majority why you waited until the last moment, and you knew since 9.12.2011 when the accession contract was signed that this law should be prepared? What caused this delay? In HDZ, we want to be well-intentioned and we have shown through all these months that we care about passing a good law. But we have to ask some questions because it is evident from the debate today that there is some conflict between parties in the ruling Kukurik coalition. So, while the HNS representative claims that no one has called on the government's representatives, the president of the SDP, who claims that they were invited and even that in their explanation and reaction to the law, they said who would represent the government. So is it perhaps one of the reasons why we have the law only now, that the ruling coalition could not reach agreement on how and how it will treat the issue? Maybe there's another reason, and that's the government's failure and the ruling majority, whether it's a non-chalant that strongly marks the work of this government because nobody here really bothered them. No unions, no signatories to request a referendum, no opposition. You could have done what you wanted and failed. It took you a year and a half to go out with that law. I dare say this, if we had negotiated the way you wrote this law, we would never have finished negotiations. A great deal of effort and effort has been made, it is visible and I am pleased to listen to both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister when outside Croatia praises what progress has been made in these past few years, when they talk about the great achievements of Croatian society and the Croatian state, but unfortunately they always say that when they are outside Croatia. It would be nice to send a message from this pay phone and say yes, our predecessors have really done a huge job, and here it is just for us to bring this job to an end. But unfortunately, when only one law of 17 articles was to be made, it took a year and a half. And the third thing to explain is really this course of writing this law, the holder of the law's writing activity, because I can confirm what fellow Stier and some of the participants said in today's debate that as the first author of this law, the government appeared. And I've talked many times with representatives of the ruling majority who told me that, that here in the government only they're not agreeing between each other now, and here's the minute next month is going to be the law. And I've been listening to it for almost a year. But there's no law. And then suddenly he shows up as a proposal for a Committee on European Integration and we have the first session of the Committee and we are proposing a Committee on European Integration, we call even a public debate on this. Suddenly there is no other meeting where we should continue to discuss this law rather than say as thunder from the bucket there is no more, we are no longer proposing now is the proposing Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And it's normal to ask a question, who actually wrote that law? Who decided who would be the bearer of this law at the plenary session? And it's perfectly legitimate to ask that question because the Prime Minister is constantly calling for order. You're the government, you're the majority that introduces order. You are constantly calling for transparency. Well, you've been working on your own. We in opposition had no idea how these preparations were going except for the informal information we were getting. I will briefly say here this preparation for the EU's entry, while during the HDZ which you objected to indemnity there was a state committee to prepare such a ceremony in which you and the representatives of the opposition participated, we today have absolutely no information from the opposition on neither this law nor on the marking of EU entry, and you have absolutely taken everything from you. And that's that transparency, that's the order you keep teaching us about. But we'll probably have this law by 1.7. Unfortunately, we won't be able to seriously test it and it's a key observation that the HDZ club has, we don't have time for any simulations or any training. The gentleman who spoke on behalf of the CNS says he's sorry, too. Well, of course he's sorry. We have been able to do simulations for the past few months with documents coming from Brussels, test them as the Government comes with its position before Parliament. We could have done it all and been a lot, much better prepared than we're going to be now. I will now say probably 1.7. we have the law, but as a Parliament, we will be completely unprepared for the implementation of this law, and it will probably take us a long time to start working as we need to be a quality member and partner in the EU. Because I said at the beginning it's a very complex system, it's very demanding, it may well exceed our capacities particularly administrative and it's not to play with. That is why we cannot speak for sure what the quality of this law is and what its ultimate achievements are and how much we have hit with the balance between efficiency and control of the Assembly over the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And if we had this law that happened two or three months ago, we wouldn't have had a case with our candidate for the Court of Auditors, Mr. Matas, because we would probably have questioned him here in the hearing, and maybe we would have assessed that he wasn't competent enough for Croatia not to be in such an awkward situation that the first candidate to be proposed falls on the test and that the committee said he wasn't professional enough and qualified. That's too bad, we missed the time. As far as the text of the law is concerned, so I'm talking about the impression because practice is going to show whether or not it's true, at the HDZ Club, there seems to be a solid balance between efficiency and supervision. Practice may show something else, maybe it will show that Parliament's supervision of the government needs to be stronger, maybe it will show that in order to be efficient, we need to be a little more flow and a little faster. But we'll see. Unfortunately, we can't at this point, and obviously we all agree on this, I've heard discussions and other clubs that are part of the ruling coalition, and they express a certain skepticy of certain caution towards the ultimate achievements of this law. The law is usually very short. He has only 17 articles, he introduces us into basic terms, in the power of the Parliament, he explains the procedures by which the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government will work. And as far as the first seven articles are concerned, we have no significant grudges. We have a first comment, and here I mention it on behalf of the HDZ Club in Article 8(3) where it says: "The position of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union document in the Assembly is explained by the representative designated by the Government.". We believe that we need to clearly define who this government representative is, because as we can see here today there are no government representatives, this may be a message that they will be treated this way later. So it would be good to define that the minister has to come to that meeting, say, or perhaps his deputy. But a representative of the government can also mean that some lower-ranking officer will come. I would ask you, Proposers, to consider this article 8 and to more clearly define who will come to our meetings on behalf of the Government, to our meetings. Because I repeat today's example as much as some have tried to defend it, to reduce the importance of not being a representative of the Government, this is a very, very ugly message and to the Croatian Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is really about underestimating the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Except for Article 8. The HDZ Club believes that the 11th article should be added. That's our fellow Stier's suggestion. For this proposal, we also received the principle of agreement of the motionor, we did not fully agree on what the text of this additional item would be, if we agree in the second reading, HDZ will support this Law. We therefore believe that in Article 11, the following should be added: "Before each meeting of the European Council, the Prime Minister shall, in writing, report to the Committee on the position of the Republic of Croatia. The Prime Minister shall personally report to the Committee on the positions to be represented in the European Council in the event that the topics of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia are on the agenda or at the invitation of the Committee.". So, except twice a year that the Prime Minister will report to the plenary session and we consider it good and correct, given the dynamics, given the development of the situation within the European Union itself, we hold it extremely important that there is more frequent communication between the Government, i.e. the Prime Minister and the Parliament, to report to us in writing on the positions and in case of need, in case of some exceptional importance, we believe that the Committee should also call for a committee meeting to explain more thoroughly the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Also in Article 11, Mr Richembergh talked about the possibility of the President of the Parliament calling on the Prime Minister, in principle we have no objection but I think we should still clarify what these situations are and by what authority the President of the Parliament may, at his own request, call on the Prime Minister. However, whether it is necessary to hold a debate at the presidency, whether we should perhaps conduct a broader discussion about it, or if we all agree that the President of the Parliament does so on his own. Here is one of the questions for which we need to find some additional solutions for me. And another proposal which does not concern directly the law but concerns the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure define the composition of the Committee on European Affairs. There are six outside associates to be appointed by the board. We believe that these 6 external associates should be defined in advance by the same form as we did in the National Committee for Monitoring and Monitoring of Negotiations. So we think that there should be an HUP, unions and an academic community. And to be the people who propose these very groups, that association. On the other hand, we believe that there should be two representatives of civil society. One to come for the proposal in the ruling majority, the other to the minority's proposal. And we think that we should have one expert on European law on the board. Some will say it's a difference from other committees. But this committee is really specific, it's much bigger, it has two vice presidents and it's an exception. And I'm sorry that two vice presidents were introduced, that one is now an additional fuse from the ruling majority. So, at a time of "non-democrat" under the allegations of HDZ, the opposition had the lead position in the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, the head of the Committee on European Integration. We today have no leading position and now we are still in the Committee on European Affairs except for the president who is from the ruling majority and vice president who is from the ruling majority. Well, that's too bad. And here's a little bit. Unfortunately, my time is up. We don't have any information on how the government will function. [[/Intruder: That's right!]] So, as Parliamentarians, we don't have, I'm sorry, Mr. President, Vice President, very important, we don't have any information about who's in charge of these issues in the government, I expected that today someone from the government will explain it to us, we don't know what the structure of the government's team will be dealing with these documents. Absolutely no information about what the government is doing. We have no answer to the question whether or not we will strengthen the administrative capacity of the Parliament. With what we have now, it's not enough to deal with the challenges we have. And the third thing, proposed by his colleague Mlakar, is also to consider whether this law should perhaps be called a law on the co-operation of the Parliament and the Government in European Union matters. Because European issues and European affairs are wider than the European Union's jobs. So that's the technical question that we should... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41609	Comrade Jandroković, it is very important to use the rules of procedure in the right way, but you will have time to complete this because as many as 6 representatives from your club want to replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41610	Thank you, Vice President, I always respect your decision, but I remember once when the Prime Minister spoke two minutes longer, that's when the President of the Parliament said, for the public's interest, so here's thank you for giving me that minute because of the public's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41611	Well, the public's interest will certainly be satisfied with your answers to the replicas of your clubmates. So with your disagreement, your exposure is the first one that doesn't agree with Davor Ivor Stier, so he wants to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41612	Thank you, Mr. President, as far as I know the replica doesn't necessarily mean dissent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41613	Now, you don't know that well, you consult Klaic, the words of the river, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41614	Okay, we'll consult. We'll consult. From what I understand, the replica can also be interpreted and a little wider than the very hard and narrow interpretation that it is necessarily a disagreement. However, what I wanted to point out and on the basis of the presentation on behalf of my colleague Jandrokovic's club, because it is indeed unacceptable that today we do not have a representative of the government, the more he is and the more he is determined and what the President of the Parliament said, the Parliament informed about who should be today on behalf of the Government in this debate, and there is no one. And the team is rather bizarre that also a colleague from the HNS club has accused or tried to accuse HDZ of not having a government representative here in the Assembly today. This is indeed bizarre, as it may be strange to discuss today such an important law that should regulate control and relations between the Parliament and the Government, and in it we do not define how the Government will come specifically to the positions it will represent in the European Union, and the Parliament certainly has the power to regulate it by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41615	The replica corresponds to the respected Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will take advantage of the opportunity in the replica to mention what I wanted about the Government and its status when it comes to this law and when it comes to the affairs of the European Union. So the law doesn't say anything about forming a government on European Union issues. The MPs here are to conduct a survey between them and ask them if anyone knows how, what is the procedure, which is the structure within the government on European affairs. We don't even have a government representative here today to tell us. Why, I don't know, you obviously don't know each other either because HNS claims, the SDP claims otherwise. And of course we're worried because it's highly complex matter. We are entering the European Union, we have completed negotiations, we have signed a contract, and then on fundamental issues for which no one is to blame, we are not to blame either Brussels or any capital city in the European Union. We ourselves are not, or you are unable to form bodies that will deal with the challenges of the European Union. We've done our work in Parliament, we know what to do, but we don't know what our partner will do. Perhaps what we have agreed here in the House will be entirely wrong because we cannot discuss it today with anyone who is a partner in the process. What a relationship, really completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41617	Second replica and esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41618	Thank you very much. Col. Jandrokovic, so we at the HDZ Club really expected this to be a joint business between the Government and the Parliament because ultimately the Government or whoever is already going to be worse should be representing some common views and common opinions. But the government was unable to pass this law for a year and a half if nothing else put it into some debate to discuss it the same way as it was not able to pass any laws that were known to have to be passed until 1.7. Is the reason for, and obviously if you just look at yesterday's debate on the VAT law where certain directives of the European Union are being violated, whether certain things want to be pushed under the grain, and apparently that pushing under the grain is the inability of the agreement between both the Government and the Parliament to lead the main word. However, I don't think it matters who will lead the main word but it is important that we, with our legal proposals, and with certain proposals that I am going to say so, are going to choose Brussels for the best possible position and the better status of the Republic of Croatia. And what I'm saying at the end of the day is really asking the question that while we were conducting negotiations and changing a series of laws and even a series of behaviors in Croatia with these laws, we were referring this way to whether we would have finished the negotiations by 1.7 last year. And what is very important then, we gave the opposition a very important role, which is the head of the National Committee, and today the opposition wants to marginalise itself, and I don't think it's marginalizing the opposition, but simply certain things that want to be hidden from the eyes of the Croatian public, we have to do it under the motto, and in fact the real reason is something completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41619	The replica corresponds to the respected Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41620	Thank you very much. I agree with you, Mr. Shucker, but I'm bothered by something else. I'm bothered by this continuous doctoring, calling, teaching. We hear all the time about the Nordic model and the Byzantine model. Well, here's the Nordic model, you're really Nordic, well done, gentlemen of the Nordics from SDP and HNS, you've made this really Nordic. You also called it a Middle Ages conflict and modern Croatia. This is just as modern as you've done, really, it's very modern 1.7 when you enter the European Union to pass a law that you should have passed a year earlier. It's really a sign that you're not from the Middle Ages, but that you're modern. Introduce order, go the hard way, go the hard way on your own, you don't have to lead the citizens the hard way. This is the hard way, is, because we're going to have to practice through membership. Just nod your head, just nod your head, so somebody's got to tell you, somebody's got to tell you. Because if we didn't tell you, you'd think you were really the best. You're really so much you thought you were the best that more people didn't understand at all. You're not good at anything, and you think you're the best. Well, we have to tell you, so don't be angry. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41621	I'd like to ask you nicely if you don't throw yourself out of the bench. Third replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jandrokovic, you spoke about the need for communication between the Parliament and the government and whether it would be possible to have that communication, but it is certainly good to hear and our President of the Parliament would say let them hear. But that's exactly what I'm trying to say, in this area of the challenge you said about agriculture, there really is a weak hearing. If we only remember that paying agency, you know that at two moments we had to change and that agency went through the needle ears after the commission gave a negative answer about it. So this is talking about the state of agriculture. The second problem in agriculture today is that the chamber ended up as it ended, and now these services are not prepared to prepare the rest, part of the job, to make, prepare our farmers for and 380m euros, 330m euros. They're not and how can they do that? And the third thing, even the milk package that is essential for dairy producers has not been delivered. Although Regulation 261 of the EU says the status of farmers must be guaranteed as necessary. So it's not about hearing or hearing, it's about simple, one irresponsibility towards the Croatian village and simply the write-off of the Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41623	Next replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a respected colleague that this law should be passed we know since June 2010 when you were the minister in charge of this area and when you knew perfectly well every chapter on which to negotiate. I find it important that this law has passed a very extensive debate, that it is before us. We discussed this law on the Committee on the Constitution, which is the Proposer, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Interior, the Committee on Foreign Policy. A wide public debate has been opened on this law. A public debate was organised in the Assembly, involving representatives of civil society. So please, how many laws for your term of office have been presented to the public this way and this way gone through a public debate? I don't know many of them. And for the end. As far as the government is concerned, it's very clear. The government will do what is prescribed by law, and the law, unlike what some colleagues think, does not bring a government but a parliament. And we are here to prepare him, to explain him, to discuss him, and if we agree with his content to adopt him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41625	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow coat of arms, I'm a little afraid of your interpretation. I see that constitutional and legal experts wonder when you professionally interpret the Constitution, as well as 700,000 people who have signed a referendum request are surprised, so be more careful when you give your assessment of whether something is good or not. But why I was talking about the passage of this law and the way it came to the plenary session. For a year from the ruling majority, you assured us that this law was being prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that it would be the holder and promoter of the law. It's been going on for a year. Ask your colleagues, I won't name them here right now, but we waited in HDZ for you to come with that law, believe you when you spoke next week, next month, here you are. And suddenly there is no government but a Committee on European Integration appears. We had our first meeting, and there we were very, very well-intentioned. We announced a public debate and announced a second meeting of the Committee on European Integration where we will continue as a competent body, as the holder of the proposal for a debate on how to improve the text. Then, without any explanation to the members of the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that suddenly assumes the role of the holder appears. Well, of course you didn't write that law. You will now be admitted to us here and tell us I didn't write the law because you didn't write it, because before that law was proposed by the Committee on European Integration. So it may not be the Committee on European Integration either, but also the Government. We don't know, say it here. I don't know why you don't say that. And it's nothing questionable for the Parliament to be the one to dictate to the government, but that when we know the background, when we know everything that's happened then it's not your intention to strengthen the Parliament, but your intention here is to overcome the conflict that exists between the SDP and the HNS in the preparation of that law and you've transferred everything to committees. When you even saw that the Committee on European Integrations debate was going in a direction that didn't suit you, you might have given it to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We don't know, because you're not frames and you don't want to explain to the representatives and the Croatian public why this happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41627	Next replica, dear Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41628	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Jandrokovic, you said in your debate that relations in the coalition among party presidents are bad. I just wanted to confirm that that's how it is and that's what I came up with on the basis of writing these daily newspapers that have more than 25,000 words, and that's almost daily. We learn from such daily newspapers that let's say the president of one party doesn't talk to the president of another coalition party but that they send letters. I remember from those same daily newspapers that the appointment of a minister went in a way that came to the candidates through a text. Simply all these things and their relationships break on the back of Croatian citizens, and then we come to this situation that we are discussing today, i.e. The government's relations with Parliament, and in light of the fact that we are entering the EU in a few days. We here as agents have three options to control the work of that government. This is through parliamentary issues, through work on parliamentary committees and through debates in Parliament. When we get to the first parliamentary issues, we cannot control them, because they do not answer almost one question directly asked to them. It's just that there's been some kind of ignoring of the MPs themselves. However, we have often witnessed the government's relations with parliamentarians in a way that we can't be told by assistant ministers, that there are no representatives who need to defend certain bill proposals at all, so that when we enter the EU in a month or so, I think that we will all be surprised together that this will work in the light of this law and the envisaged relationship that this law provides.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41629	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, indeed, fellow Boric was strange, astounding to watch when Mr. Richembergh, on behalf of the CNS, said that no one from the parliament invited the government's representative to this debate, and then President of the SDP Parliament told him that it was not true, in the government's view of this law, who represents the government in the Parliament when this law is being discussed. So to each other, unfortunately there is no President of the Council of Lek or Mr. Richembergh here, it would be nice if they said, one of them is not telling the truth. My people, you are the ruling coalition, you are referring to this law that regulates the relations of the Parliament and the Government in European affairs in this way. So how do you apply to laws that regulate taxes, the economy, small and medium enterprises, agriculture, science, education, health care? Same or worse? And this is a picture of how you manage Croatia. This law that we will probably support if you adopt what we propose, but the way you do it, the way you communicate between yourselves, to the public, according to the opposition, towards all interested is shameful. It shows how deeply you don't care about the interests of citizens and interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41631	And this all worked out for you, Mr. Boric, because it responded to your replica. Next replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Jandrokovic, here, I will give you one replica according to Klaic, and it is about that of my colleague Jandrokovic, no matter what you warn but perhaps you should have said that, and you remember well, you were Minister and there was also former Prime Minister, that in the past term of that government hundreds of laws were in line with EU laws, but you remember that blockade of the current SDP's opposition. Nevertheless, negotiations have been completed, and despite this, we had the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, whose presidency was today's Minister, Ms Vesna Pusic, whom we listened to with respect and respect, she followed those negotiations. We don't have one of those boards anymore, and the fact is one more, let me just say. You say they left the opposition out of any organization. Yeah, that's right. And why should we, in particular, be involved with some who have been closely involved in the EU accession? We read in the papers that the entire diplomatic court is appalled because it doesn't know what's going to happen, but also what's most interesting is read in the paper that one of the bearers of that organization is going to be the person who owes this country 7 million kuna taxes. Now, is it not known about this because of these corrupt people who are going to participate or really not known because they don't know what this is about and are not aware that we are actually entering the EU in 1.07?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41633	The replica matches Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that's exactly what I wanted to talk to my colleagues about. Please, if I may? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In my presentation, I mentioned the period when HDZ was headed by the government and compared it to the current period when the SDP heads the government. When HDZ had a majority in parliament, today it has a majority SDP. And here's a comparison. The facts are impregnable again. So, at the head of the National Committee for Monitoring and Monitoring of Negotiations, she was a representative of the opposition, today's minister, Mrs Pusic. At the head of the Committee on European Integration was Mr Mimica, we believe the Commissioner very soon, the first Croatian Commissioner in the European Commission. We had the State Committee to mark the grand celebrations, which included representatives of the opposition. So this non-democratic HDZ and those ways of ruling that you're attacking so much, that so much of it you're showing is proving to be better and more democratic than what you have today. You've abolished the National Committee, so there's no way to control what's been going on in the last year and a half. The Committee on European Integration is headed by the ruling majority. We now have a new Committee on European Affairs, and will be headed by the ruling majority again, but you are introducing two vice-presidents and another vice president as a fuse, I guess, too, from the ruling majority's ranks. So give me an analysis and be objective and tell me you were really better at it than we are today. We don't trust you, we don't trust the citizens. Here are the citizens who can sign over 700 grand, but we won't support it in the House because that's who we are. We're right. You have no right! Democracy is, it is no longer a system that has allowed you to do so which failed 23 years ago. I'm sorry, my dear Nordics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41635	Here you will now be replicated by your colleague Goran Maric, and you will be able to answer him as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41636	Thank you very much. You spoke of challenges awaiting Croatia by joining the EU and mentioned the candidate of the Croatian representative for the Court of Auditors in the EU. It was on the first challenge, not that Croatia failed the exam, but that it embarrassed the state. With the proposal of the Croatian representative for the Court of Auditors, the government has caused public international disgrace to the Republic of Croatia because it has proposed a candidate who does not meet the requirements of a member of the Court of Auditors in any way. Namely, the proposed candidate has not spent an hour in his professional career in the audit business. At the same time, the Government had a proposal from the Office for the State Audit of Representatives who were professionally and professionally optimally responding to a member of the Court of Auditors and who would certainly have passed that proposal. The government has not even responded to the proposal to the State Audit Office, but has therefore proposed a candidate who, according to my knowledge, is retired and who was to be appointed to 6 years and at a salary of 20,000 euros. I don't know if there's anyone watching video interviews that wasn't a shame on him and that video was banned on public television and it went quiet. Is it possible to assign functions to damage the reputation of the Republic of Croatia? Is it logical that public indignation is charged in the wages of an individual 20 thousand euros per month for a period of six years? Can ideological belongings and intricacies be subordinated to professionalism, expertise and international reputation of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think that's supposed to happen, but the government has tried to transfer the criteria of the abroad staffing it to international borders but it's not going through.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41637	Thank you. Here's the answer to this replica: Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41638	Thank you very much. So he's a colleague of Maric's we talked about. If we had the law, if we had a board we'd probably listen to Mr. Matas and say probably a man is obviously not good enough to go as a candidate in that position. But we didn't have the law, we didn't listen to Mr. Matas and what happened happened. But what do we do today? We don't have a simple answer to that because here today, when we talk about this, mostly the representatives of the ruling majority are silent, they get their heads down, and they figure out what they've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41639	The last replica and the most respected Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41640	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would just ask my fellow MPs that when we talk about this candidate in question, what happened to him at the hearing is a question if you have read the procedural mistakes of his staff in fulfilling the questionnaire itself, but even if he did not let us not speak embarrassed Croatia but take just a list of members of the institution concerned and how many Member States still do not have a man after the 4th or 5th hearings the 5th candidate did not pass them. Well, let's not embarrass the Republic of Croatia about that now. If there was a problem there was and there should be a different approach, but let's not talk about it. As for the EU members of the government who are coming and coming to the government, I would not personally enter excessively. We can define that they are the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Doministers and the Assistants. So what we're left with here is the possibility that the committees will be attended by those who are specifically working on eu-coordinators, so the level of assistants who represent and carry this particular matter and send a position towards, say, Coreper. Ministers remain for a hearing for the council itself and we are left with the possibility that from the Euro Coordinator of the level of assistant ministers we will listen to up to the highest level in the Assembly. And I think that's a good suggestion for me personally. And lastly, there were certain changes in the procedure, the Committee on European Integration had a session at which he established the draft, the draft was subsequently forwarded to the Committee on the Constitution which established the proposal, and only where I can't tell you for the right of colleagues that no one knew. Within a few days, an e-mail was sent to all the members of the Committee on European Integration and should be said openly, on the one hand, this law draws upon the difference between the Rules of Procedure which the other Committee does, a major amendment of the Rules of Procedure. Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of two public debates and by 5.6 committees of interested parties. It just happened for a more technical and simple practice to bring one committee together to make it easier for us to work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41641	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41642	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Mondekar when it comes to Mr. Matas things like that happen to others, but if we had a board if we had been hearing maybe it wouldn't have happened, that's one thing. As for the government's representatives, I was encouraged by my intervention today's lack of government representatives because if we don't make a firm commitment to a government that's obviously either non-chalant or arrogant, you'll judge it yourself, then they'll send incompetent people or maybe no one because they should be here today and they're not. And that's why I think it's one of the penalizations of this kind of behavior towards the Parliament so that it's okay to make them more committed and show some respect for the representative body. That's why I think they need a clear copy of who they need to send. As far as the procedure is concerned, first it was the Government and then the Committee on European Integration, then the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You sent an e-mail, but don't you think it would be appropriate that as the body that carried that law to meet and to say here's look he decided not to know who Zoran Milanovic decided you couldn't be you anymore but would be the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Someone decided, we don't know who decided. So somewhere in the fog there was a body of some people who made that decision. So tell me who? I think it's correct for all of us sitting here to tell us why. Why is that so secretive? Do you want to hide something? I don't know, I don't understand you. I don't understand you because we could have passed this law in a very different atmosphere, and you're personally Mr. Mondekar's witness that HDZ has been extremely correct all this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41643	We're continuing the club debate. It's the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS. The honourable representative of Jadranka Kosor will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41644	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here in 12 days it will be two years old as we have experienced European institutions declaring that Croatia has completed the negotiations. So I had the honour and great pleasure to be in the company of then Mr. President of the Council, President of Parliament and President of the Commission, certainly Prime Minister of the Republic of Hungary then chaired when they spoke their praises to the Republic of Croatia in their elected words, announced that we have done a great job and that Croatia is certainly becoming 28 members of the European Union. As you all know, and several months after that, on December 9th, I had the honour to sign with the President of the Republic of Croatia again, to sign an accession contract. That's why I'm a little bit embarrassed to listen to this outwitting about who's more democratic and who's acting more European because, as you know, let me just say one personal sentence to my political destiny, nothing helped that I was the Prime Minister who led the negotiations, unblocked the negotiations, finished them, signed the accession contract. But let's let it go now, we have a big job ahead of us, so I think we need to focus today in the Parliament on what's ahead of us, and that's this important decision, this important law. And to me, personally, it doesn't mean much to me that today someone from the government or not from the government is nobody. I am interested, since there has been a lot of debate about how anyone respects the institutions of the Croatian Parliament and what we are doing here in the Croatian Parliament. I find the more interesting fact here, since the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution is stated as far as I know, as representatives of all committee members, most of the committee members who are representatives in this Croatian Parliament are ladies and gentlemen not present at this debate, do not participate in this debate, so that they do not sit as observers when we talk about this important issue. It's a dear friend of mine, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel, also a question we need to discuss. If the proposal is decided to be a Committee on the Constitution, it is authorised to propose, at least all members of that committee must attend here. And it would be good and important to discuss. The government will certainly implement our decisions as we make the law, what kind of law we make, so the government will have to behave. I absolutely agree that we had to make these decisions a long time ago. My opinion is, say, before the end of the session last year, somewhere in July last year, we were supposed to finish this job. There is certainly no obstacle in either the Constitution or our laws that our representatives decided today by the European institutions could pass the procedure, could be invited to a committee session, could be invited accordingly to a plenary session. Perhaps you could hear some good and useful advice in the discussion. And maybe that's what I'm sure would help them with a complicated job waiting for them in front of the European institutions. So there was no reason for our committee to actually function for a full year. But what's here is, this is right in front of us. What I absolutely insist on in the name of my club is that we finish this job by July 1st. So there's not as much as I know the business obstacles to second law reading being done as quickly as possible. And we can finish this job by July 1st. It would be bad for us to become a member of the European Union on July 1st and not have an institution in the Croatian Parliament, it is, in fact, now becoming an extremely important institution to monitor, I will also use the word, monitor it because it is originally listed in the Constitution when we changed it in 2010. So the legal framework, the constitutional framework for this law, or for the work of the Committee, is certainly Article 144. The Constitution. This is about surveillance, it's about surveillance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that our institutions must cooperate in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. No one is an island so neither the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian Government nor the Croatian courts. And everyone has to work in the best interests of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm going to encourage a debate here about something else that seems to me, and I've been listening very carefully so far to no one mentioning it, and it refers to this framework that gives us article 144. In fact, Article 144 on participation in the institutions of the European Union states: "The Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council are represented in accordance with their constitutional powers by the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia.". Therefore, in the Council, the European Council and the Government and the President of the Republic. So, we're here to discuss inviting the Prime Minister, which is absolutely fine, I think it's enough twice, but certainly government representatives whenever the board asks for it. However, and of course I'm not talking about the name, the person of the President of the Republic, I'm talking about the President of the Republic as an institution. Because in the past we certainly had, of course, constitutional powers as it says in the Constitution, we had cases in matters co-ordinated by the Government and the President of the State that there was, of course, no consent or full consent. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in this case that both the President of the State as an institution and the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government are cooperating on these matters that are important for the presentation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union? My opinion is yes. And that is all I mention to the proposing representative, therefore to the Committee on the Constitution in which all parties are in place to think about it so that we do not come up with any problems in the future which, of course, could then be reflected and have far-reaching consequences in presenting, or in making final decisions. I think that, ultimately, this law between the two readings would be good to discuss the Presidency and the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, in its permanent composition, including the president, or presidents and presidents of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament. I think it would be good and beneficial for the composition. We'll talk about the new Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure a little later. It is our proposal that representatives of all clubs working in the Croatian Parliament participate in this committee which is quite specific. I think it would contribute to what is clearly our goal to all of us, which is that it is indeed a committee that will also cooperate and oversee the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and our Croatian representatives in the institutions of the European Union. In particular, Article 8 where the proposal on documents of the European Union and the positions of the Republic of Croatia provides for a discussion and can reach a conclusion on the position of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which the Government operates in the institutions of the European Union. We propose that the word can be deleted, so that the Committee draws conclusions that are mandatory for the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union. And Article 11, therefore, to report to the Parliament on the meetings of the European Council. As I said, we believe it is enough for the Prime Minister to report to the Parliament twice a year on the meetings held by the European Council. I repeat this doubt as to whether the President of the State has any obligation to submit reports or to inform us of his views because the President is an institution but only one person has been directly elected. And on the other hand, there is also a question about this principle that the president can invite the Prime Minister to a plenary session, so on whose incentive we should define it in detail, one club, two clubs, 15 MPs, so we would have to come to that solution. And then finally, when the Prime Minister comes and stands before us and submits a report on what, then the debate opens, all the representatives who want or participate in the debate are involved. Our position would be good if all representatives in the Croatian Parliament could participate. And of course, if the conclusions are made afterwards, if the Government commits itself to what and if it then votes on those conclusions. So that is a few more open questions that we should consider by the time of the second reading. In conclusion, colleagues and colleagues, taking part in the process of proposing candidates of the Republic of Croatia for the institutions and bodies of the European Union, means Article 15. The Committee on the Report referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall adopt an opinion to the Government. The Government will take into account the opinion of the Committee from which it can be concluded, of course, if it takes into account, that it can then refuse to, or ignore, which confirms that this is also the last sentence, which it says if the Government does not accept the opinion of the Committee on the matter by reason of the written notice of the Committee. What good is it that the government informs the board in writing not to accept anything? So there's no use in that. I propose that this last paragraph be deleted and that the Government must, of course, respect the decisions, or conclusions of the Committee. If this is really and ultimately arranged, then the work of this committee will have full meaning and indeed the committee will have representatives elected in the Croatian Assembly and many experts will help our participation in the work of the institutions and our overall activities as the 28th members whose language becomes the 24th official language, which I am particularly proud of, have full and real meaning, and the Parliament will get the right place of its own, so the right representative body and I believe that this can ultimately restore the reputation of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41645	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41646	Dear colleagues, here you are, and I would say the essence of this law, which if we look at what is written in this new proposal of the Rules of Procedure, then we see that the practical authority of the entire Parliament is being taken over by the Committee on European Affairs. Thus, the text of the law thus written means that there is no debate in the Parliament, but that debate can be held on the Committee on European Affairs, but according to the new Rules of Procedure, there is no reporting to the Prime Minister on this type of policy or business. There is only in this new proposal of the Rules of Procedure an annual report, on which it is not possible to give a replica, increased minutes for this speech and even for the final address and the entire Rules of Procedure were actually made for the Government, not the Parliament. And it should be noted here that first of all, the Government comes from the Parliament, that the Croatian Parliament appoints the Government, not the Government of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian MPs. On the other hand, I think it may be a more important question at this point than the speed of adoption of this law, written like this, when the Committee on European Affairs is going to do it anyway. First of all, the possibilities for Croatia in the EU at all are whether they are just the salaries of the euro advocates, Commissioners in the European Commission, or is it the withdrawal of funds from EU funds where we are practically or incompetent or blocked, or as negotiated, we can raise the practical value of Croatian membership in the EU funds, and I am afraid we will not be able to withdraw that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41647	Thank you very much. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41648	I agree with my colleague Vinkovic. We must find a way, we must somehow fight that when Croatia becomes a member of the EU here in a few hours, I would say no more days, but we can count in hours, so that the Croatian Parliament is not only a mere observer of what is happening but that it really has a role that belongs to it and that we have finally changed the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 and entered here, and most of us would not have been able to change the Constitution for it and voted. And the other goal, or other gain that we can expect from all of this, is that we are opening discussions here on issues concerning us as 28 members, and that citizens are better and better informed differently, that citizens also know whether there are different opinions, recommendations, so on our proposals and our contributions as 28 members. This is one of the best stages from which different opinions and citizens can be heard continuously, in fact with the right to regret that they do not have enough information waiting for us on July 1st at 00.1 so they can be simply more informed, better informed and finally through us, who are elected as their representatives in this House, can propose for those decisions that will be made in the future related and particularly sensitive groups in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41649	Another replica is respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41650	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Vice President of the Parliament, dear Mrs. Kosor. I agree with you when you spoke about the need to include both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament in this important, key issue for Croatia in a completely different way. And here's also because it's not a replica from the same club, and it comes from me as a representative, I personally think that some key moments in Croatian history are being forgotten in politics, and so is that you, as prime minister then at the head of the Croatian government, are signing the agreement, but by throwing all the political work into this particular topic, which is the conclusion of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, you may have personally done less good, because you haven't been involved in politics within the party and calling internal elections when you were able to do so when former Prime Minister Sanader went away, but you did a lot for Croatia because you signed an agreement and led the government that introduced Croatia into the EU. And I think that this government that currently won the elections should make at least a minimum for you, and that it has put you on the organisational committee to celebrate Croatia's entry into the EU here in the Republic of Croatia. It would certainly be fair, and I believe and personally hope that one day as a European Parliamentarian, as a Parliamentarian, will give your contribution to Croatia, you deserve whatever anyone says, whatever anyone thinks, whoever laughs at you. I think it's what I think today from this HDSSB representative club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41651	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41652	Thank you very much, dear colleague Salapic, thank you very much for your visit and some of your memories. It doesn't matter if someone is laughing or smiling, it's important that Croatia enters the EU, it's important that this job is done. And it is important, of course, sometimes to mention that there were less or more brave, less or more determined in this process and those who were willing to bear the burden and those who did not. The fact is that the opportunities were difficult, that we were negotiating under extremely difficult conditions with the burden of war, the imposed war, that there was no too much interest in the EU, that everyone was burdened with their concerns, the crisis and that there was an additional effort to make, and of course taking on personal responsibility since I also signed the arbitration agreement. We know that there have been some here who have not voted for it, that there have been great shouts from the opposition, from some circles, and of course some church circles, etc. which all here is somehow closed by Pope Benedict XVI, who praised the Croatian government and the Slovenian government and us personally as prime ministers who have solved the difficult problem. So there were ups and downs. Certainly spring of 2011, if we all remember, and we remember it wasn't long ago, so many in my former party thought we wouldn't finish the negotiations. There were those who were pushing for the election at the time, there was anxiety. The European Commission has received messages that there may be no hope that by the end of June, but we may not be finished by the end of the year. We're done, it's our joint success of all those involved. And here, I use this replica to thank everyone once again, of course, first of all the Croatian defenders who are the most responsible because without free Croatia there would be no Croatia in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41653	Thank you very much. It's the club's turn, please, my colleague Vinkovic. Don't throw it out. ... Well, just this, just that. [[You can't hear him.]] You're in the Parliament, you're in the Parliament. It's your club representative Josip Salapic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41654	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The key and important question today is in front of us, so it would be nice to see it since we said this is one of the historical laws that the Croatian Parliament needs to pass. That there are more MPs in the assembly, that more, more and more open and constructively debate this important issue for the Republic of Croatia. Here are three weeks before our country's entry after years of waiting, long negotiations, and even from the beginning when this government, headed by the late Ivica Racan, began the Action Plan for Croatia's entry into the EU, the European Community then to the last government, led by Mrs Kosor, who completed the negotiations. Today we heard a throw ball from the right to the left, from the left to the right who was supposed to be there, who wrote this, who said what, who didn't say who was sitting from the government, who wasn't sitting. I think the most important question is what is this law in its quality for Croatian citizens because the most Croatian citizens and citizens expect from Croatia's entry into the EU is whether the final accession of 1,07th of July in our country will improve their lives. Our citizens should benefit from the laws we adopt, and above all from this law and from Croatia's entry into the EU. If this is not the case, if there are no new jobs, if there is no financial assistance from the Republic of Croatia, investment, understanding of the left and right sides and respecting the views of the opposition, then neither this government nor our membership in the EU nor Croatia's future as the 28th member of the EU is very nice if we here in the Croatian Parliament will not understand ourselves, first of all, in the interest of Croatian citizens. So it absolutely doesn't matter who came, who didn't come. Whoever thought it was supposed to be would be, who was supposed to come, and this is who wrote this law regardless of whether it was the promoter in enough time exposed here to us agents or Mr. Mondekar who might have because in those jobs he was in deeper and more professional on behalf of the SDP club exhibited. It is certainly one thing that this is a law that is important, and it depends primarily on these first steps of our entry into the EU on how the Croatian Parliament, MPs in the Croatian Parliament and our Government are about to begin. All that we have negotiated, all that we have signed, all that we have done in political negotiations is do good for Croatia only now we will see if we have done well whether Croatia and Croatian citizens live better than that, or if we have only flossules to beat empty straw and said that we will be better in the EU. I firmly and our club believes we voted for Croatia's EU accession treaty to do so. And that this will be because of all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and because of what full membership as one young, new member and country is in a major and deep financial crisis, which, by entering Croatia into the EU, requires a kind of salvation, a way out of the situation in which it is found, and it is certainly not nice and it is not good for us that we are so weakened first and foremost financially entering the EU. Unfortunately, this is the situation, and we should all try to do better for Croatia. The Croatian Parliament I am sure on behalf of our club, we think and share that opinion, that it is not good to lose in any form of dignity, i.e. its role in the Croatian state because the Croatian government, we are a parliamentary country, came from the Croatian Parliament and the prime minister and ministers from the Croatian Government, and this portfolio of European affairs and European integrations have been entrusted to us by representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And that's something that according to this bill of law, this is so-called. The technical law, but historically, is important because it will in future raise a number of issues when it comes to government and parliament in the context of Croatia's entry into the EU. That is why, in our view, the better name of this law would be that of the Law on the Control and Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, because it is really about cooperation, but it is also about supervision, so it is also about the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty in our legal system. And this law is in the context of this part of supervision and cooperation but in the context of the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty, which is therefore one of the key components of this bill. The law is in the first reading, and we do until the second reading, so the timing that is as it is we can't go down on our heads to change it because it is, but I'm sure by 1.07, we'll do it to get to the final text of the law that will be primarily functional because if the law doesn't have efficiency and functionality we haven't done anything. We propose that, therefore, in some parts of this law, it may improve the nomotechnical law, to be more understandable, that, in the context of our roles as representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament as a whole and committee, all parliamentary committees, here, in particular, the Committee on European Affairs, which, in a crucial case and a large number of tasks, will be given a completely new role. The role of the Croatian Parliament is also changed when it comes to European affairs, but the role of the Committee on European Affairs is completely changed, which will take over the work of the Croatian Parliament in this part of the work. So we propose that we really need to strengthen the Committee on European Affairs with a number of committee members, with experts in the field of European law who will make their own contribution in the quality of the work of this committee, because it is not only a consideration of the conclusions and the adoption of work programmes and discussions on European directives, proposals, conclusions and guidelines, but it is one really big job important, most important at this time for Croatia and should give room for expansion of committees and a number of experts who will better, not belittled by anyone we all come from different professions in politics and come to the Assembly on the basis of therefore direct choices based on the decision and will of voters, we all understand some areas less. Well I can't understand myself in medicine, but I can understand myself right. So, if this is a key committee, it needs to be strengthened with people who are dealing with European law and who will understand European affairs and who will best give and help the Committee on European Affairs in their advice and work which is best for the Republic of Croatia at the moment. We do not enter like some of the other members who have entered the EU so far, I think our country has completely changed every future entry of our neighbours into the EU environment. We have been through one of the most difficult negotiating routes, one of the most demanding jobs of all countries so far because for years we have been tortured and for years we have had the supervision and monitoring of European experts and the European Commission and European policy on every segment of our society of life in Croatia, and even those over whom the EU really had something to say and what to do. but we believe and hope so because of the interest of our people that we have taken all the initiatives and that we have made our country modern and European, and that I repeat this again, we will benefit not only by the name of 28 EU members but rather by those who are in colleges today, who are studying and finishing studies and who do not know where they will find jobs and what they will do in Croatia, not by running from our country to Canada and similar countries, but by staying in Croatia for a few weeks tomorrow in European Croatia and that all these former governments and politicians and policies in Croatia have been doing their best interests, the contribution above all to the people of Croatia. Then we did the best and then we really did a job that will remember maybe the present, history can't do it, the present can't appreciate some of our moves. The economic situation is so bad that it cannot be understood this important moment for Croatia to join the EU, but I am sure that the future will be able to assess both the role and this calls for the Parliament and the past government and all of those future governments that will make in the EU the best for Croatia. We therefore propose to strengthen experts in this part of the Committee on European Affairs. Also in Article 3 where it is discussed the powers of the Parliament in the performance of European affairs in this section, where it is written to consider EU documents, we propose that it does not say that they can be concluded but rather states that it draws conclusions that bind the Government, so here we propose to strengthen the Committee on European Affairs in this part. Also in Article 3 where the Council's powers are discussed in the performance of European affairs in this section, where it is written to consider EU documents, we propose that it does not say this so that they can be concluded but rather that it is said to draw conclusions that bind the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the conclusions that will be drawn by the Croatian Parliament through the Committee on European Affairs must be the conclusions which will oblige the representatives of our Government and those who will represent Croatia's interests in such a way as to oblige our position as the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, that they will be bound by the conclusions and views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will be presented in the EU institutions. It is important that we be not only the mere passersby and overseers in what is happening but that the Assembly is indeed the largest legislative body, as the national parliament plays a key role in this part when it comes to the supervision of the work of the government's representatives in the EU institutions. We also agree that this article 8 defines who is who on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given that this is a whole new area and a whole new political problem and challenges that we will face, who will report it to the Croatian Parliament, whether the person or function of the rapporteur will be identified or otherwise called. It is important to be a person who is competent, professional and who will in the best and most qualitative way to understand and be able to report to the Croatian Parliament on what the representatives of the Government and the Government of the European Commission are doing and should certainly be maintained when it comes to national interests in the history of the EU, and those who follow the path of the European Community now the EU and issues of supranationality of the EU and subsidiarity whether national parliaments and national governments, at some points outside the framework and context and membership in the EU, are experiencing potential situations when this principle of subsidiarity and the principle of supranationality of the EU arises at some point. We have in this context and this Lisbon Treaty have completely changed and given some new instruments to national parliaments that they can have control over possible audits and in discussions in their national parliaments where they can influence certain directives and legislative proposals in a different way than the Member States could have done so far. And this is the question that the Croatian public should know that the national parliament of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government and the Croatian national dignitity in general will not be and is not threatened by the entry into the EU but there are, in fact, mechanisms and instruments and legal assumptions and tools that will enable the control and supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the work of the Croatian Government in the EU institutions and also over our position as countries as new EU members in the future in the times ahead. I am sure that it is not honey and milk, that it will not now fall flowers and grow grass faster than our entry into the EU in Croatia, but it is a new challenge one key moment, a new route for Croatia a new time that I am sure will need to take advantage of. Each government and this government and future government of the Republic of Croatia and all in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of our people who have suffered so far from various political failures. We believe that this Croatia's entry into the Union is not a failure but the future of the Republic of Croatia because of all of those and because of our children and all of those who will follow what this Assembly of the Croatian Parliament has done for Croatia at a historic moment. The HDSB Club supports this bill in its first reading with these arguments, which we have made on Article 5 and 8, which should be further defined in Article 10, 11 of these reports by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia twice a year if it is possible to make it more frequent. Not only is this important political but it is one respect for the Croatian Parliament because we are representatives who have chosen this prime minister and this government, so this mutual respect will surely preserve the reputation and dignity of the Croatian Parliament when here is our country in a week's time to become a member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41655	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41656	I support this debate, of course, but I would just like to add that at this very moment, the most important and important work of our 12 euro-parliamentaries who go to the European Parliament and I hope that they will be there together, not wanting to see the Croatian Parliament painted in the European Parliament, but simply working together for the interests of Croatia and lobbying and among the left, right, centre and all important political options in the European Parliament. However, this law really needs to be done because this law practically puts the function of the Croatian Parliament in one relationship that is being called there in the 1990s and I would not, in the early 1990s, and I would not like for parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament to become what we called those Euro-observers of ice creamers so that we simply watch what is happening in the European Union, what the Government does, what European Parliamentarians do, our Croatian parliament, are doing, but simply that this Parliament has an active function and in the adoption of a Croatian political stance in the European Parliament. Therefore, I agree that some things should be done only by this Committee on European Affairs. But it should then be drawn up from, practically, you mentioned experts on European issues, but I would suggest that all political parties, political options here in the Croatian Parliament enter there anyway, in order to achieve a consensus towards Europe in a certain way. But in any case for the greater role of the Croatian Parliament and for the practical oversight of the work of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41657	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41658	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Vinkovic, our European representatives will probably have to operate by clubs, by political groups in the European Parliament, and now I don't know how much they will all be able to perform there together in these political positions. And whether all of them can perform together in Croatia, so perhaps this Committee on European Affairs, as it already consists of different political parties, is now the ratio, therefore the opposition, the ruling, external members, we have proposed on behalf of the club and experts. It would not be bad if they were invited in Croatia by our representatives in the European Parliament and they could contribute to the quality of the work of the European Affairs Committee if it is possible to connect it into one. And they should certainly agree with you to represent all together the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. But it will be a time ahead of us and we will see how one of the MPs will be appointed. And we saw that some who were the absolute opponents of Croatia's entry into the European Union received the most votes for the European Parliament. So that's one image that politics is as strange as it is, but we'll see if it's in a European context exactly like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41659	Thank you very much. Another replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm using this replica to look at what you might have talked about the most, and that's the precision of this law that has to be worked out to the end, so it doesn't leave a single legal void. So that he may not be subject to this law, that he may not be subject to further interpretations, where we will have great problems again. So, fully and finally clarify when the Prime Minister comes, for example, in that case, whether a debate is possible, who can discuss everything, etc. That is where we need to reach now at this stage until the second reading as much consent as possible. And of course about the opinion of conclusions, whatever you call it. And what's said at the plenary session but certainly at the Committee's session. So whether it's binding on the government or not. Because otherwise, we're going to have, for example, a committee that is extremely important, which is actually going to be an ordinary figure, dolls at the end, etc., etc. And what, of course, is not in line with the fundamental idea of the establishment of that committee at all, and I am ultimately constantly calling for the changes to the 2010 Constitution that we all agreed on, about our representatives in the European Parliament who I congratulate once again and I want a lot of success, maybe it is true what you said, and here we have those who strongly oppose Croatia's entry, but today they say that Croatia is not ready for the European Union. Which is personally unacceptable to me because I think we are ready and that the Commission and the Council and Parliament and the European Parliament and all 27 Member States have said that Croatia is ready for the European Union and some of our representatives still think it is not. But let's let it go, it's a matter of choice, and that's how the voters decided, so that's the will to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41661	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41662	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, you have noticed this well, and I think everyone who has debated today that it is crucial and important that the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament must be binding on the Croatian Government. Because we, according to this text of the law, do not see the proposal as to what capacity and professional and administrative in the Government will work in this field of European affairs. Likewise, we cannot discuss here in the Assembly any issues to be raised before the institutions of the European Union but in some key issues, therefore, we should certainly include this plenary session in a certain way. Not only the Committee on European Affairs, because if a debate on key issues is not opened, then we have done nothing. Then we have one technical law that gives too much authority to the Committee on European Affairs, which is not sufficiently capacitated. Because the policy composition is such that it can be competent in one part of the experts in the field of European law. Surely, we are all aware that not all members of that committee can be. Then, that competition for members, outside board members, is also asked how independent he really is in terms of politics. So are these really people who came as experts or political club proposals and so on? That is why it needs to be strengthened even more professionally, so that people pay for the work they do because it is indeed an important job that depends primarily on Croatia's fate in the institutions of the European Union. Because this is our important and big start. But if we are not administratively, professionally prepared, if we do not have a good enough legal mechanism to control and monitor it as the Croatian Parliament, then we will meet at the beginning of our membership in a big problem. And I agree with you that we are fully prepared and that this is the only way out for Croatia's future. Alone in this environment in inter-neighbor relations, on economic occasions and financial Croatia could do nothing by itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41663	Third replica, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try to replicate now, however, according to the definition of Croatian lexicon if you agree and if it does not stand a word of disagreement but we will try to make a comment or note or comment on the presentation of colleagues Salapić. In most cases, I can agree with what you said. It doesn't seem to me that it doesn't matter whether he was a representative of the government today or not, or whether we could have this law, and in particular, he would have stressed this earlier because he would have avoided some of the situations that just happened. Here, 10 minutes ago at the plenary session of the European Parliament, the Croatian candidate was rejected, so Mates was rejected by 396 votes against, 231 for and 5 abstentions. And that we had this law before and it was not a matter of bickering between clubs, but of having this law before, that we had made better use of this period of preparation for membership we could have avoided this situation and perhaps even after that negative statement by the parent committee in the European Parliament, the government could have withdrawn this candidacy and avoided this additional defamation that took place 10 minutes ago when at the plenary session of the European Parliament the Croatian candidate for the Court of Auditors was rejected. It's a good thing that the candidate for Commissioner Neven Mimica passed, but it's a bad message that here's the first candidate for the Court of Auditors in this way twice rejected by the parent board, then it's still insisted and now you see here at the plenary session. And that is why I think that debates like this are still needed not for bickering, but in order to send a clear message that the Government must be much more responsible for protecting Croatian interests in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41665	The last line is delivered by the esteemed representative Miroslav... Excuse me, Professor Tudjman. Replica response, Representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41666	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Stier, I did not say that I was against the debate but if a representative of the Government, if this is a crucial moment, one of the more important laws, although it is small and 17 articles did not assess whether it was the Minister of European and Foreign Affairs to be there, it was more important for me that this law would be useful for the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And about the government and why their representatives aren't here, it's the best way to talk about how the government works, and it's not nice that we have to wonder whether or not we should be a representative of the government here, it's necessary and crucial to be, but unfortunately it's not. And around this rejected candidacy, it primarily speaks of our willingness and expertise and administrative, and of those in the Government who propose such candidates, but also of those who accept such candidacys, and even of the European Parliament's candidacy. Because if someone comes to the European Parliament to protect the face and appearance of the Republic of Croatia, then it is necessary to know at least the minimum European law, the way the European Parliament works, to understand and speak English or some of the foreign languages, even though our language will become a full-fledged official language of the European Union. It should be someone who will fully understand their mission there. There have been talks about the salaries of European parliamentarians, which is not important at all, it is important what they will do for Croatia. I agree with you, I wasn't against that I don't think it should be a representative of the government here, but it doesn't matter, it's important that this law gives interest, a contribution to our citizens. And about the government and about the expertise and what it's all about, which isn't what it's going to be, it's going to be a citizen's assessment in the next election. We can only wish all the good things to Croatia, that this entry into the European Union and this legislative proposal will benefit our representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that it is not just a lame letter on paper but a professional and a firm mechanism so that we can control and monitor, that we just prevent such situations as this appointment today which has not passed in the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41667	I now give my word to Representative Miroslav Tudjman to present the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, I agree with your debate and with the urgency that this law should not only be a law on co-operation but also on government supervision and therefore, with the fundamental thesis that Parliament should play a key role. However, objectively, it will happen that a good part of the Parliament's affairs will take over as a member of the European Union, so it will come from the European Parliament and because of the simple time constraints and these jobs, it can happen that this Committee on European Affairs simply sums up the role of all other committees in the Assembly, the parliamentary committees, and thus de facto Parliament is increasingly losing its parliamentary role, i.e. the role it has now. Therefore, in my opinion in this regard, and therefore it is not self-sufficient in my view to extend this committee with additional members as proposed by Mr Jandrokovic on behalf of the HDZ and what you suggest. My opinion is that in this Article 8 a new item should be added that this Committee on European Affairs cannot deliver views without the opinion of the parent committees on certain issues. And then we have an additional problem because, theoretically and practically, we can imagine that it will be different opinions on the positions, the parent board, the Committee on European Affairs and the Government, and then we should install an item to put in these cases conflicting opinions whenever possible to attend a plenary session and discuss it. In that respect, this Article 8 should be extended with these views.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41669	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41670	Thank you, Vice President, Reverend Tudjman. I fully support what you said. In this part of it, sometimes the debate, so it spreads a little bit, so it's not saying enough. But in this Committee on European Affairs there will be problems because theory is one thing, and practice is quite another, and in particular we have not realized at all how it will all work when those numerous legislative proposals that may be at some point and much greater than what we get daily on benches as parliamentary advocates. It's going to be a huge job, and I accept that initiative of yours, and I think it's very good. At no time can we question the functioning of the Croatian Parliament. It should be said that any parliamentary committee will lose importance in this context of our country's EU entry because this Committee on European Affairs is also important. That is why we have proposed an increase in the number of experts and a different function of the committee. But perhaps in a certain time that will not be so long we will have to come up with and perhaps another constituency committee or perhaps another institution in the Republic of Croatia that will help the Government and the Parliament in this part of European affairs, because we are facing a major challenge and we cannot know for sure how this will work at this time. But I also support what you said. I think it is a contribution to the quality of this legislative proposal, but also a contribution to the quality of the Parliament in the future time ahead and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41671	We've finished discussing the clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. Three colleagues signed up. The first of them is Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the thing, Professor. Tudjman mentioned indeed a significant part of Croatian legislation earlier will be based on decisions taken in Brussels and Strasbourg as of 1 July. According to some estimates of the old members, some say even up to 80% of national legislation is based on European legislation. We have, of course, those regulations that are directly applicable in domestic legislation, as well as the directives that then require a decision, the legal procedure in the Croatian Parliament. However, in one case and another, this legislative initiative was launched in Brussels, in Strasbourg, where the Croatian Parliament, as already said, has no direct representatives, i.e. as regards the European parliamentarians, are elected directly by Croatian citizens, and the Croatian Parliament can influence this process at the very beginning right through the government control system, because it is the representatives of the Government who will represent the Council or in the case of the Prime Minister on the European Council the official positions of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why it is extremely important that this law, which, unfortunately, may not even be recognised to a sufficient extent, is also seen from this situation where we do not have a representative of the Government in the debate. The key moments and objectives of the law should therefore be to ensure both democracy and transparency, one responsible act by the government in representing Croatia's positions in the EU. In fact, Croatian citizens already have one perception that Croatian decisions are being made outside the Croatian Parliament far from the public's eyes and that only the ruling majority of them are mechanically confirming that. However, if EU membership is taken as an alibi, as an excuse to further marginalise the Croatian Parliament, then indeed Croatian citizens will be left in total darkness. And it is therefore extremely important to amend some of the provisions in this law in the final version, in particular in Article 11. Now that they stand, they are unsustainable and that is why it has just come from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community, the proposal that the Prime Minister must report before each European Council on the positions to be represented in Brussels, not just after they are held. It is good that the promoter in principle indicated the willingness to go in that direction, but of course we will have to see what this exact formulation will be. What has been mentioned here many times is the concern and criticism that the ruling coalition held in the drawer for a year and a half of this law and that we now have to consider it just 19 days before joining the EU. It's an irresponsible way of acting as a ruling coalition. And we can really ask ourselves a question if for a law that has only 17 articles was to wait a year and a half, if that's how the Kukuriku coalition works how with such a government and such a ruling coalition we'll be able to function after 1 July when we're already full members of the EU where we'll be sought if not on a weekly basis, perhaps on a daily basis. In this law, we do not even have that part clearly defined how the Government will be making those positions that will be the main place for the final decision on the Executive Authority, whether the focus will still be in the part that has been led so far by the Vice-President of Mimica or will be in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, as this coordination will look. I think the Parliament should certainly know and keep an eye on this law and also arrange it with this law. Both before and in replicas, we mentioned several times that it was a non-transparent way of passing this law, from having had assurances by the government's representatives that they were working on it, that it would be almost until the end of 2012 and in early 2013, so it transferred to one committee, to another committee. Finally, such an untransparent way unfortunately led to the fact that we now have at first reading a text that unfortunately does not have those formulas that would allow us to support it right now and in the first reading. And it's a shame that it didn't go the other way, that in the first reading we already have such remarks included in the text of the law, in the text of the bill because it was time for that, but unfortunately it wasn't done. I particularly point out this because if we were successful, and we were in the conclusion of the negotiations it was also because of the commitment of the then government, but it must also be stressed because of the national consensus of relevant political and social factors in Croatia. The consensus was also institutionalised in the Parliament right through the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations led by the opposition leaders of then, by Ivica Racan, later Vesna Pusic, but after the arrival of the Kukurik coalition to power unfortunately these mechanisms that formed the national consensus were abolished. Of course, the National Committee could no longer function when the negotiations were over, but we were constantly convinced that through this law that was to come in time and not, new mechanisms would be created. The fact is that this has not happened, it has been a year and a half where the government's work on European issues has simply been left to the self-will of the executive authority without any real, effective control or control of the parliament or parliamentary committees. A number of other issues that may not have been strictly related to the acquis but have been adopted in the context of our accession negotiations, such as: was the Law on HRT which was adopted by the same consensus during the previous Government. When she came to Kukuriku, the government unfortunately ran over that consensus and changed it by its own free will. Unfortunately, the situation in HRT is not satisfactory at all today. We have, of course, the last ecldent example when it went through the breaking of the consensus when in this House almost all the clubs agreed that it was not good to call the European elections on April 14th because we will have a very low turnout and send a very bad message to our partners and allies in Europe, and yet on the side of both the government and the institution of the president is decided to go to that date. And it happened exactly what we here from the opposition but even by some colleagues from the ruling coalition warned. So, it is dangerous to go through this by breaking the national consensus where it is needed, and on these European issues I believe that it is indeed and that it is possible. And that's why, and in all our criticisms and according to this bill, we went not only for criticism but we also offered concrete solutions. Like, for example, article 11, which is a colleague of Jandrokovic's on behalf of the club and read again. And it is therefore good if we have already lost a year and a half to at least now, although there are only 19 days left until we join the EU, to try to achieve this situation so that the final version of the law will satisfy these proposals, it will also include these proposals that come from the opposition lines so that the HDZ club can then also support the final draft of the law from our ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41673	We have a single replica reported. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with what Mr Stier was talking about, so here I am and I am using this opportunity, these are now the last days before and his and the departure of all of our other colleagues who have been elected to the European Parliament, congratulate and wish a lot of success. There may have been little talk about it, but the role of the MEPs and Croatians is primarily to represent and promote European values in the European Parliament, and I am sure that this will be the case, of course, for Croatian interests there is no doubt. It is true that after the National Committee was shut down, the Croatian Parliament, there was a change of power but the Croatian Parliament had no right to monitor everything that was happening in our steps that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to carry out first and foremost in order for all 27 Member States to ratify the contract. What exactly am I talking about? I would like to remind myself of the problem which he unexpectedly escalated, it was the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka, and I believe that Parliament, that the Parliament, that we had some opportunity to call here as we did, as my colleague Stier certainly remembers well, went to a large session of the National Committee to which Mrs Pusic invited us, so I as Prime Minister and other colleagues, and there were all the leaders of the parliamentary parties where we discussed the remaining affairs. So, if the Croatian Parliament had a committee that we could definitely set up last year, we would certainly make it easier for the situation in which we were brought, which is why we have so much to say until the last moments, to see what will happen with ratification in the Republic of Slovenia. That's another contribution to this debate that we should have done this job before. But what is necessary now, and I end it, is important and here I ask the President of the Constitution Committee to inform us, in the final word, of those suggestions that we go to the second reading and certainly declare this law by July 1st. It would be bad, at least it would be unserious if we were to become a member of the EU without the Law on Co-operation or Surveillance between the Government and the Croatian Parliament as a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41675	The replica matches the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41676	Yes, thank you for your congratulations. I am sorry that the other elected MEPs are not here today, especially those who are today in the European Parliament, but indeed because of the important event of voting at the plenary session in Strasbourg on Croatian candidates, they had to be there even though it would be safer for this debate to be more favourable and meaningful that they were still here in the Croatian Parliament today that the agenda could be determined earlier and brought into line with these obligations. As for the case you cited for the Ljubljanska banka, it has indeed proved that it was a mistake to go with the waiting tactics, that this issue will in itself be resolved. We have repeatedly urged the prime minister to engage in resolving the issue. The foreign ministry could have given one if you wanted a professional level but eventually it had to be resolved at the highest political level. In the end, it came again five to twelve too late and we got one compromise that we got. Therefore, there are many reasons why this monitoring of parliamentary supervision, which is in the extreme line and the possibility that Croatian citizens can also monitor what the government does in European affairs to be transparent and that it can then and thus gain the necessary quality in representing Croatian interests in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41677	We're continuing an individual debate. It's the Honorable Agent Davorin Mlakar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A lot has already been said, of course we've taken part in the topic. Probably the speakers who have already spoken have already covered up a good part of what we wanted to say at the end, but it's simply a matter that deserves our attention, so I'm going to try to sum it up as soon as possible. We think of many things differently, it is neither strange nor worrying, but it seems to me that in relation to the ruling coalition, we think differently about the importance and importance of this law that is before us today. I cannot speak on behalf of all but, at least on my own behalf, I can say that it seems to me that this is one of the most important laws passed by the Croatian Parliament, given that it has both influence or reflections from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, has a question of resolving the relationship between the Government and Parliament and incurring one and the other body, and in particular because of the fact that part of sovereignty is transferred to the EU, I think the law is of paramount importance. I am therefore particularly surprised that our public is not particularly interested in this topic and that this topic is relatively poorly followed by the media. I'm not going to go into the reasons why it is, but I believe that we've already exhausted the public in this style of work, and unfortunately, it seems to me that he's becoming immaterial to this government. I'd say this is an extremely unserious way of bringing in such an important document. I would also say that he is doing more seriously the home counsel of a residential building in preparation for what his duties are. And that is why it is amazing for me and I will repeat that 18 days before EU entry we have the Law on the relationship between Parliament and the Government and in the first reading. 18 days until we enter the EU for the first time, we are discussing a law that means another reading has to take place and we will be happy and, of course, we will use the worst possible way for the current Rules of Procedure in order to do two readings of this law at all and bring it a day or two before joining the EU. And regardless of what the parliamentary majority allows you and this way of working, I believe that it absolutely does not suit anyone and that this is, in addition to what they have already said in some way, a demeaning role of Parliament, this is in the extreme line of the extremely unserious work of the government, an extremely unserious debate on such important issues, two weeks before joining full membership. But aside from that principled remark that surprises me that it didn't disgust all those who are concerned with this law, I'd be talking about a few things that may not have been before, but colleagues in their performances have already mentioned. It is a question of the name of a law that is not only a formal legal issue, but a fundamental question is to determine exactly what this law covers. We heard from some statements that cooperation is something based on the Croatian Constitution. Therefore, I will, in addition to the thesis in which I am in favour of co-operation, also quote Article 144, under Parliament's supervision over the executive power. The constitution that we have changed in 2010 precisely because of EU accession. And he said in paragraph 4, "The Croatian Parliament's supervision of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the EU institutions is regulated by law"; therefore, those arguments from the beginning of the debate that co-operation is something based on the Croatian Constitution remains questionable to me because in this particular issue, the Constitution speaks of this concrete solution as I read Article 4 of Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I will therefore advocate in this debate that instead of calling this law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs it is called the law and as some compromise solution on supervision and cooperation. And secondly, what it says in Article 1 of this Law is the subject of the law of cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the Government in European affairs, I will propose that by leading the Syntagma to enter into other people's mistakes and the fools on their own, that perhaps when we call on comparative legislation we suggest what some European Union member states have prescribed differently and it seems more precise and more accurate than what is proposed in our law. In fact, these countries are not talking about jobs, European affairs, but are talking about the European Union's jobs. And even without over-indulgence in logic or terminology and without saying some deep understanding of the cooperation and obligations of membership in the European Union, I believe that many will be an acceptable solution that what is Croatia's cooperation with the European Union tomorrow is the affairs of the European Union and that this is more precisely a particular part of it than is proposed in our law and that it concerns European affairs. I think it is unnecessary to note that European affairs are a broader concept and that they can imply something quite different from what Croatia is waiting for in terms of membership in the European Union. Speaking of comparative legislation, this is how it was settled in Germany, Sweden, and Austria, for example, that I do not go any further, and I can also mention the Czech Republic. And I don't see why the proposer resists the proposal, regardless of which lines it came from, that it may be more precise and precise to determine and reach this law. And which are hiding in this definition of danger tomorrow in the work of Parliament and the Government I leave you with your imagination because I fear that the relationship between Parliament and the Government will be further complicated if such interpretation of the law as it is now going to be served by the Government when it will be appropriate for it to resolve certain matters without adequate supervision or obligations of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm going to repeat another request. The proposal would be to call the law on the supervision and cooperation of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, on the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on cooperation in the affairs of the European Union. And that, accordingly, Article 1 and, further in the text, this law applies to the affairs of the European Union. I call on myself, I will repeat here and in practice other European countries that have dealt with this issue in the same way. And lastly, it seems to me that we would benefit because we do not know how this law will all be possible to reflect on the practice, that perhaps, as Germany has done in its legislation and it is neither ravingly nor large, but it is all prescribed in 16 points to defacto the affairs of the European Union which oversee the national parliament over the government and in which Parliament and government work in a special way. If we have not already had time, quality debates, or thoughts of quality enough to already regulate our law in this way, here is the suggestion that by the second reading, the Proposer accept or at least consider in the good faith of this remark so that we can sort out the text of this law in this way. I believe it will be of use to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41679	Thank you. Replica has a colleague named Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41680	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My fellow Mlakar, I really don't understand why with this law so revolutionaryly suggested that he had to cook in the kitchen of this government for so long. Because this is when we look at the experiences of other members of the European Union one technical law. A technical law that should define the relationship between the Parliament and the Government but with the ultimate goal of being as effective as possible and as useful to Croatian citizens. However, a colleague, Mlakar, may this remind you that someone may have wanted to determine on the trail of famous counting that and according to the number of articles of a law, jurisdiction is transferred to the Assembly. It smells like that to me. Because probably if it hadn't been for such brilliant ideas, we'd probably have passed this law months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41681	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41682	Dear colleague Shuker, if I understand the adjudication well and it concerns yesterday's debates in this same House, I see another link. I can see that this law, too, is not going to say "stupidly" because such a text is relatively good and can be fixed, but the fact that it comes 20 days before our membership in the European Union is something that the media had to pay particular attention to. And here I see a link to yesterday's debate and the fact that by counting the words that we will further describe but also by hiring the Tax Administration, we will get one system that neither those who proposed it nor those who proposed it, let alone our colleagues in the European Union, that we will count the words of newspaper articles, and on that basis determine tax rates. I think it is quite appropriate to note that such a way of resolving the issues of individual publishers in our regulations is so long for these same media to spare comments or serious debates by the ruling coalition because of the fact that it is such a sleek effort to do its job and that what we have been doing for almost two years is all at the last minute and we are still amazed at the criticism, the legitimate criticisms that we receive from opposing ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41683	We're continuing the debate. A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41684	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I am not so thrilled with the entry into the European Union that as some colleagues and colleagues I would count hours to 1.7 because I believe that entering the European Union is not a goal but a means for Croatian citizens to be better, for Croatian citizens to live better, and how Croatian citizens will live in the European Union will see it after 1.7, in a year, in a few years, whether this means justifying that goal, and now the goal is for many to join the European Union. But I stress, I raised my hand to join the European Union. I'm also not as excited as I am, it should be pointed out, we politicians like to exaggerate often to call this a law of 17 or 18 articles by historical law. It is a significant, important law, however, as it is written I do not think it is significant and important. Already colleagues and what Mlakar used to say, many have already touched all the important problems but are not at odds with some connection. I also agree that the proposal for a law on supervision and co-operation comes in, meaning supervision, but the question is who is watching who. If the government controls the parliament as it is now and if the future parliament will oversee the government. In this high house above which the Government, in this House of Higher Education, is over which are political powers, in this High House, which is above which are non-political powers that teach and control political powers, another conflict is taking place between theory and practice. So we've been saying all along that the Parliament is going to do something, but when we look at a little history of passing this law, then we see that the government dictated everything. First she said that she would make the law herself and then she didn't, so she gave it to one committee, so that committee gave it away on its own, and then she gave it to the other committee, and now we're talking about the adoption of that law by the Constitution Committee, she suggests that law to the Croatian Parliament, and we don't really know who the authors of that law are. It is absolutely certain that the law cannot be passed if it is a matter of cooperation and the supervision of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European affairs, it is absolutely certain that it is directed that the Government and actually need the Government and the Parliament co-operate. And quite certainly, if the government's representative were to sit here, it would be the best way to do so if it were the foreign and European affairs minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, and that we should have really discussed the essence of the matter. But since it's not like that, and since we know from practice that we are, as the Prime Minister here said in the Parliament, a semi-cancellary state, and he's acting himself as the Prime Minister who doesn't respect the Parliament, we know that this can only be a dead letter on paper, and that's another dead letter on paper. Surely, this unbearable ease of neglect, underestimating the Parliament, has led to the fact that the law is late. The law was supposed to be passed months ago if not a year ago. But we are, in all things, late in, let's say, the most late in parliamentary democracy. That's where we even started turning backwards, going backwards. For example, Article 4 of this law, which has not been discussed, has been mentioned by several parliamentary deputies, allowing for the full disenfranchisement of the Parliament. In fact, this article hides amongst the words that the prime minister will answer the committee and will not answer the plenary session of the Parliament, he will not report us, and when he informs us then he needs to connect this second act that we are going to discuss today, that is the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament who also underestimates all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We're becoming more and more an office-partitocrat state in which the public has its own precise evaluation, its precise opinion. That's why the Parliament seems right to judge me with the lowest rating possible. Is that what he did? I just said the same thing in one line, Government? This is the fault of parliamentary representatives who agree to the ultimatums of the Government, although according to the Constitution, the government originates from the Croatian Parliament. We are often here in the Assembly to witness that parliamentary representatives who speak in their debates against the law raise by a few days or the same day or day after hand for that law against which they have spoken. I agree with those MPs who said that they should change the way parliamentary representatives should be elected, that they should not be so dependent on their party, on their leaders and that they can discuss it more easily in this Croatian Parliament, and in the end, what is most important is to vote. I doubt that's gonna happen in this term, because the Kukuriku coalition has taken two big steps backwards. So the people feel that there is no power in the Parliament. If there is no power in the Parliament, then this bill of oversight, as colleagues rightly point out, should stand in the title and co-operation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government will likely be that the Government will oversee the Parliament and will oversee it through this European Committee. I have already said that it would be very important to point out who is the author of this humble war, whether it is the Government, whether it is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system, whether it is one of those powers I spoke earlier. And will there finally be a miracle in the second reading here in the House, so the government's representative will come along and discuss this bill with us parliamentarians. Someone here from the predecessors said it seems to me from the SDP club that a big public debate has been initiated and that the public has been involved in this debate. However, we often know that discussions are being conducted on the Internet pages, that long-term debates and that after these discussions the government does not, but the government does not respect the debates of the public. The haughtiness of the ruling is above the public and the debates, no matter how long they are, certainly do not produce fruit and are not purposeful. So when the very bill of law in this reading concerns my smallness won't raise a hand for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41685	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41686	You see, colleague Vuksic, perhaps one of the questions about a future millionaire will be who is the creator of this law. Is it the Government, is it the Committee on European Affairs or is it the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Because I don't believe it then, because there's been a lot of words about the schlamper, about the venison, about a number of other more difficult qualifications about this law. Well, I don't believe that people here, as MP Mlakar said then about their work that it was a public service since among other things, all the members of the board were listed as legislators and even the rapporteurs were likely to defend such a law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. So that's maybe a good idea here for television producers. Indeed, there is a legitimate question as to who is actually the creator of this law, who is the promoter. And as for time for one such law, these negotiations have first and foremost started since the time of Racan's government and this is one of the technical documents, but also a document that really represents a very important function of the Croatian Parliament's relationship with the Croatian Government and you are absolutely right. I've mentioned that a few times already. The Croatian government does not elect representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but MPs in the Parliament elect the Croatian government. And if we take this law and the new Rules of Procedure that are scheduled then we will simply, as I have said, become really ice cream observers and watch what happens not only in the EU but in Croatia, because you will not have the right to replication, the Prime Minister here can come, speak for 20 minutes, attack whoever he wants, say that you are tambourine, that you do not know what kind of political option, that you are talking nonsense, and you have no right to respond with a single word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41687	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41688	I think you're right when you ask who the author is, because it says here that the President of the Croatian Parliament has been delivered by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and that can be interpreted as such. That's what we say when the elections are the bearers of the lists in the Parliament they are the bearers of the list, so here are the suppliers of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Well, on the trail of what you've been saying who's actually in charge and who's elected by him, perhaps at this time of recession, at a time of savings it would be much cheaper, much better for the government to elect parliamentary MPs because it's been superior to the MPs anyway, so it would be a lot easier. The only question is, we have to figure out who's gonna choose the government. Maybe there'll be one government by the end of the century.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41689	On behalf of the Proposer, the final word of the President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of colleagues, Mr Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41690	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will thank you for the debate, thank you for those proposals in the area in which they were constructive and we will certainly try to put them in the final proposal draft, and then hopefully the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system when it discusses the adoption and proposal of the final draft law and the remarks in most parts and supports. I'm gonna have to start here from the beginning, just to get a few things straight. The proposer of this law as clearly stated in it, as stated in the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, has made it even more clear that this parliamentary committee and no one else has been mentioned. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Today on behalf of the promoter I speak, but if we had agreed differently he could have spoken to any of the colleagues on that committee today, there would have been no difference. We suggested that document. You want to know who wrote it? Here you won't believe it was written in the Parliament. Some may surprise it, but this document is really prepared in the House. And now, neither my colleague Mondekar nor I are supermen that we are such a document, regardless of what bothers anyone that there are only 17 articles, we have not been able to make a colleague of Mondekar or myself, so we have consulted with other colleagues from the Parliament and with colleagues from other parliaments who have pointed out some problems, the lack of their systems, on some of the good side of our systems that we have tried to integrate here. We have consulted with professional services both in the Parliament and in the Government because we are cooperating, because we are not an island, and we have specifically consulted the public. So some of the remarks that came to us in the public debate and that came before the public debate was held, before the proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the Committee on the Constitution was adopted and integrated into the system, for example on external board members. But I believe you won't believe it, but these are facts. Now, about the law itself. There was a really wide discussion about the law itself. In a whole series of committees of this Parliament, now here, online consultation was held, a roundtable was held on which representatives were not only political parties but also interested public. They have made a whole series of concrete, well-intentioned remarks that I can already say that I believe will have to be adopted because they are such a character. No matter who suggested them. For example, after we have heard the objection to Article 4 which is given to the Committee on Foreign Policy and I here have to say responsibly that I will advocate that their observations be adopted. Just as I heard it, after reviewing it, I also advocate that the observations of my fellow Stier in a certain form be adopted where it relates to Article 11, i.e. the need for additional information, both the Parliament and the Committee on European Affairs on meetings of the European Council. So this is the first reading, we're not the smartest in the world. When a well - meaning remark is heard, it will have to be adopted. However, some remarks are not in place. In particular, as regards Article 8 it is more than clear that the Government in the EU institutions is acting on the basis of the Assembly's conclusion if the Parliament makes such a conclusion. The way that it is set out in the law literally follows the provision of the Constitution and there we cannot move left or right. The constitution has been prescribed, we have integrated that provision into law. And clearly, it is the parliament that will decide if it wants to, if it wants the government to act in the EU institutions. With regard to the invitation of the Prime Minister, the law stipulates that the President of the Parliament is doing so, and the Rules of Procedure clearly states that the President of the Parliament can do so on its own initiative, but also on the initiative of the Committee on European Affairs. And we think that this is more than enough covered by the way the Prime Minister should come to this House and inform us about what was happening at the European Council meetings and what is the current position of the Republic of Croatia in that body and in the EU itself. With regard to Article 15, we also consider the proposed solution to be good because, apart from the Government as a formal proposal and the Parliament, they will have the opportunity to say what they think about the appointment of a person in the EU institutions. I personally do not see the need for change, and as my colleague Mondekar made it very clear that this model places us in the above House of European Parliaments under the powers we have in terms of appointments to the EU institutions. And lastly, I have to say a little bit, and I'm sorry, I kind of feel like the most debate has been about the name of this law. About how it was arranged in the Croatian Constitution, I will not because my colleague Jelash explained it more than clearly. However, I will read to you the names of several laws in countries that are close to us or which may be a model for us in this matter and you will see what has led us also, apart from the constitutional provisions themselves, in the idea of calling this law a Co-operation Act. For example, the German Law on the Cooperation of the Federal Government and the German Bundestag in European Affairs. The Hungarian Law on the Cooperation of Parliament and Government in EU Affairs. Slovenia Law on the Cooperation of the National Assembly and Government in European Affairs. Slovakia Constitutional Law on Cooperation between the National Council of the Republic of Slovakia and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia in European Affairs, etc. So I really don't see what would be controversial in having two bodies cooperating on the benefit of the Republic of Croatia? And this cooperation in certain elements has a form of supervision, in other elements it has a form of cooperation because it is prescribed how, for example, it will be done. delivering information and other documents to the Croatian Parliament. Here, this is what I'd end up with. He announced that I hope that we will support this first reading on Friday and will discuss this law in the second reading very soon before July 1st and adopt it in accordance with our needs to come into force by July 1st this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41691	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll get back to you on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41692	Proposal for a law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, first reading, P.Z. No. 373. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in European affairs proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you, please score. I find that the majority of the 77 votes in favour of, 2 votes against, 22 votes have been abstentioned to the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41693	We move to: - Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament – Proposer: Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, first reading. You've received the proposal in boxes. When adopting the draft Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of colleagues, Peja Grbin, will provide an introductory explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41694	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The important Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament brought the House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly to the session held on 30 June 2000, so at a time when the Parliament was still set up as a two-man body and during the previous 13 years its text was adapted to normative regulation in a way that the Rules of Procedure was changed 8 times and complemented. Given the new need to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament necessary for the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia as well as the fact that a whole series of provisions of the Rules of Procedure needed to be modernised with the existing practice and to amend the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament propose to this House the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which we hope will contribute to the greater effectiveness of the work of the Parliament and will contribute to a greater democratisation of the procedure for the adoption of laws and other acts adopted in accordance with the constitutional powers adopted by the Assembly. Important amendments to the current rules of procedure relate to the following, primarily to this proposal, the work of the Parliament in European affairs. Legislative acts and other decisions directly applicable in Croatia or requiring an amendment to Croatian legislation shall be adopted in the EU. In the adoption of these documents, the Parliament does not directly participate but indirectly through the government's process of monitoring the activities in the EU institutions, which was discussed in the previous agenda. With this proposal for a Rules of Procedure, we set up a Committee on European Affairs and regulate the way this Committee works, communicate with other parent committees and the instruments that the Parliament will have in order to exercise those powers directly conferred on it by the Lisbon Treaty. Unlike other committees, the Committee on European Affairs will have 17 members, and representatives of the public will be included in its work through external committee members. We believe that the proposed provisions of the Rules of Procedure guarantee the broad involvement of the home working bodies of the Assembly and the public in the process of adopting EU acts. In addition to the provisions concerning the EU's rules of procedure, provisions relating to the definition of certain concepts within the meaning of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure have been incorporated in the text of the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of an uninterrupted course of the first constitution, the temporary chairmanship of the session of the Assembly shall be arranged and shall be determined in a clearer and more precise manner by the distinctions between the elected representative and the representative to whom the mandate has begun. The provision of Article 15 of the proposal provides for a way of delivering official documents collected and processed in the Assembly, the Government, the ministries and other bodies of the state administration and the EU document. The provisions on the partiality of individual committees are in line with the changes in the legal system while, as particularly important changes, it is necessary to highlight the expansion of the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs to the issue of consumer protection and the Committee on Legislatorship to propose the adoption of uniform methodological nomotechnical rules for the making of acts. The amendments have been made to the provisions concerning situations in which a single member of the government is individually elected in such a way that the procedure is primarily placed before the parent committee which will be able to conduct the hearing of candidates and ask questions about his programme and work plan if he becomes a minister which has not been possible so far. The rules of procedure introduce the special obligation of the annual report to the Parliament on the work of the Government and the state of affairs in the State which the Prime Minister is obliged to submit once a year at the beginning of the second regular session of the Parliament. Such a report would have to be presented orally to the Prime Minister with a view to better getting to know the public about government activities but also with a view to ensuring stronger co-operation between the Parliament and the Government. The Union is a provision under which, if amendments and amendments to the law are made in the legislative procedure, the Assembly may conclude on the adoption of a bill which determines the applicant to draft a final draft law, specify that the applicant, instead of the amendments and additions in question, may draw up a complete proposal for a law to avoid situations where we accumulate amendments and amendments to the law, so that individual laws have more than 20. It also extends the application of sanctions, a reminder of the withdrawal of words in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, in a different way the submission of a complaint by the representatives against a strict measure of distance from the session of the Assembly, is prescribed that, instead of the printed note, the Assembly considers the website of the Assembly, etc. Finally, I would like to stress that this proposal for a Rules of Procedure does not represent any revolutionary change but one intention to make the Rules of Procedure better, stressing its positive characteristics and trying to make those who have shown themselves to be bad changes in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41695	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are clubs. On behalf of Croatian laborists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41696	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate with the conclusion that this proposal of the Rules of Procedure would better be called by the Rules of Procedure on the Protection of Persons and the Works of Prime Ministers or members of the Government whoever they are, and the second part is the Rules of Procedure on the castration of opposition representatives and club representatives. Of all that the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System have said, I agree only that the approach to writing a completely new Rules of Procedure is better than going to the 9th Amendments and Supplements because I have always advocated that too many amendments and additions to any act create legal uncertainty and doubt. But we're going through the rules of procedure. He's got a lot of objections. I'll stay with the ones I think are important. I would like to warn you that the proposed Article 29 narrows down the possibility of forming representatives' clubs in relation to the solution so far, as it provides for the possibility that only political party representatives or more of them can form representatives together or only independent representatives. While the current Rules of Procedure also enabled the establishment of joint clubs of representatives of independent representatives and political parties. And, of course, the provisions or words about national minority representatives will again be interpreted differently because national minority representatives can be independent representatives as well as representatives of an individual political party! So the double status has by choice, with both here and here in Article 29, and they make an exception that they can have their own club representatives and be a member of the party to which they belong. But let those who are directly concerned by this change in Article 29 be more concerned. I asked, I didn't get too many answers why we're introducing more vice presidents to these Rules of Procedure. So far, all the working bodies of the Parliament had a president and a vice president. It is now mentioned in Article 46 that the working bodies have a president, vice-president and a number of members. Why more vice presidents. Furthermore, when the Prime Minister comes to the Parliament, he represents the programme and candidates for the government, members of the government. However, according to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, in Article 119, parliamentary representatives should not discuss candidates for members of the Government but only the Government's programme... candidate for prime minister offered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Try to understand now this, he is coming to present the programme and candidates for the government but the debate can only be held on the proposed programme but not on candidates for the government. Even nicer under quotes is the solution given for the reconstruction of the government. If during the term of office there is a change in the government's membership, the candidate for the new minister goes before the parent board. If you don't know what his parent committee is or if it's a member of the government without... Then he goes before the Constitution Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it says in the Rules of Procedure that he can be asked questions and that he can answer questions. What is the point of it when we choose the entire government or the debate on candidates for members of the government, on the board here I now give the power to ask questions but the candidate does not have to answer. And then this proposal comes to a plenary session that is being voted on by the new minister without debate. So, no discussion at the plenary session. This is how the government's reconstruction can be simplified. That the prime minister, 24 hours in writing, was reporting to the Parliament who replaced him, who appointed him as the new minister. Article 122 speaks of the government's obligation to make proposals when it is not a proposal. And I'm surprised at the SDP Club for repeating such a provision in the Rules of Procedure. Because this particular rule on a Rules of Procedure, which does not have a deadline within which the Government must be written, was the subject of the most heated arguments, oversmarts, weights, angers and protests while they were in opposition because such a way of delay, opening discussions on opposition proposals because the Government had not delivered an opinion and it was an excuse to the working bodies why they could not open the debate. And President of the Parliament was excused for not having the opinion of the working bodies, so he can't open a debate at the plenary session. And the beginning of the problem is in Article 122(2), in which we do not dare commit ourselves to the Government, within which time it must give an opinion on the opposition proposal. Why is it a problem to write that the Government must deliver an opinion within 30 days? If it is truly believed that there must be such a provision in Parliament's Rules of Procedure that the ruling majority always allows for the obstruction of the opposition in the first stage, therefore not giving opinions and non-registration of any deadlines, then this Rules of Procedure should not have any provisions in that section. Or we can simply say that without the government's consent, the opposition has no right to propose anything. When it comes to parliamentary issues, the current morning representative has 2 minutes, now according to the new Rules of Procedure, the minister has 4 minutes to respond. We used to have two minutes, and with an extremely difficult question at his request and with the approval of the President of the Parliament, he could have answered four minutes. It's usually four minutes now. And there's always four minutes when a minister or anyone starts answering. So is it possible that all questions are so complicated that it takes him once more time to answer questions than time to ask questions? We're going to the U.S. government's work. It was eight days before the President of the Parliament delivered the impelation to the government, now it's 15. The government had to respond within eight days, now it's 15. So then within eight days it was going to be divided by the MPs, now it's 15, 3 times 15 is 45. And then comes the provision of Article 148 to include the interpretation on the agenda of the next, first next session. Since the Assembly sessions are now four months apart, this means that the interpretation to come on the agenda from day to day will be included in the agenda. pass between 6 and 8 months, depending on the month in which it was filed. Six to eight months. But that doesn't mean that it will be discussed on the first day of the first session, only that it will be placed on the agenda and nothing else. The opposition shall make a proposal to the President of the Parliament as referred to in Article 178, and he shall be obliged to refer these proposals to the working bodies, to the Government if the Government is not a proposing. In what time, there's no deadline again. And every time the government's not proposing, there's no deadline. Article 179 states that the working bodies must consider all proposals made in the procedure but not known when there is no deadline. So the working bodies and the parent working body can put an opposition proposal on the agenda for 10 months, whether or not they had the government's opinion, anyway. And when that was met with its miracle, the opinion of the Government came, the working body gave its position, the question was the opening of the debate at the plenary session was given at will to only one person, who at some point chaired the plenary session or the president of the Assembly because the formulation of the session is generally used when all the points of the agenda are exhausted in the Rules of Procedure, to use the session to interrupt when opposition proposals come to the agenda. If we had a rule that the session had to last so long until all the points of the agenda were exhausted, then these manipulations would be gone. And how is it that this kind of manipulation of opposition proposals that HDZ and its coalition have so consistently used against the current ruling heritage coalition and continue to retain in the Rules of Procedure? A good solution is offered in Article 187(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), that if it is a bill that already has several amendments and additions, the Assembly may conclude that the second reading goes into the procedure of the new text, that a new law must be done rather than amending and supplementing the law. This is a small step in the fact that in Croatia we should not have laws with 28 amendments and additions. However, such a formulation is not yet a sufficient guarantee, I would like to advocate that we clearly prescribe that one law can have no more than three amendments and complements, and then it must go with the new law, especially because we do not have a regular practice of publishing the consolidated texts of the law, especially because a large number of civil servants and local officials are forced to use the unofficial texts of the consolidated texts because indeed no one is able to comply in the forest anymore to amend and supplement the laws. In the past term, even before the end of the term of office, the HDZ was prepared for one such provision to restrict the right to propose amendments and amendments to the law if three such amendments and additions have already been made and that a whole new law must be offered in the fourth intervention. When a session of the Parliament lasts for more than a day, the President of the Parliament may propose an addition of the agenda and, of course, the addition of the agenda is always done by government proposals. But when you link that right of the president to propose a revision of the agenda to Article 224 of the last sentence, then it always turns out that opposition proposals are never included in the agenda during the session, but that 30-day formulation is used for the first next session. Finally, with a number of technical details likely to be made by the promoter himself, if the Rules of Procedure prevents opposition proposals in order of time, with minimal respect for the Government and the working bodies, to have the same treatment and status, and to allow them to discuss both in committees and plenary sessions, it is a castration of opposition. This is evidence of force and the supremacy of the ruling majority that all opposition proposals for quality content can be destroyed only in a way that delays the opening of the debate when topics, bill proposals or other proposals of acts become or pass, unnecessary or, in the meantime, some of these laws have already been amended by the government's proposal. It's all within the deadlines, for no government, labour force, and one who makes up the agenda, there's not a single period of obligation to include it in the agenda. And for this reason, we are the only member of the European Union within a few days, to God's modern democratic state in which the Democrats are in power, opposition proposals on the Parliament's agenda can be 3 years, 11 months and 29 days without the debate opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41697	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, SDP deputy president Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41698	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There are three reasons why this Rules of Procedure is brought in. The first is the preparation for membership in the European Union and the obligation of the Parliament to play a new role. The second is a better organisation of Parliament's work, and the third is the removal of anacronism and illogicality in this bill. The first reason I won't talk about it is because it's been talked about a lot already within the previous agenda point. So let us analyse what is happening in this proposal for a new Rules of Procedure on the plan of better organisation of work and removal of anacronism and illogicality. Many legislators in informal talks told me I agree, that we should have a better organisation and a firmer session plan, in order to model some European parliaments, we should have a plan to work in advance, and perhaps at the level of the quarterly and agenda, or at least at the level of one session, the scheduled session, so that we always know what is done, when it is done and how long the work will take. Many EU countries have this issue regulated in a quality way. And how did they regulate it? So when the agenda is adopted, then it is determined how long the debate will take on a particular agenda point, a total of how long the debate will take, and then that time is divided by clubs depending on the club's strength. Thus, it can be predicted exactly how long the debate will take on a specific agenda point and thus work can be planned. In our Rules of Procedure, we have such an option in Article 234, but the SDP club believes that this should be specified in a way that the word "extremely" should be excluded to determine that time determines the Presidency of the Assembly and that at that time that wastes on each club enters and responds to replicas. Why would this increase the quality of our work, and why would it improve the organization? And why would it actually work democratically, so that it wouldn't happen that some club that has the support of 6% of the electorate takes 60% of the time here so that not only would the minority terrorise not only the majority of Parliament, but the general public, and then appears to be countless replicas of every speaker, so it's replicated to its own club, and in this replica it's not just about the subject, but it's quoted by the Viennans, it's going to jump out and it's mostly unsuccessfully trying to be funny. This would allow this amendment to pay greater attention to the committee's work. Because then it is quite clear that not every MP could count on that within a time specified for his club to come to order, but his representative duty, his right to use in the work of the board. The committees would then get more at the price, and that is what absolutely all MPs advocate, to shift the focus or to strengthen the work on committees. I also think that we should consider this, and we suggest that the proposer consider, by the second reading, the possibility of shortening the time of speech, which the president or chair may do, given the number of registered speakers. If we do not use this plan to set time for each club, then if we continue to work like this when it is seen that too many representatives have applied for the topic to reduce the time foreseen for both clubs and representatives. Such a practice also exists in European parliaments, it is not any suppression of democracy. So in countries that have a longer democratic tradition, a much longer democratic tradition than we have. Current morning Article 136. We've actually been constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure so far. Who answers? Who's asking questions? Members of the government, prime minister and members of the government. Who has the right to answer? Prime Minister and members of the government. Who are members of the government? Ministers. Are those the deputies? No, they're not. Then what do deputies have to look for on the current morning? Nothing. The current morning must be attended by those who have the right to respond. However, we must resolve this issue logically. But the minister got sick, ended up in the hospital, and a representative prepared a question for him. Who, then, has the right to answer such a question? According to our deep conviction, the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of this portfolio or the Prime Minister. We also believe that the prime minister would have the opportunity within the four minutes that the Rules of Procedure now provide to supplement the response of each minister. Why? Well, because he's responsible for the government's overall work and for the work of all its ministers. And because the question could be asked by the culture minister to say what was done in the economy in a particular county. Yes, no one can forbid an MP to ask a question to the wrong minister. At that time, the prime minister must have the right, the possibility of answering such a question, or supplementing the answer. We believe that Article 127 should be amended. He says, "The parliament, or its working bodies, other than the report and data, may ask ministers and officials to handle the work of other authorities of the state administration to carry out certain actions that are in their jurisdiction." The club thinks this is an incursion of executive power. The Assembly may not be able to ask certain officials to carry out certain measures or actions in their work. Why? Because the head of some administration, in part, of his work, is, for example, the appointment and replacement of his deputies, so that if this were literally applied by a parliamentary board, he might ask the head of a state administration to relieve his deputy or assistant. The Parliament oversees the government and the Parliament, the plenary session, the tide may require something from the government, but the implementation of it belongs to the government rather than to the Parliament. So, the Parliament shouldn't, and especially not the working bodies, ask any officials for anything but the government as a whole. Replica, so I think it is our duty for all to care for the integrity of the Parliament, or the dignity of the Parliament. It's the dignity of each of us. At some points, debates are extended indefinitely because they are excessively, excessively replicable and their own club. Replicating your own club means expressing disagreement with the position of your own club. That means almost to show your desire to start a new club. That replica loses its meaning, it loses its strength, it loses its basic idea. And I think it would be in the interest of all of us if we can't reach an agreement, a collegiate agreement that this is not a matter, then that it should be arranged in an adequate manner by the Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure should be determined more precisely when emergency procedures are to be taken. So we think that a better formulation would be the law can be passed by emergency procedure when it requires particularly justified reasons which must be particularly justified. Because watch out, we've had that formulation from the time of war and porn when it requires the interests of the defense. Today I don't think we should name the area anymore. When it is justified, let the government explain the reasons. They can be different with any legal proposal. But I think we should definitely specify them. The publication of the agenda. We're in a situation where every time we adopt the agenda, I'd have to read that adopted agenda now, do you give me permission not to do it? And then we all nod our heads, so the president doesn't have to do that. So let's sort it out with the Rules of Procedure, so that this agenda is published in an appropriate manner. For example on the Assembly website. That not every time the president has to ask us and we're giving him approval for something that's completely illogical that he's now reading half an hour's agenda. Second reading of the law, here I was, and the other day I had to warn my colleague not to stick to the Rules of Procedure because what does our Rules of Procedure say now? That the second reading covers the debate on the text of the final draft law with the positions of the working bodies, the debate on the amendments submitted, the decision on amendments and the adoption of the law. And the debate in the first reading or when the law is passed by emergency procedure, so the first and second readings of course include a debate on the context in which the law is passed. But if we have such a strict provision for a second law reading that nobody's keeping alive, then let's get her out of the Rules of Procedure. Let us make it possible for ourselves to speak in a second reading of everything and everything if we want to. But let's not keep some provision that we won't stick to because that makes us complicated our work, especially the one who runs the session. So, let's get that debate back to the Rules of Procedure. When some law has a P.Z.E. mark, then it goes into emergency procedure, but what happens often in practice? One part of the law is changed in a way that is consistent with EU directives, and the other part of the law is changed along the way, and this has nothing to do with any EU directives, but the government is proposing amendments to the law as otherwise proposed. We believe that such changes that are not exclusively in line with EU directives should go into two readings as well as any other law. Or there should be, in particular, justified reasons for the emergency procedure that should be indicated. And there's one article in 196, and I think this is about a mistake when you say, so that's where it's given, that's the question of the amendment. Amendments may only be submitted to those articles of the law which are amended by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. The amendments are now foreseen here that, exceptionally referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the amendments may also be submitted to the articles of the laws which are not covered by the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws if they are of such nature that they correspond to the amendments to the amendments to the proposed amendments and amendments. First of all, I think that this is about lapsus calamiu, these amendments do not belong there at all, so obviously the intensity was that amendments can also be submitted to those articles of laws that are not covered by the amendments if they correspond to the proposed amendments and additions. It's a rather dangerous situation that I think we shouldn't accept. It allows the government to manipulate the Rules of Procedure. The government proposes to amend and supplement a law, through this in the debate in the first and second readings and then the club, the majority club and the government end up submitting 6 amendments to articles that have not been discussed at all. A government official comes and says the government accepts, the government accepts, the government accepts and changes the law in the part in which it has never been discussed. I think it's pretty dangerous, one dangerous situation. This is, for example, an article that significantly endangers parliamentaryism, not those mentioned in the discussion of fellow Lesar. And I suggest to the Proposer that this seriously consider this remark and correct it until the second reading. Otherwise, I think this proposal of the Rules of Procedure brings a good balance between the opposition's democratic right to act in the Parliament to hear her voice and to prevent the minority from terrorising the majority and the entire public. If in the organization of this work we can strengthen this line, I think it will benefit all the representatives, all the clubs, and in the interest of the Parliament as an institution, the important institutions of this society, and in the interest of restoring the dignity of this House, which we must agree all about seriously violated in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41699	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dragutin Lesar first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41700	I agree with you that the replica within the club of the same club of MPs is not actually a replica so that we can ban it through the rules of procedure. But when you speak of the terror of the minority over most of the previous Parliament's council, you were then the champion of this terror because you used your right through replicas and fought justly and rightly, for the possibility of public speaking. And that's where you brillianted, two convocations of the Parliament as far as I can remember. If this Rules of Procedure already wish the opposition only a truce mentioned in the current morning where ministers have twice as much time... to answer from the MP to ask. The second is Article 128 when the prime minister comes and submits a report on the government's work and state of the state at the beginning of the first second regular session. And this Rules of Procedure stipulates that the prime minister can speak for an hour without having a replica on his speech. Only 20-minute representatives' clubs can participate in the debate, the prime minister has another 20 minutes left without a replica. During the debate on interpretation, the right to replication is either addressed to the prime minister or to a member of the government whose trust is being questioned in the Rules of Procedure only has a representative whom he has called. You forgot to write by name, last name, by hair color, suit, height and party membership because if you do not mention his name but quotes his claim, statement, accusation, suggestion anything without mentioning or calling to quote the Rules of Procedure we all must remain silent. A good relationship between the strength and the ratio of the democratic parliamentary majority and the minority is not about limiting time but also respecting the adopted agenda. Yesterday you witnessed what a mess in the agenda means.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41701	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41702	First, they do not have members of the government twice as much time as representatives in the current morning. The question lasts two minutes, and the comment of that answer lasts another minute. And here, the government would have four minutes with each minister adopting what I proposed, and he would have to leave some time for the prime minister if he wanted to intervene, so that thing would actually be completely balanced. Second, when the prime minister speaks for an hour then the club has no right to replicate him, but the talking clubs have 11 clubs here every 20 minutes, it's 220 minutes if I calculated it well 3 hours and 40 minutes. And the Prime Minister doesn't have the right to speak. He's been listening for over three hours to attack him and he doesn't have the right to say anything. And you're saying now that this proposal of the Rules of Procedure has been made and favored by a prime minister who, for over 3 hours and 40 minutes, has to keep his mouth shut and listen to what he's told. And you're saying there's no balance, so if there's a imbalance there at the prime minister's expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41703	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41704	You told your colleague Stazic that according to your proposal, one of the club proposals should set a time for debates. And you would probably set time for the number of MPs because you said that the minority can't terrorise the majority and I can't quote you, a club that has 6% of the electorate's bodies take most of the time in the Parliament. Then we'll be fine, we'll have an even smaller reputation because Parliament's sessions will last once a week because most of them are silent. You don't need that time. That's what I'm saying according to practice. You said it was our duty to take care of Parliament's dignity. What most disrupts Parliament's integrity? It is the subjective mentality of the parliamentary representatives of the majority regardless of whether it is the majority or this majority. It's all unspeakable. If you're talking, you used to say that you talked to colleagues who would do something, then talk to your colleagues when they're ashamed to have to raise their hands. It violates Parliament's integrity, not what we're discussing here. This is an anti-democratic proposal from the Rules of Procedure. Shut up the opposition, don't give her the chance to speak, as little as possible, as possible. You say why the Prime Minister would listen for a few hours, and he's got an hour. So he comes to the Croatian Parliament and you forget that you continue to claim that the prime minister is superior to the parliamentary deputies. He came to listen to us, he's going to listen because here he's chosen here is confirmed. I think I'll talk the rest in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41705	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41706	If you are talking about this proposal of the Rules of Procedure as anti-democratic, then you should read the Rules of Procedures of Parliament of Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Slovenia and see that you have no idea what you are talking about. I wouldn't set a fellow time club, I wouldn't do it like you say. This would work for the Bureau in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in a way that determines the minimum time that can be the current time of 15 minutes plus a certain time added by the number of representatives. It's a practice in democracy older than ours. In democracy that... [[/In the democracys?]] That's what you think. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you think we're not democracy, that's your problem. You say the Parliament would then work once a week. You wouldn't work once a week, but you'd be working on committees more. Not so much in front of the cameras, not so much as building a picture of myself, so now, I'm not going to characterize it as it is. In the media and in the public, it would be more responsible, more serious, to work on the bill's proposal with the aim of completing the bill, editing, sanding, polishing it to be as high-quality as possible. The time of discussion on committees should not be limited at all, because there should actually be cooperation with external committee members who are experts from a particular area there should actually be corrected legislative proposals rather than at a plenary session. Again, my colleague Vuksic, let me tell you, it's not my invention, it's not my invention, so it's done in advanced democracies. I don't know why we shouldn't look up to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41707	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41708	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, you said in your debate that the replica inside the club actually kind of ruins the dignity of this House. We've all come to this Croatian Parliament, I'm the first time, you've been here a long time, the only tool we have is actually a speech. According to the Rules of Procedure, we can talk about an individual debate, in a debate of the club, in a replica, in a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately you have downloaded that provision that we have had, and that is the correction of the incorrect assumption. Let's look at the statistics, maybe see what happened. Your idea was to remove the correction of an incorrect quote, we'll be faster, more efficient, etc., etc., it's being misused. I think that by as many as the corrections of the incorrect assumption that on the other hand the number of replicas has increased. Inside the club if my club representative is speaking it's possible that he in his debate and doesn't touch everything that we at the club might and we think he should have said when speaking on behalf of the club or individually. Why don't you complement it with some kind of thinking, especially if you're sure or you know you won't discuss it individually or if you think it's exactly what might be missing that debate would have some kind of final form. Which would limit that, then. I think it's a wrong approach and you should think about it and you didn't say anything about it that most in this House, this House is being abused by the Rules of Procedure. When they all appear, when they lose an opportunity to answer or forget something, a replica, etc., plates of damage to the Rules of Procedure rise, and then be replicated under that term. And of course there's no punishment for that. Except you can complain to someone, so if you don't complain, you won't argue anymore. You have raised your first amendment to the Rules of Procedure so high that it really is now in the heat and our discussions last deep into the night as they once did. I think it was your fault. Better if there was a correction to the incorrect quote, we would be doing a lot less replicating today and the debates would certainly be of equal quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41709	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41710	We did not correct the incorrect allegations from the Rules of Procedure because we wanted everything to be faster and more efficient than that institute was being abused. And we wanted to throw out an institute that was constantly being misused because there was a tile of an incorrect quote that was actually replicated without being able to hear the answer to the replica. That's why we introduced a response to the replica. What's going on now? Well, look, it all depends on the conscience of the MPs. A conscientious representative didn't do it, he didn't know it. Will the replica now be misused? So it is possible that everything in the world can be misused, so everything can be misused, and now is it in our interest to prevent or encourage this abuse. If you say the replica serves to supplement the club and let's call it a supplemental club, let's call it a two-minute supplemental club and the representative can complete his club once. I think so. Let's find a reasonable solution. Members of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure will not object, I assure you, not once, whether it comes from the opposition or from the ruling majority that aims to improve our Rules of Procedure. And prevent abuse. And thank you for mentioning the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that there should be some change in that too. It should be amended to the effect that when a representative abuses a panel of infringements of the Rules of Procedure, any such application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure shall be discussed by the Constitution for the Committee and the Rules of Procedure. And if he finds out that he's misappropriated that there's no right to lift that tile at that session anymore. Because look, because you can see that one irresponsible agent can interfere with the debate every five minutes and say, so now I'm using the Rules of Procedure. So is that our goal, or is it our goal to prevent such abuses?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41711	And colleague Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41712	... Madam Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrade Stazic, I'm sure the opposition representative Stazic had listened to what he was saying to the vice president of the House would be horrified, why? The replica inside the club was the fiction of the SDP Club and when you were in opposition, it didn't bother you. However, the budget was discussed until 3.4 a.m. solely because of these replicas. The second thing, you are definitely suggesting that, first of all, opposition MPs be limited to speaking time in this House, you suggest. And you're giving the government... The possibility of a debate or anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should know that until the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, which is now in force, the Government's representative had no opportunity to rephrase during the debate to the parliamentary representative. However, it was not possible to report after correcting the incorrect allegations and everything but only when a parliamentary representative or club debated only after that debate could be heard and debated. So you're now giving the government far greater opportunities, greater rights than a parliamentary representative. It's a logical thing, so you know very well that a man in a parliamentary debate uses every opportunity to express his opinion, his attitude, sometimes guesses, sometimes fails, but I don't think any MP is irresponsible. Everyone has their own way and style like you did. That's why I said that fellow opposition representative Stazic would be disgusted by this, but these are facts. Obviously, we see things differently, depending on whether we're a position or an opposition. However, I think the key thing to this whole thing is that we are all discussing what the subject of the law is, therefore proposed, there are more of us than the representatives of the government and more than once are given here and concrete and good examples and perhaps it would be good for the government to adopt them. However, your proposal on behalf of the SDP club goes unfortunately with that the government is everything, the government can do anything, and you gentlemen opposition MPs can frigate, we'll limit you to some few minutes to discuss and that's all. Discuss on the committees on which we remain silent, and you argue because your discussions on boards are almost nonexistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41713	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41714	So I don't think it's true that the aim of this Rules of Procedure is to silence the opposition. First of all, it wouldn't be possible, there isn't such a Rules of Procedure, it's hard to imagine who would completely silence the opposition. You're saying that so far, the government has had no right to respond to the correction of an incorrect allegation. That's true, but we realized that this correction is actually an institute that is being abused both by the government and by the promoter and by the representatives and by the clubs and by the colleagues and by everyone. That's why we kicked him out. If you enter a replica, you need to introduce a reply institute. So if a representative can now or a club can respond to the replica of his representative so that the government can't match the replica of any other representative or other club. ... I didn't hear you throw this away. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, well, I can't answer that when I haven't heard. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I would personally suggest that there is no replica of either the proposer or the club not only from the same club but from the opposite club because when someone speaks on behalf of the club he does not speak for himself, what will you replicate to him. You'd have to replicate the whole club, it could just be some other club because that would make sense. Replica to the Proposer, so any debate may be a replica to the Proposer, so rise up for debate and say crash, I've never seen or heard of a stupider bill of law than this before. Well, that's a replica. You've been replicating him for 10 minutes in your debate. Therefore, it is an institute that is completely unnecessary in relation to the promoter. But once we've introduced him, let's make those rules to at least prevent abuse, to leave his democratic application, but to prevent abuse. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41715	Let's get this off the bench. On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41716	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I would dare say that there is no Rules of Procedure on the work of any body whom people are ill-willed, so the opposite of that people of goodwill, are not in a way depraved, detached or what my colleague Stazic said to abuse. So the Rules of Procedure are and can only be a catalogue of procedural norms. He can and should actually be a guide through procedure, a set of rules as to how a certain procedure is implemented. It is true, MPs in the Croatian Parliament must not be limited to freedom of speech because it is as counterpart Boris said the only tool they have, regardless of whether they are in opposition or opposition. There's almost no other way to express their attitude or suggestion. I can, of course, also submit a written amendment. So, the fact is that parliament as such already in the root of its word has a word as a basic tool for those who are its members. Another thing is how we will use or abuse our speech to achieve a specific goal. This goal can be to send a message, this goal can be to be a well-intentioned criticism, a guide to change something, but it can be completely selfish, in fact only to attract someone's attention so that we don't represent ourselves as an individual, regardless of what we think or the attitude of a group we represent here, in a better light than she or we really deserve. So it's always a matter of good faith, if we want to be polite, in a good relationship with the rights of others. Sometimes this Parliament must also provide him with heels, entertainment skills, irony, sarcasm, these are extremely important figures of style that, in fact, with little words of intonation, can paint the meaning or meaninglessness of what we have in terms of what we have. That we'll never hope to even try to sanction. But what seems to me to be missing here, not in this text of the Rules of Procedure, but otherwise in parliamentary practice, is constant technical communication between the position and the opposition. She'd have to exist and she'd have to work. The opposition-position section can be seen once a year, conditionally said in extensions, and that is the budget. The budget is a split between the position and the opposition because it defines government policy as the framework in which a separate policy takes place, i.e. the ruling policy. Of course it's perfectly normal for the opposition to criticise the draft budget to actually seek a different policy. When I say further, I mean potential rebalancing. All other issues as seen on Fridays are issues where the position and opposition achieves as far as the Croatian Parliament is concerned by a very high consensus. See how many of our laws are actually adopted with votes from all clubs – a very large number. So there is also a spirit and platform on which parliamentaryism should build even better, even more, more engaged. What seems to me to be lacking is constant technical communication between clubs, between club presidents and the position and opposition in order to avoid some things, so as not to go into conflicts that are unnecessary or that are only the result of the lack of information or false understanding. Let's talk about it a little bit. I think it's worth our conversation, and then it'll ease the tension around concrete solutions. Because I'm saying all the solutions proposed by one or the other can be kind of twisted. What we can now take advantage of this opportunity when, therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is to equate some expressions, some ways of defining certain roles. For example, look at the working bodies of the Parliament. Some working bodies are defined in one way, even technically, and the other in another way, in their articles that describe their tasks. For example, the committees in Articles 99, 101 and 103, so agriculture, transport and connections and other maritime activities, in a completely different way, define their powers and part-time work in relation to others. This technically can be relatively simple and fast. The fact is also that we are changing this Rules of Procedure because we are making space very important for the new committee. It is the Committee on European Affairs. As one of the most important, if not the most important working body of the Croatian Parliament in the context of our participation in the EU as a community where we bear our obligations, but we also exercise our rights. What we would suggest from the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats – is that what is being defined for all committees is, for example, what is written at this time as part of the work of the Committee on Tourism, which is illogical. So it doesn't make sense that only the Committee on Tourism has a provision, and here I'm going to quote it to you now is Article 77. Cooperation with relevant working bodies in the European Parliament and the parliaments of other countries. It's something to write to all the committees. We therefore propose that this, as well as the right to discuss all European issues concerning individual policies for which individual committees are responsible, be subject to one specific article, so that one article is regulated as the rights of all committees. And then we'll even the approach. Furthermore, I would refer to Article 127 where there is actually an opportunity for working bodies to be asked directly by ministers and government officials to implement certain Committee conclusions. It's a violation of the existing relationship between the division of power. I find it almost unimaginable that members of the Finance Committee could, for example, order the Minister of Finance to do what he should do. This provision of Article 127, unfortunately, has been streamlining in such a way that it would be possible. The working bodies of the Croatian Parliament as an integral part of our Parliament have not only the right but also the obligation to oversee the implementation of development policies in this sense to give conclusions and recommendations, but not to communicate directly with ministers, the Croatian Parliament, responsible government. The parliament can give orders to the government, but not to ministers, deputy ministers, chiefs of individual administrations. How far would that go? So they answer to the government, or the prime minister, or their ministers, if it's a lower rank. So, it seems to us that this is not good because this principle of the commission to bring down to the level of the working bodies I think would cause major problems. As for the expressions in Article 128, we are certainly committed by the Prime Minister to regularly reporting to the Croatian Parliament on the work of the Government whether this statement and state in the country is real. Now that's something we're offering to discuss to the Proposer that once again, so consider whether it's a good statement because actually the state of the country is a very hard formulation that I think belongs to hard lead times when the state was in danger no matter who assessed that danger. But definitely when I talk about the work of the government, the government through its resources covers but absolutely all the issues that can be of interest to the Croatian Parliament. So, we propose to the promoter that, during this period until the second reading, a little bit, so that it approaches the uniformity of the quality of texts that speak about the definition of obligations and the part-round work of the Croatian Parliament committee, to equate access to all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, some working bodies are extremely important or there are defined bodies of the Croatian Parliament that have an extremely high level of responsibility, such as the Anti-Corruption Council does not have the status of the working body of the Croatian Parliament at all, which is completely illogical. I think we should intervene here. And, of course, we propose that those procedural changes leading to simplification, reduction of deadlines, therefore to a higher level of logic in Parliament's functioning. One part of these remarks was also made by a representative of the Croatian Labourers at a session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, once again, there is a good and quality debate on the Committee on the Constitution which has decided and that it will go in this time and with thematic discussions and expert discussions with external experts so that we can get a text on the second reading with which the vast majority of us here will be satisfied. In this regard, we announce that the HNS Club will support this proposal and recommend it to the Proposer for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41717	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41718	I was hoping that the HNS club would not support this proposal from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which we can freely call the motion to abolish the opposition or opposition in the Croatian Parliament. Because what was in force for the SDP while HDZ was in power and also for Vice-President of the Parliament obviously shouldn't and should not apply to the current opposition. I'm not just talking about correcting an incorrect quote, I'm talking about replicas within the club, I'm talking about looking for a break, I'm talking about everything the Rules of Procedure has made possible. But I also remind you that what the Vice-President of the Parliament said a few minutes ago about parties that have or do not have 6% and which terrorise the majority in the Croatian Parliament, so may it not be an insult to all Croatian citizens and voters who voted for these parties and also to parties within the coalition who do not have those 6%? Like HSU, like HNS, like IDS. And should we simply remove all other political options from Croatia and declare the Rules of Procedure and the law that there is only HDZ and SDP in this country. Is that the intensity of this Rules of Procedure? In the end, what does this Rules of Procedure mean that we were working on in this session? The work of the Vice-President of the Parliament along with all the other vice-presidents of the Parliament that are not worth anything, which is absolutely nothing. And these aren't the tambourine jumps, they're the whites, they're the ones who work, they're the ones who get paid by the Rules of Procedure that don't apply, they give warnings on the Rules of Procedure that don't apply. And he's giving us all a lecture on how to behave in the Parliament. Look what you've been doing for the past four years in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41719	Thank you very much, colleague Vinkovic. Replica was a colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41720	I respect your right to very pytoretic and interesting remarks and, of course, to observe what we are talking about, but I think you are fundamentally wrong, so you did not agree with yourself in this replica now. How can you expect the HNS club to be against something that we're talking about here today when there's absolutely nothing you're talking about? So, you're polymizing with the SDP club's views that were presented in the debate on the proposal in the first reading. So you are not interested in what is being extended here by the Committee on the Constitution, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, which introduces a new committee without which we cannot operate in the EU, which introduces the obligation of the Prime Minister's Annual Report on State and Labour. So a whole series of very important changes that improve the work of the Croatian Parliament where there are no references to replicas, absolutely nowhere. So it's the position of a club like yours to do a replica doesn't need to be changed. So the promoter listens just as much to you as he listens to the other club. Why would you expect us to start against something that doesn't even say here? We will discuss this if it becomes an official proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure. Until then, what should we do for your account to pollute with colleagues from the SDP? Well, you won't be watching that movie. We grow some kind of communication and improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41721	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41722	Comrade Beus on the trail of your call for as little conflict as possible one means of resolving or preventing conflict is indeed a Rules of Procedure which you have called a catalogue of procedure. I would like to join this call for a reduction of the points of possible conflict in the Rules of Procedure itself, and I would therefore ask you to pay attention to the catalogue of the procedure in the case of opposition proposals in respect of the part of the deadlines within which the President of the Parliament has to make an opposition proposal in the procedure, when he has to put it on the agenda, within which period the Government has to give an opinion, within which period of time the working body has to discuss the proposal and within which a plenary debate has to be opened. If you wrote down the deadlines instead of the blanks, believe me, a series of points and reasons for the conflicts that exist so far, the verbal conflict, would cut even in half. And as for the role of working bodies, you have rightly warned about the indifference of some jurisdiction and all that, but there is another problem. On Friday, we are supplementing the agenda with 20 new agenda points and President-in-Office of the Parliament says we continue on Wednesday with a point that has just been updated on the agenda and I ask the committees to discuss the updated agenda points. If the committees were to be attended by ministers with the powers to answer, agreeing and accepting the proposal, half of my discussions would be lagging behind. Unfortunately, I only know one minister with whom it is worth discussing on the board because he is ready to say immediately on the board I accept that and what I have heard or we will correct us or we will accept your amendments and it has been done three times so far. After five minutes of discussion on the board. It's Minister Bauk. And when you have such a committee and such a minister on the board, then this debate takes two minutes to discuss that bill as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41723	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41724	When I spoke about the proposals made by a representative of the Croatian Labourers on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, I was referring to your proposals that you formulated there on deadlines because it is definitely logical. I can also tell you as an agent that I fully agree with all proposals that reduce the risk of conflict and that we are on the same wave duty, therefore, at the same frequency of understanding. It is definitely clear that the stable parliamentary majority has nothing to fear from the parliamentary minority and there is no need to show the muscles to any kind of artistic measures of extension or to act on certain indefinite deadlines, there is definitely no need and there you are right. If the opposition knew that her proposals would come quickly to the agenda, they would be discussed. Most of them probably won't accept them, but they'll give the legitimacy of the debate. Everything would probably be a lot simpler. I am, in that sense, a supporter of the approach that you advocate. But on the other hand, because of some technical solutions, the entire rules of procedure are to make a mockery and to claim that this is something that is anti-democratic that abolishs the right of the opposition to speak, that I'm not speaking any further is actually extremely irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41725	And Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41726	Mr. Beus, every MP is responsible for his word. Which is responsible, and which is irresponsible, is also your opinion. I take it as your opinion does not stand by authority because you represent yourself here in the Parliament as the representative represents himself. I completely agree with you, and we've already said that several times here our only speech is not our only one, and I think you're the only one who said that if I remember our main tool well or someone else, I'm sorry, but you said the same thing. You were talking about the risk of reducing the risk of conflict with the lack of speech in parliament will not reduce the risk of conflict but will increase. You did not advocate a reduction in speech, you did not advocate what your predecessor advocated, but I do not agree with you on this point you spoke of Article 127i where you said that it was actually the opposite of the letter of the law that the parliamentary bodies are imposing on ministers almost calling them to responsibility on committees. However, the spirit of this article is quite different and I fully agree with it because it says it is asking for reports and data from ministers and officials who manage the work of other authorities of the state administration, and they are required to provide information. How the committee will discuss how it will draw certain conclusions if there is no information. I don't think that formula bothers me that she's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41727	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41728	You are not correct, colleague Vuksic. So now you're quoting the first item of that article. He's not as controversial to me as he is to you. The second is said that, in addition to the report and the data referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, labour authorities may request and carry out certain actions within their jurisdiction from ministers and officials who operate the work of other authorities of the state administration. So what exactly does that mean? That tomorrow you're going to ask the Home Secretary to conduct the shop and listen over something or someone? So let's not go into action that can banalize the intention. There is no dispute that every minister and head of the body of the state administration is obliged and bound by the working body of the Croatian Parliament as well as the Assembly to provide all the requested information and all the requested information. If they are classified, it is known under what conditions it is done. But there is therefore no delay in responding in this way to the information and to all the necessary information that is necessary for both the parliamentary working body and the Parliament to make quality conclusions, to make good decisions and generally smart and quality works. But it's just that the board tells ministers what they have to do as special measures that we seem to have mixed up the pots a little bit. So this article consists of two paragraphs, 1st and I are not controversial either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41729	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41730	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, to reduce the uncertainty, I'm going to say right away at the start of the HDZ Club, it won't support this Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to try to explain why in my debate on behalf of the club. I would like to say something first to welcome the effort to draw up a new text of the Rules of Procedure. It is a very large and demanding job and since we have so far worked on the basis of Rules of Procedure and those famous changes and additions that have never been published, thus putting or leaving a questionable quality of calling on such a document that we were unable to publish in the NN either this is certainly a step forward and a step forward in the right direction because a whole series of improvements in relation to the current texts have been adopted in this Rules of Procedure. And I think that's fair to say, and that should be said because it is important to thank those who, within the framework of the parliamentary working bodies, have produced this text. However, like any text, this one suffers from some objections. Wanting to contribute to him being better than he is now, realizing the need to bring him along, forgive the expression in "a la wild" procedure to make all of this happen by July 1st and that we had a fat time to do it earlier. I'm going to try to suggest to the proposings what should be changed to make our Rules of Procedure better. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure speak of something that does not exist in the Croatian Constitution, except that it is not a constitutional category, and the question is how logical it is. Namely, it is about a representative in the Croatian Parliament and the elected representative in the Croatian Parliament. The constitution doesn't know the distinction between MPs and elected MPs, so then this whole legal acrobatic that's been done here doesn't make much sense. The promoter wanted to say that there is a representative who has verified his mandate and who has not yet done so. And then the one who has not done so requires that he resign or put his term of office at rest and must inform the President of the Parliament 24 hours before the start of a constitutive session at which he can verify his mandate. I must admit, logically, it sounds completely wrong to put into rest something that didn't begin to flow. So that is why, and this provision of the Rules of Procedure, that mandates are put on hold before they begin to run, before the Assembly is established I don't think they make any sense and he is being upgraded as a fundamental mistake in sharing MPs with those who have been elected and those who are not. That's what I'm talking about. In view of the importance of the subject, I believe that Articles 3 and 6 in this section should be amended in view of the constitutional constraints that the applicant must take into account. Of course, the mandate must be put into rest in the legal circumstances provided for when you verify it I doubt it is possible before that. One suggestion to the promoter we have suggested and previously not accepted is not an essential improvement in the text but perhaps because of the clarity and quality of work in the Assembly it would not be bad to accept. It's an article 40 that now speaks of the secretary and deputy secretary of parliament and then their assistants. We have a Secretary of Parliament who's actually the secretary of the Plenary session and he's taking care of that session. And I think it's better to call that deputy Secretary of the Plenary Session to avoid it if it stays as it is now that we have other high-ranking seats in Parliament's professional services, which is that we have assistant secretaries. Because I don't think that's the correct name or that job name, or in this case, even the duty points to what a man needs to do. I believe it would be even more fitting to the truth that the Parliament has if you haven't already taken solutions like the Government unnecessarily took to have a secretary-general because the government has no others but one secretary. Then at least there's a Secretary of Parliament in Parliament and his deputy secretary instead of the Vice Secretary of the Plenary Session, and then maybe that substituting them fit a lot more of that work that they're actually doing here. These are well-intentioned remarks for a service that won't mean too much to us, but I think even as far as the profession and system of the state administration are concerned, it's more correct. Now, there is something much less correct and what the promoter has brought here for the first time to the Rules of Procedure, I would not even say that it is a coward's egg because a difficult man here can manage, but I would say this even from the recent government experience of trying to completely change the relationship between the government and Parliament again. In fact, Article 119 of the new presentation of the Government to the Parliament will now paraphrasise that I am not reading the provisions, it is predicted that in the future when a single minister is appointed in the government, therefore not when the entire government is going to join the Parliament but when a single minister is appointed not to be discussed at the plenary session. Instead, the debate on the candidate is being held in the working body of the Assembly, in which the issues raised by the central authority of the state administration whose candidate is proposed to appoint as set out in the current proposal for a Rules of Procedure. It is a avoidance of Parliament's basic almost function to decide at the plenary session on members of the Government, if you want their programmes, on the quality of their professional work or on the characteristics of each individual member of the Government that is proposed to be appointed and to be voted on on by the vote of confidence. That this matter is additionally not systematic if you want it to be the fact that when it comes to voting on the confidence of a single minister then a debate will be held at a plenary session, so someone who is already in his term. But when he first enters the post, then, as was now a practice and what was in the final line of Parliament's function to decide on the members of the government in order to prevent a debate on a particular candidate, he will no longer be decided at the plenary session through the debate, but the debate will be held on a particular working body that is so to say in the jurisdiction of his future duties, and the plenary session will be held only by the vote. This is a shameful provision pushed into the Rules of Procedure probably based on the latest discussions on ministers, individual ministers proposed by the current government and which they took I would say a lot of time and debates in this house. Nothing bad happened to them, but I believe it was good for both us and the public to hear who this is about and what qualifications and qualities these people come to. Given the weather, I'm gonna have to hurry up and comment further. What we find also unacceptable, and this is another newspaper in this Rules of Procedure, is Article 128, where the Prime Minister is said once a year at the beginning of the second regular session of the Parliament orally presents the Parliament with an annual report on the work of the Government and the state of the state in the country. If we have a good interpretation, the second regular session of the Parliament is the fall session that begins from 15.9. We do not understand how, within that time, the Prime Minister will be able to present to the Parliament an annual report, possibly a half-yearly report, and it is even less acceptable for him to speak except for the government's work and the state of the country which has so far been a feature of the presidential or semi-presidential systems and it is highly unacceptable that in one parliamentary system such power and such an opportunity is given to the Prime Minister, and that it cannot be replicated and that in the discussions on how you have further elaborated it cannot be replicated by that Prime Minister. Furthermore, Article 137. So we're going to talk here, given that it's a new text and some things that you believe have already come to life so that they don't need to be commented on. What has caused a lot of objections to this time by opposition MPs so far is Article 137, which says the answer to the government's question can generally last up to 4 minutes. That rule is a sacred rule and so far it has been used exclusively that rule that each time a representative of the government answers a four-minute question. We even had the opportunity to hear that the government purposely wanted to use all the time allowed, although they had nothing to say by their own admission. We therefore propose and we will certainly propose this in the form of amendments when the time comes, that the answer to the asked question should be given as a rule for 2 minutes, and only exceptionally for some precisely established reasons that it may be longer. The 255th article speaks of voting. The general public vote shall be held by electronic vote. Since this rule has not yet come to life, if we hadn't welcomed it, it might be better to vote manually, by raising your hands as it is also one of the options, and only when the technical conditions allow it in another way. And what's also important to emphasize, it's another law reading. The second reading of the law as a final proposal shall be submitted within 6 months of the date of adoption of the bill, at the session of the Assembly. We are also witnessing the law on the co-operation of the Parliament and the Government, and so on this Rules of Procedure, that we will receive the law in two readings during the same session within 15 days. And on the other hand, if you run out of 6 months without proposing a law for a second reading, you'll have to repeat the first reading procedure. Experience teaches us that these sessions of ours are kind of extending, that we will come to a session of one for more than six months, and then the question of the logic of such a provision is raised. It would probably be more correct to enter the Rules of Procedure if the same session could not be passed in two readings. And finally, we also support the proposal of what has already been said before, that a provision is put in place when setting the agenda that it cannot be complemented by the agenda with new points until the established agendas are exhausted, i.e. the points entered in the agenda. With such proposals, if the Proposer would accept it, we would be in favour of such a Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41731	Thank you. And now we're going to the replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41732	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Well, a colleague of the Mlakars actually very justifiably pointed out two moments that I would refer to. The first is that Article 119 introduces two types of ministers. One type of minister is the one who, therefore, is elected, discussed in the plenary system and another type of minister is the one who is subsequently elected where in the chamber atmosphere of a committee it is estimated whether someone is like him, is not like him or her, and then simply votes there. This is whatever we say about it and however we express the reduction of democracy on the one hand, and on the other hand I repeat the introduction of two types of ministers by two different criteria. And the second phenomenon that absolutely gives me the right to claim when I look at this Rules of Procedure, especially in the context and the proposal for a law that we have just discussed before the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European Affairs that actually wants to inaugurate the office system in Croatia. Because Article 128, where the Prime Minister will talk about the state of the country and the nation, is a feature of presidential, possibly semi-presidential systems. And it's clear to me that probably the current Prime Minister thinks he's Obama or De Gaulle, but that's not the case, neither are we in the presidential and semi-presidential system but in the parliamentary system. And it seems to me that no matter which party they're supposed to be in, they're all supposed to understand and support it in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41733	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41734	Dear Vice President, what we're talking about here has forced me to replicate for you. There is no system in this Rules of Procedure, and in its application we have seen how many times it has been bad and difficult to interpret a provision. This raises the question of what is the difference between the Minister who goes to the appointment together with the entire Government when the debate is being held on both the Government's programme and each article or when a single member of the Government is subsequently appointed. They, according to the Constitution, are all members of the Government with equal obligations and responsibilities and are therefore responsible to this Parliament. In this way, again somewhere I say it can read the manuscripts of our government and in documents concerning only Parliament, which is not responsible for the government to discuss at a plenary session about a member that they are relatively often changing, until these flying changes occur, and then instead of a plenary session, it would be more convenient for their appointment to be carried out and discussed on board. The public won't know anything about it anyway, and then at the plenary session, the hand-lifting will be confirmed or eventually not confirmed by any of these places. That you do not have a system or this proposal, I have also illustrated that when it is voted on at Parliament's request, there is then a debate is being held before this House, and it is not being transferred to some kind of Committee on Agriculture or Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links but is being discussed at the plenary session and discussed on the trust of each individual member of the Government. This should also be the case when they are named without such tricks in making a new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41735	Replica, Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41736	Dear colleague Mlakar, that I must confess I myself had doubts about this article 3 and Article 6 But I think you should read them in good faith, because really when a constitutive session is called upon, who is it? Representatives are being called. But they are de facto not yet MPs until their mandates have been verified and their oaths have been taken. Here we have an inter-term that the proposer is now seeking to appoint, trying to find his name as the President of the Republic when he was elected, when the State Election Commission declares who the elected new president is de facto not yet president until he takes the oath. And he has, acquires the right to some title of elected president while the president who lost the election has the right to his title as president probably for life, but at least until he gives his duty to another. I agree with you that you can't resign on something that hasn't begun to flow yet. In this respect, it may be necessary to amend this Article 6 and, therefore, it says that the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall submit reports to the Assembly on the elections carried out for the Assembly and the names. I agree with the elected MPs on the intention to submit the resignations because they cannot be notified of the resignation otherwise which... This may remain on non-compatible duties and also on the decision to hold the mandate. We might avoid this illogicality, but we'd more importantly specify that one internal regreem to call it that, that status of counsel and sleep. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're not MPs yet, but they've already been elected, and then we'd have found I think a good expression, I think it's a good proposal's effort, a good expression to mark this period and to make things clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41737	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41738	Dear Vice President, you see that we are going to get a little closer and closer in our positions even when you're using the replica to agree with me. But what I don't agree with you is the fact that these have been elected, and if you want unselected MPs, only they have not begun to take office. They went to the election, and by then it's known they're MPs. My objection is, so I don't have the courage like you do right now from the bench to change that provision of the Rules of Procedure and say that it should read, but since we have two readings, there will be plenty of time. I think the elected representative, regardless of what is thought, is not a legal term that should be used here, but should be used by the sole term representative, and the barbarics of his rights and obligations only as regards the use of the mandate. We agree that you can't put into rest something that hasn't even started to flow, and when we find out that when you verify the mandate and then put it in place we'll solve these I'd say technical inconsistencies or inaccuracies. No one has reported here to complain to the rulings about some kind of writing, but I simply don't think this is correct, and in the future it will only cause problems. So here's how you replicated that you're getting along, and I agree with you, and we can do it significantly better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41739	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41740	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Mlakar, here I refer to Article 119 and this provision, which in its section is a newspaper, and reminds me of yesterday's VAT Act where the same product has two rates so that we have the same ministers or the same government here, and two different appointments. I don't think it contributes to how it is often said here today to the dignity or better perception of the work of this House and that it simply needs to be arranged in a way or to add or delete this in paragraph 10 without debate, to discuss it anyway, and then let that minister go to those bodies, ask him what he wants. Because we had one last time, and I think that this provision came from the appointment of a Minister of Tourism, which took six hours to discuss. And it lasted for six hours because first it was a controversial way that such a candidate came into existence at all, today I already said that it seemed to me from these daily newspapers and from the media that we came to the candidate for Minister of Tourism in a way that two party presidents were texting each other. That candidate here didn't even get the right to speak. So he's not allowed to answer questions. And of course, in the situation that we now have in the Rules of Procedure's proposal that such a minister should be discussed by 13 parliamentary deputies on a committee plus outsiders who have no right to vote, and that all 151 or most in the Assembly should vote on it simply gives the impression that it is not logical and that it cannot go that way. I think any minister who doesn't have the support or who hears what most parliamentary deputies are thinking, who want to discuss it, already at the beginning, has a certain minus. I think the Minister of Tourism has heard everything he needed and here we hear about him today that he is a very good minister and that our tourist season is the best boredom, although that's exactly what I think it is. But good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41741	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41742	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, here's a chance for you to tell me maybe a few more minutes about something because on behalf of the club, I had to narrow it down. In what way can someone allow the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to change constitutional solutions and tell us that this is a good or quality solution? So, I will quote as the President of the Parliament usually says because of the Croatian public: "I will present the programme to the Croatian Parliament immediately after the formation of the Government and no later than 30 days after the adoption of the mandate, the mandater is obliged to present the programme to the Croatian Parliament and to request a vote of confidence." And now all of a sudden these occasional members of the government who are called an individual member, when a single member of the government is appointed, then this constitutional rule is not valid. And instead of discussing the quality of a person here in this House, if you want his programme, his CV, everything that should be available to the public and Parliament when he finalises the Government we have now transferred it to a committee of 7 or 15 members, half of them may not come to the session and most of the votes will vote instead of the Croatian Parliament, and it says to you in the Constitution, whoever wrote this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, instead of the Croatian Parliament, some committee will discuss the individual minister who came later. And now it will happen that we will probably eventually have all the individual ministers later because everyone and the government will be much more accountable to be appointed later, that they will not be discussed at the plenary session at all. So you're going to have pro-government for the first seven days, and then we're going to be changing through the parliamentary committees with 20 new ones. This is a disastrous provision and further humiliation of Parliament. We suggest you delete it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41743	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41744	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said it was to avoid talking about individual ministers, this situation you've just mentioned. To be honest, I don't think that's what it is, but to avoid the situation that we had a few months ago when the tourism minister came and when the government and the prime minister had criticism. He was not sorry for the minister, because the final criticism and was not addressed to him was directed to the government and government policy. The prime minister does not want to come to the Parliament and listen to the government's criticism. What the Prime Minister wants according to this Rules of Procedure, he wants to stand in front of the flag and coat of arms once in a year and maintain something called the state of the nation in America. So, say something about the state of the nation that we won't be able to replicate, object to. It's just a sacred letter that the Chancellor said and nothing else. That's what this Rules of Procedure says. The Rules of Procedure were made for the needs of the government. I would have a friendly advice for power, the government would become a relatively quick opposition, all of what you're writing in there right now will be a lot of trouble to you as we all were bothered by what was in the Rules of Procedure written by HDZ. The opposition bothered us all. So try to see a little from that perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41745	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41746	Dear colleague Vuljanić disagreed with you in one part of the interpretation of Article 128 at least not as he writes today. But you're right, what authority such as the draft Rules of Procedure. Namely, this Prime Minister who will come to this ex-Catedra to give us a state-of-the-art speech in the country and thereby take over attributes the sovereign will talk about the government's annual report in half a year. It's mathematically quite difficult to understand, and logically it's completely incomprehensible. So at the start of the fall session, they're going to talk about the whole year, but they're going to be working for the government for six months. The team is more caricature to introduce these solutions into the Rules of Procedure, if anyone wanted to give such prerogatives to the Prime Minister in the first place, that what you said as sovereign relations with your regiment, it would probably care as a possibility already in the Constitution. To change the Constitution in a way that you can attribute to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the appointments under the cereals or in some working bodies, and then the MPs or speeches about the state of the state in the state to which the Prime Minister has never had the right to just talk about what we've already talked about today, and that is the relationship between Parliament and the Government, and it seems more and more like we're responding to the government and we're going to arrange all of our acts so that we can be subject and accountable to the government without being vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41747	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41748	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So I would just like to remind myself in my statement that by last amending the Rules of Procedure in July 2012 that amendments were then rejected and amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSU in the way that this was then explained because they were not discussed because the proposals had been promised to be implemented in the second phase or when it was referred to in the procedure of the law which would define the relations of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning European issues. Since in the procedure in the first reading of the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs and the Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this is in the procedure and the proposals I have made earlier have not been implemented I will make my remarks, the remarks that I then made on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSU because I believe that they should be resolved. Specific comments are made to the current article in Proposal 83 of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, which has a first position identical to all committees or sub-assemblies here is a lot of excess. Excess is housing policy, excess rights are persons with disabilities, work space editing, editing and development of a system of bilateral and tripartite social dialogue and protection of the rights of former political prisoners. I propose that it be brief and precise, that the bases be arranged as follows to vote in areas relating to employment, work and equal status of employees in the public and private sectors, the 2nd subparagraph of pension insurance, the 3rd subparagraph of protection at work and the 4th subparagraph of social dialogue and social partnership. This is much more accurate and does not allow arbitrary interpretation. The following primary task of the Labour Committee is the working legal status of employees, employment, labour protection and the promotion of social dialogue and partnership and pension insurance. All because we have different species, multiple species. Since in the section of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of Housing, that is, housing is an integral part of the construction of housing policy that cannot be dealt with by this committee, this is no longer the case because they no longer exist. Social housing. In fact, only the indirect Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership can discuss housing in such a way as how many workers are employed in construction, whether they are covered by a collective contract, whether they are secured means of protection at work, whether a worker can buy an apartment from his salary during his working life, etc. This can also be discussed. However, it is not the core competence of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Then we have the right of persons with disabilities who are otherwise specified in the section of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and therefore do not belong in the section of this committee. Namely, only those rights arising from the labour-legal relationship of labour-legal status, e.g. the position of disabled workers, the professional rehabilitation, the right to disabled property are from the Committee's section, which is why it is inappropriate and discriminatory to specifically single out the rights of persons with disabilities because we do not, for example, single out women or men's rights. All labour and pension rights shall apply equally to all persons. Unfortunately, however, most of the rights of persons with disabilities are derived from the welfare system as shown in the Ombudsman’s work reports for people with disabilities. It is therefore necessary to take part in the Committee on Health and Social Care, or the Committee on Human Rights, on the part of the Committee on Human Rights. In accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, discrimination is prohibited on the basis of health conditions and disability. I therefore believe that labour rights or labour rights should not, for example, be prescribed. protection of women at work, rights of persons with disabilities and others. Rights arising from working legal status apply equally to all employees while other rights of persons with disabilities who are not employed are regulated in the welfare system. Furthermore, protection at work is an integral part of the organisation of work and it is necessary to ensure that workers are able to work safely in accordance with the Labour Protection Act. It is therefore not on the working body to edit the work space. Also, the working body cannot edit and develop a system of bilateral or tripartite social dialogue. The labour law of Article 285, the Labour Act provides for the possibility of establishing an economic social council and is established by the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, trade unions and employers' associations. Activity is based on the idea of tripartite cooperation to address economic, social problems and represents the highest level of tripartite social dialogue. Therefore, the parliamentary body cannot regulate the relationship between the parties governed by their agreement. Since the tripartite social dialogue is institutionalised, it cannot or should not be regulated by the working body. The Committee on Labour is responsible for legislative solutions, issues governing, for example, the representation of union associations in tripartite bodies. I therefore believe that the social partnership, social dialogue or relationship between the union and the employer is important for the committee, which is more so because the collective contract is a specific contract of labour law concluded by the interested representatives of workers and employers. And the intensity of the Labour Act is to regulate minimum terms by law while the real level of law and obligations would be regulated by social partners through collective agreements. When it comes to the protection of the rights of former political prisoners standing within the scope of this Committee, I am of the opinion that the Committee on War Veterans is responsible for the protection of all victims of totalitarian regimes, it writes to him in part-time work, and the Committee on Work as well as in previous cases of pension insurance and possibly working status. We further have our comments on Article 87, and we propose to delete the work of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports in the section of Article 87, and we propose to delete the sub-items of women's protection at work, the protection of women at work. The protection at work is stated, the opposite of the law on gender equality makes a gender difference. The rules on equal protection at work have all workers regardless of gender. We further have objections to Article 48(1), just a moment, Article 48(1), all working bodies have one vice-president, only one working body of the European Affairs Committee has two vice-presidents. It would therefore be useful to write, in Article 48(1), only to add the following words, to the President of the Working Body, which there are several vice-presidents to determine which of the vice-presidents will replace in the event of his prevention or absence. This is the only case and should not be generalised as is generalised in Article 48. Therefore, we have objections to Article 52 which states that the working body of the Assembly may include scientific and other organisations and individual experts in the preparation of acts or considering a particular issue from its part-round if financial resources are provided to it and may propose to the Government that these transactions be entrusted to the ministries and other state administration bodies. This has already been defined in a way that is not chargeable in Article 57 because I think it's quite, quite enough, because I don't think we've brought any of that strategic commitment that we're going to hire experts and we're going to provide a wake-up call for such a thing that they're making bill proposals for us. So we propose to delete the whole of Article 52. In Article 57, too, excuse me, in Article 57, and others, and other professional staff, I would ask that terminology be harmonised, the employees, the termology of military personnel, we have civil servants, we have civil servants, we have workers, we have professionals, experts or professionals, we do not have to add employees. We also have an objection to Article 41(3) in which it is questionable from a moral point of view or point of view at the time when salaries are cut to officials, workers, we have here a salary increase, i.e. a coefficient for the secretary and deputy secretary while all government and public servants are cut by wages with an explanation that there is no money. If it's necessary, but someone needs to explain why, why we're doing it. What I would also specifically refer to is Article 29. We have some hybrid clubs here and they're not scheduled for this Rules of Procedure. Namely, the Rules of Procedure do not know the difference between an independent representative, a representative who has been elected as a non-party member on the party list and does not know the representative selected on the independent list, or on the citizens list. I must admit that I am pleasantly surprised by the ease some people today set up clubs in the Croatian Parliament, I couldn't do it in 2009. The intruder doesn't understand. I'm not that, it's not the water at the mill, it's the need to really fix it. It wasn't good even then, it's not good now because it doesn't cover some of the things that happened in the meantime. The need to act through the club in Parliament always exists, however, my colleague Lesar and I couldn't, I was the president of a party and a party member and a party representative, he as a non-party and Mr Horvat couldn't start a club because the secretary said he couldn't, he doesn't write in his Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not write today, but there is a Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and the Croatian Civil Party, then there is a Club of Independent Representatives Furi Radin and IDS. I don't know by what rule it is and here are two steps still taken in liberalisation and I don't know how a minority representative, a man elected on a minority list can be suddenly independent and a member of the club. He as a minority representative may be a member of the IDS club and there is no dilemma, but the club can't be called the Furia Radina and IDS Independent Representative Club. Incompatible and non-resistance in Article 29. So I have nothing against liberalisation, I don't mind that the MPs in this assembly, we have an independent representative, Damir Cain, and representatives elected from an independent list, so a small small difference, which is least controversial in this case. So I've got nothing against liberalisation, I'm just asking that dissent to the Rules of Procedure and we say in the future it's going to be so that we have a cover for what we have. I, above all, advocates have working conditions, among other things, that they have a club, that they can perform on behalf of the club, and I think it's a good thing, but let's not let them be harassers of spring, and spring didn't bring us that news. Therefore, I think that should have already been included in this Rules of Procedure proposal. Of course, since the Rules of Procedure gave the frameworks for those other purposes that my predecessors have discussed here, regulating relations with the Parliament, according to the Committee on European Affairs, the HSU Club will support this in the first reading, but please pay particular attention to these remarks because we think that they are constructive and contribute to improving the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which we care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41749	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit, Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41750	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I listened very carefully to your debate and you only encouraged me in one part of it, so here I came at the end, when you said about these indifferences of Article 29 at the establishment of club representatives. Well, I think there's a lot of illogicality in politics, so your debate reminded me of the situation in the Osijek elections where the independent candidate won. Now I'm talking about the purpose and meaning of the law that we're making. An independent candidate who is dependent on the three political parties: SDP, HNS and HSU and who has all parties from left to right of the SDP, HDZ, HSU, HNS, Labourists, all together on hand and then raises the question of the purpose of holding elections and what is independent if the party's independent political party participates in the campaign. So what's the point of our laws? If he's independent then he's independent and he doesn't depend on anyone, then he depends. Then we need to change the law and figure out which way our voters shouldn't be fooled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41751	Thank you, too. We've got an answer for you. Come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41752	I mean, there's a similarity to what you said with what I was saying, but there's still someone here who's pre-declared what he's said and signed up when he was teaching a list of what his status is. Here it was not the case, there were later created clubs based on something that is living matter, which happens in the Croatian Parliament it will happen in the future. Therefore, I think it is better to regulate that distinction between an independent representative, the elected representative because he no longer agrees with his party and becomes an independent representative, a representative elected from the list of citizens, okay, and a non-party representative from the party that entered. They're about tiny differences, but they're very important. I'm saying it's very precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41753	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat. Here's my colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41754	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. It is quite understandable and justifiable and logical to change the Rules of Procedure if we know we are entering the European Union, so it is probably one of the basic conditions for redefinition and a major amendment to this Rules of Procedure. It has been said that it is also necessary to regulate the co-operation of the Parliament and the Government in the field of European affairs and, of course, to define the enhanced control of the Parliament over the government's activities in the institutions of the European Union. These are completely acceptable reasons for us, and we think it's a good thing that these changes are going to go into two readings. Anyway, it's a serious matter. It is good to discuss the way we work in the Parliament, and at the same time it is good for the public to know through these discussions what will be waiting for us when we join the EU. So, very soon a date. I will say in principle a few of our views on this whole thing and then I will move on to a concrete analysis of some of the provisions of this proposal in order to improve them. In principle, we think that Croatia's entry into the EU is changing and reducing the role of the parliament and increasing the role of the government. Secondly, we think that the Committee on European Affairs will become the central body for the implementation of European affairs in the Assembly. And the third thing that we think is important, so part of the legislative activity of the Parliament is being transferred to the government. The government is sending legislative proposals from the EU as well as its views to the Parliament, and the parliament sends its opinion to the government within a certain period of time. So it's kind of a working principle that will be in future time. We therefore believe that it is very important for us in principle to make it very important for the Government to deliver all legislative proposals to the Parliament, of course, and other acts on its work in the European institutions, and to prescribe and set deadlines for the Parliament to monitor and monitor the activities of the Government in the EU Council. The Council should deliver binding opinions to the Government through the EU Affairs Committee. The Parliament should also define in some way its own system of government oversight. Among other things, these provisions have been installed by other EU members. I would specifically like to say something about certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The adoption of the annual work plan and the establishment of the agenda of Article 38 on this matter should be complemented by a new indent, which provides for the establishment of the annual plan of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the section of the Bureau of Parliament and the president of the Clubs of Representatives. It is therefore necessary to establish the days of the plenary session, since it is otherwise the practice of the parliaments of most countries. The second item on the agenda of the session should also be regulated that the established agenda is valid for the whole week of the session and that, as a rule, it cannot be changed as it has been practice so far since the addition of the agenda is done anyway at the end of the working week, so on Fridays. So it's very important for us to sort out this way of working in the Parliament. The second thing is an article in 119 that has already been mentioned here, the appointment of new ministers. In determining the new minister on him, according to a proposal for this text, it will only be discussed on the parent board, but also there the minister, therefore the minister will not have to answer the question of the MPs while at the plenary session of the parliament on the new minister will only be voted without debate. Of course, it is good that committees have the opportunity to discuss the newly appointed minister, but we think it is also important to allow the plenary session of the Parliament to discuss the new appointment of the minister bar at the level of representatives' clubs. We think that if this does not happen, then it is collapsing, one of the basic functions of this Parliament is being questioned to discuss ministers as executives. And we don't think there's any need for these executives to be afraid of any public assessment or public issues in this House. Otherwise, we have difficulty communicating with individual executives when it comes to the relation of parliamentary representative and individual ministries, we have difficult communication and in relation of parliamentary representatives and directors, i.e. directors of public institutions, public companies. If we also degrade this possibility of discussing certain people in the House then we are bringing ourselves into an even more unfavourable position than the executive government. It is good in Article 128. The government's annual report that it is submitted once a year, but it is also unclear why there is no possibility that, according to this report, parliamentary deputies should be openly and clearly asked questions to the Prime Minister about the report, about the elements of the report that are presented annually. There's been a conversation here about impellation. Interpletion deadlines are extended from 8 to 15 days for each of those three necessary steps, and are then stated that the request for interpretation is included in the agenda at the first next session. This, when calculated in some time frames in the dates, means that it will wait from 4 to 6 months for the interpretation and then it is set and the purpose is to ask the question of the purpose of setting an interpretation if it will be discussed through such defined deadlines after six months. Article 196 refers to the way in which the amendments are submitted. The proposal is that amendments may also be submitted to articles which are not covered by the amendments to the laws, of course, if the amendments relate to the provisions of the law amending or supplementing them and in their own nature are such that they correspond in substance to the amendments to the amendments to the proposed amendments and amendments. We think that this is a good solution to giving intervention and changes to the current provisions of the law, not only to discuss proposed amendments and additions, as has been the case so far. So this allows it to intervene in the content of the entire legal text. This is very important because this is likely to be about an EU law package. An emergency procedure, Article 202, is proposed to be decided on the application of an emergency procedure only if the representative makes an application for an emergency procedure. Otherwise, it will be considered that a proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted and this is not a good solution for us. That's a negative definition. So if we don't object then it'll be an emergency procedure. The emergency procedure is a matter to be avoided if we want to develop some level of parliamentaryism, we need to enable a level of public debate, a broad public debate, and this is not achieved by an emergency procedure. That's why we think we need to turn this thing around, not as defined in Article 204. I would also like to say something here about article 66 addressed to the Committee on European Affairs. Article 66 states that the Committee on European Affairs will have a president, two vice-presidents and 14 members, and another 6 members are appointed from the public, scientific and professional staff. We here in front of the national minority club think that the board is too important, the job is too important and that it should be defined in this 14-member quota to define the presence of one representative of the national minority club. And in that sense, we will submit the amendment. And last thing, that's Article 67. The Committee on Foreign Policy, we think that in the first paragraph behind paragraph 1, a sentence should be added to follow and consider issues related to the EU's common foreign security policy and to the common security and defence policy. We also think that indent 2 should be complemented, and it will read: "Cooperate with the relevant provisions of other countries' committees and participate in EU interparliamentary cooperation particularly in the field of common foreign and security policy and common security and defence policy." It's a supplement and that text should look like this. And the third indent that we propose should be inserted as the fourth indent is that it also participates in interparliamentary supervision of the common foreign and security policy of affairs and in the common security and defence policy, taking part in meetings of the EU Interparliamentary Conference together with representatives of the Defence Committee or other committees. Why do we say that? In fact, this is the Committee on Foreign Policy, I have assessed that this should be introduced because, on the basis of the experiences of the current EU Member States, the central role in the supervisory process is played by committees on the European affairs of national parliaments acting on behalf of the entire Parliament and is a central place for coordination and inclusion of other working bodies. In most Member States, however, the tasks of monitoring and overseeing the government's activities are in the area of the EU's common foreign and security policy and of the EU's common security and defence policy within the competence of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Parliaments. Once Croatia becomes a member of the EU, of course, takes on new commitments, and thus the Committee on Foreign Policy gets new responsibilities and therefore it is necessary to change the competence and number of members of the Committee on Foreign Policy as well as the number of advisers in the secretariat of the Committee. In fact, it is proposed that 13 members be with the president and vice president instead of 11 members. These are our proposals in terms of improving this text and we expect that part of this will be appreciated and that in the second reading we will be able to conclude that we have one complete Rules of Procedure for the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41755	Thank you, too. He has Vice President Zeljko Reiner on your line. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41756	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I can agree with you eventually when you said that the Parliament should give binding instructions to the Government, but I'm afraid you've overlooked the fact that the whole intensity of this Rules of Procedure is the same as the law that we discussed earlier is quite the opposite. to ensure the government's domination over the Parliament. Therefore, I fear that your proposal will certainly not be accepted by those who put it together. However, I could not agree with you that the issue of relations with the EU has been well resolved in this Rules of Procedure because if we look at it quantitatively, and I have already talked about it in the morning, out of practically 300 articles of exactly 296 articles only 10, including several formal articles, are dedicated to relations with the EU, and that is exactly what we have indicated throughout the morning that this is not good and certainly not enough. Therefore, I fear that some of the wishes that you have expressed will not be found in the final text of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41757	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41758	Thank you. Well, a colleague in any case, it's a good thing we're going to another reading. That is why we said that this first reading should be the first filter of these suggestions, and I hope that the promoter will respect what we have said and that through further solutions in this proposal in this Rules of Procedure we will nevertheless put the relationship between the Parliament and the Government in the way that it should be and as the parliamentary representatives expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41759	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the debate will be shared by Josip Salapic and Zoran Vinkovic. Here's your colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41760	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. My colleague Vinkovic gave me seven minutes, says I'm the one who's gonna light up whatever that means. I don't know, but here's the HDSSB club in this proposal for a Rules of Procedure we primarily support the intention of making the Rules of Procedure one of our most important tools in the hands of MPs and advocates more democratic, accessible and understandable. We have seen in this consolidated text which has not been published in the National Journal which we now use to have a lot of misunderstandings and that many of us fellow MPs do not agree in this Rules of Procedure so that various interpretations are often wrongly not authentic, so it is not known by which article of the law which means what it does not mean, and in any case because of the greater efficiency of the work of the Croatian Parliament we support that the Rules of Procedure must be primarily understood and useful in the daily representation work. In that part of the Croatian Parliament's relationship with the government of the Republic of Croatia in the context of Croatia's entry into the EU, I spoke on behalf of the HDSSB club about that morning's debate on the law, so here's to not repeat it. What bothers us in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are some illogicalities about the article of the proposal 119, 128 and 129. In Article 119, when a proposal for appointment of Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is debated, we do not support this proposal that the Croatian Parliament is not discussing this proposal because then the presentation of the Minister and why parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia, why the government stems from the majority in the Croatian Parliament if we MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament will not discuss this proposal, even if it is critical or critical of something, because we believe that a quality debate without quality opposition and criticism will not give anything bad but can only improve the quality of government and individual minister's work. So the questions not to discuss it and the questions that the person who is a candidate for a minister who has not yet received the support of the majority in the Assembly may answer questions asked by MPs in their debates, without having to hold a debate on it and that he may answer the questions asked by him, I think it should be thrown out of the Rules of Procedure, because then there should be more candidates in this regard, and then we will ask questions to the candidates and we will decide which is the best candidate. So the candidate for the minister is always just a candidate, not a minister. That will be decided by the Parliament with the majority vote, so that is what we believe should be cast out. This report by the Prime Minister to the Croatian Parliament on the state of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, that is something we have proposed as a club and in some previous discussions on some laws. We believe that this is good, that it is necessary and good for this very reason that the prime minister and the government have received the support of the majority after the democratic elections following the decision of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia on whom they trust. So most in the Croatian Parliament we think it is good and necessary but what is bad intention is positive and we can support it. What is not good is that we are not going to discuss it but will only speak to the representatives of the clubs then already, in advance, one intention that is good is known to be that the club of the majority SDP and the HNS coalition speak positively about the prime minister's report, that the opposition will be critical in some parts of the economy, finance, no investment, no new jobs as already the situation is, unfortunately, the way it is in Croatia. So it's all about knowing what direction the debate is going to go, and then if there's no debate, there's just clubs, then there's no point in losing any sense. It's just some kind of recital that someone's going to read and say key and critical points and there's nothing about it. We believe that we should remain in the Rules of Procedure but certainly keep the debate because any debate, even if it is different from expectations, contributes to greater democracy in the Parliament, and we are also a country that will enter the EU in a week's time, why not if there is a need for criticism by the prime minister and the Prime Minister of the Parliament, because some positive solution can also be created which will contribute to the political meaning and political work of the Republic of Croatia. So that's something we can say that intention is good. That's what we're proposing, but this should be left behind but to throw out that there's no argument that it doesn't make sense if it stays this way. As for expanding the work of the Legislative Committee, it is logical and in terms of different tasks put before the Committee when Croatia becomes a member of the EU within a week, it is a solution that we support. The Committee on the Economy, too. on the issue of the role of the Committee on European Affairs, we have already said, so this is the first reading and the Rules of Procedure and the law we discussed in the morning, it is necessary to make such mechanisms that, indeed, with its expertise and competence without this part, which is part of the business provision of how many board members there are and how it agrees with political representation in the Assembly. we believe that this should be extended to professional people and to people who are engaged in European law and thus give greater weight if we have already decided on this way of working on the committee. But it is certainly necessary to give a binding role for the Assembly to commit both the Committee on European Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to decisions concerning the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the EU institutions. This change is that one third of the representatives in the establishment of the Croatian Parliament after the elections propose working bodies and what so far belonged to the part-round club representatives we consider it to be nomotechnically logical because we have representatives' clubs until the Croatian Parliament is established. As regards the different solutions to the issue of amending and supplementing the laws and amendments to the proposed legal texts, these amendments and additions if they are extensive, it is good to go into the final text of the law because this will give us a better quality law. Also, this exception to amendments that have so far been completely different so that amendments can be given to amendments and amendments to the laws that have not been proposed by the Government, we also consider it good. Sometimes something happens to miss out on the proposal so that we, as MPs and club representatives, can react in time and propose an amendment that is not a proposal to amend and supplement. Here's so much in this section, my colleague Vinkovic will move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41761	Thank you. Here's where my esteemed colleague was. I'm nice today that we here in a crowded assembly are discussing the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, really nice. It's just a question of what kind of rules of procedure we're working on? Do you know Mr. Vice President? Look, we haven't been working on this for a year and a half. We certainly don't work for him because he's invalid, but we do. So there should be a responsible question of why then the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, chairing this session, does not work according to the current Rules of Procedure. As far as this Rules of Procedure is concerned, we can call it freely, and above all I will say that this Rules of Procedure should be reached by agreement, not to mention the word consensus of all political parties here. So, both positions and opposition because those who are in position today may already be the opposition the next day, and the current opposition may already be the position the next day. Well, the Rules of Procedure should also be seen from this perspective in a way that works in the Croatian Parliament is as high as possible. This is how the proposed Rules of Procedure can be called freely by the HDSSB club in this first reading, regardless of the specific intentions that exist in this Rules of Procedure and which are prescribed from one valid and one invalid, from one of the Seksov and from one I do not know who wrote it, because I will not be able to fully support this text of the Rules of Procedure and we can freely call it the motion to abolish the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, or the possibility of the opposition to discuss certain topics. Especially here during today's debate, it was a little bit and difficult to hear, and I find that it offends practically all political options, even positions and oppositions that are not as said by the vice-president of the 6% Parliament, and I don't know what he's lamentated there are offended and national minorities or parties, political parties that don't have 6% at national level. And obviously, we cannot create from Croatia a model that is the United States, which is likely to be practiced in Germany, etc. But on the side, so I'm going to try on a few of the examples that here is touched by my predecessor and colleague Salapic. This is primarily this extremely nicely written article 119, where practically the Government appoints or replaces one of the ministers or members of the Government, and the Croatian Parliament has the only possible function of raising hands for or leaving it down so as to be restrained since we do not have these highly paid voting systems or to stay or be normal for. So there's no debate about the new minister. The only debate is being held on the board, and the committee that is the decoration of democracy in this House, because no matter what the committee's position is, the majority, or the position, has the majority so that the Committee's proposals rarely or never, regardless of what the Croatian Parliament's parent bodies are, the majority in the Croatian Parliament, and so it was before the HDZ colleagues, it is not the newspaper of this democracy now, but it has been so before, there is no opportunity, therefore, to influence and bring the opinion that should be. There is even more beautifully written articles 128, 129 and 130 where I do not practically claim that this can happen, but this is very much the case in the democracies in which most and minority relations are potentially strained. I don't mean throwing away those counseling bags, hitting or I don't know what. But, dear God, the picture is from other parliaments, even those who have a highly developed democracy, where you speak to the Prime Minister who is once a year here in the Croatian Parliament, talking about the state of the nation, you have no possibility of a replica. You have the opportunity to argue through clubs, but you do not have the opportunity to argue as a representative, which I think is one of the exceptional disadvantages of this Rules of Procedure. There is also Article 137, which is already being abused by this and the existing and non-existent Rules of Procedure, because you have above all that a member of the Government whose question is asked says it is generally appropriate and that response can take 4 minutes. It's not an exception to us, it's a rule. So, a member of the government speaks for 4 minutes regardless of the complexity of the issue. Because it's hard to determine what the complexity of the question is. There is also Article 204 concerning the emergency procedure, so here it needs to be carefully considered given that both existing and non-existent almost 90% of what the Constitutional Court has pointed out and we have laws under urgent procedure. Exceptional legislation can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons require it to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. So we haven't been able to remove these major economic disturbances, but 90% of the law goes according to an emergency procedure. And it's not the newspaper of this Rules of Procedure, but it's written in these two, one existing and one nonexistent. There is Article 236 which speaks of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is also why the President of the Assembly is obliged to include the opinion of the Committee, so it is about that known system of cadiums and prosecutions, cadiyas and judges, the opinion of the Committee on the agenda of the Committee's opinion on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Parliament shall decide without discussion. So there's no mention of when it's going to be put on the agenda. So I'm afraid, I know that in the last meeting there was one proposal from the CNS on the conviction of Stalinist crimes by starving, for God's sakes to this day the Croatian Parliament has not discussed it. I appreciate it, so I'll see that there's a couple of replicas and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41762	Thank you. It's got four replicas. First call from a colleague named Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Salapic for a very constructive debate and for the comments and suggestions made therein. And as for fellow Members of Vinkovic, the respected colleague of the Rules of Procedure that we are working on is the one that was published in the National Journal, and that's the one. 71/2000., 129/200., 117/2001., 6/2002., 41/2002., 91/2003., 58/2004., 39/2008., 86/2008. and 81/2012. A year. So we are working on that Rules of Procedure, which was adopted in the constitutional procedure by the Croatian Parliament with all its amendments and additions, which were published in the National Journal in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and entered into force. What's controversial is the question of the consolidated text. But the consolidated text as such is not an act on which decisions are made but only one working tool that facilitates work. In this case, you have this working agent on the Assembly's websites and, like any representative, it is divided into benches. So we are working on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament whose latest amendments and additions have been published in the National Journal 81/2012. A year. And as for the other remarks you have made, specifically those on the Prime Minister's speech, it is an institute that is introduced for the first time in this form by this Rules of Procedure. We'll test him, see what he looks like. But according to this proposal, which lies ahead of us, every political option represented in the Croatian Parliament will have absolutely the same opportunity to demonstrate, praise or criticise this report and no political option will be denied debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41764	Thank you, too. We have an answer, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41765	So, without doubting your legal knowledge, not commenting on what you said about the referendum and the referendum issue, but read the Constitution a little bit, so you'll see who decides that it's the Constitutional Court. But here I'm going to ask you already when we're doing what you say is just editorialally refined text. Tell me, where did the correction of the incorrect allegations go? Did you end it on your own or do we do it on the old Rules of Procedure? So I'd like to ask you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, to transfer the President to the Parliament to return that tile with the correction of the incorrect quote. Because what my colleague Grbin's been saying now is not true. Not an incorrect quote, but a lie. So we're working on the nonexistent Rules of Procedure. And that's a fact. Not to mention the other provisions in that. And as for the Prime Minister, so I don't mean Zoran Milanovic here, but above all, I think of the possibility, or the inability of a parliamentary representative to replicate the Prime Minister and past the club representatives. It's a newspaper, but if we're introducing a newspaper, then let's introduce it with all the democratic standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41766	Thank you. We have an announced breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Peja Grbin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41767	Here's your thanks, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Vinkovic, stating that I am not telling the truth, has demeaned me as a parliamentary representative, although a concrete correction of the incorrect allegations has been lifted by amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament No. 81/2012. the year of the amendment of Article 209; Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41768	What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured by a colleague of the coat of arms?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41769	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41770	Here's the thing, buddy Grbin... I understand that there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure by my colleague Vinkovic, he did not insult you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He generally said it was a lie, not that you were telling the truth, read, we could look at the phonogram. That's his opinion. And I'm referring you to the committee in charge that he's assessing whether it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative Vinkovic, I think, well detected that with a whole series of articles that are being introduced, is actually reducing democracy to this Rules of Procedure. One of the things is, of course, that the new ministers, therefore not those chosen when and the whole government, but those later, will be discussed and this has been repeatedly referred to as a bad solution within the board and voted then, only to vote, in the plenary system, which is the very funny hand to the heart. Not because we're going to create only two types of ministers, but because we're in the plenary system discussing all sorts of things. I will not say more or less important, more or less crucial to the Croatian people and the Croatian state, but forgive me if we can discuss reports of various debates I think that even the report of the Chamber of crafts is debated or I don't know what everything we don't and we won't discuss a man or woman who is elected minister or minister, man or woman who will be elected as minister or minister. It seems to me that it's something that's terribly strange and that's falling off any of the principles that I think we're representing here. What has been said about Article 128 is, in fact, in a way, the silent revision of the Constitution because it is clearly given to the Prime Minister positions which he does not have in the parliamentary system and regardless of what the representatives of parliamentary parties may speak about it, MPs will not be allowed to speak there. He'll give his thoughts about the state of the state and the nation based on half a year, and we'll be able to hear it and think of our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41772	Thank you. We have a colleague Vinkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41773	Thank you. A fellow Reiner really is. And you yourself confirmed what I was saying. The Assembly is indeed discussing, for example. this year or last year we discussed reports from 2011. But by the time you mentioned the Constitution, someone might have thought that Vinkovic sometimes didn't stick to the Rules of Procedure, but he's sticking to the Constitution. So I'm just going to remind you of what the Constitutional Court has ordered the creator of the consolidated text NN No. 85/2010. Vladimir Shakespeare to return those particular articles. No colleagues of the coat of arms. So that we are a state or a Croatian Parliament that reads the invalid text of the Constitution, there is also a editorially consolidated text that is not valid and that has been abolished along with the President of the Parliament, vice-presidents of the Assembly, correcting the incorrect allegations. And now it comes to me that I am not following the Rules of Procedure again because it is obviously a matter of all parliamentary deputies and, above all, those who chair this session of Parliament. So they don't stick to the Constitution, so they don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. So I'd like to ask you to deliver the new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to me tomorrow on the bench before the new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is adopted to give me back that bat with the correction of the incorrect quote. Only then will I be an even more active representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41774	Thank you, too. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Vinkovic's proposal for a new Rules of Procedure not to be abolished by opposition MPs but to be abolished by ministers and vice-presidents of the government. Because look at what it says in article 119, that's paragraph 7 or 8. Any proposed candidate may be asked questions during the debate referred to in paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. So what are you going to ask someone questions if they have no right to answer? Well, it makes sense if someone asks him that a man has the right to answer. But no, it should be put in the Rules of Procedure, but you know why? Because the Prime Minister has been given such powers to the Prime Minister and the Vice-President of the Government who is responsible for the work of his portfolio, it should be pointed out in particular in the Rules of Procedure that they have the right to answer the question if someone asks them where their fate is discussed. And what was led by opposition deputies, Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Stazic tried to elaborate in his debate this morning, in fact, how the Prime Minister has little time compared to the opposition MPs. Now look he's talking about the report has an hour. You have a 4 club ruling coalition that is an additional 80 minutes, you have 2 hybrid clubs that are often with the government that is an additional 40 minutes, you have 2 minority clubs that is an additional 40 minutes. So it's 80 plus 80 it's 160 and then another 60 it's 220 minutes, and three opposition clubs have 60 minutes together. So great math ratio 1:4. But God forbid it would happen, because since the Prime Minister can speak for an hour about what the government has been doing and the opposition clubs have the right to say only 20 minutes of what the government hasn't done, don't let God accidentally think of an opposition representative to say something beyond the club. No. He has no right to speak. But that's why the Prime Minister under this Rules of Procedure has the right to replicate on every speech... 20 minutes of a club. So we've driven everything our people say in Parliament only the Prime Minister can come and do whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41776	Thank you. Time. We have a colleague Vinkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41777	I'm saying this for the future because you're still bigger masters than this non-performing in space and time. And then I can only think about what will then happen to this Rules of Procedure who will probably and almost certainly adopt the current ruling coalition. So I'll remind you that the Prime Minister's speech on the report may take up to 1 hour. No replica is allowed at the address of the Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister, I'm not talking about the name and last name, he can talk about whatever his heart wants here for an hour, and you can't react like you've never been able to react in a certain way before, because the Prime Minister had the right to respond again to your replica. I don't have anything against it. But this is the institute of abolishing the speech of the strongest weapons of MPs chosen by the Croatian people. It's a speech, it's not a gun, it's a gun, it's a machine gun, it's a mortar, it's a trigger. It's language, it's speech. And so I ask you on behalf of that speech of the strongest weapons of MPs in the Croatian Parliament that we simply, here we are holding on to the existing Rules of Procedure until a new one is adopted. And I hope Mr. Vice President that those old tiles don't know how much one comes, I've marked mine you haven't thrown in the trash and it's probably recycled and we're going to return the correction of the incorrect quote so that all MPs can work on the Rules of Procedure those who have it and those who have it or haven't got it on the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41778	Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41779	Thank you very much, President. Well, colleague Vinkovic, in your debate, you claimed that there was no debate on a new individual minister who appeared, so some kind of hockey change like that in a hurry. A little constituency committee's gonna discuss it, and then we're gonna move on to the vote. No wonder, because I am the impression of this debate, but also of what it says on all these pages that we have received from the Rules of Procedure that we do not have the important, greatest, concrete goal that was to be achieved with these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Here it writes a greater democratisation of the lawmaking process and the efficiency of Parliament's work. That's general. We have not determined what we want with the Croatian Parliament, because this position of the Parliament does not cheer any of us here. We've heard today, someone said above Parliament is just a god. According to this Rules of Procedure above the Parliament is only Zoran Milanovic, such is the impression that we also read certain articles that refer to such a situation, and one of these is what you have stated, so that in the debate you rightly warned that you are being discriminated against as a group, a smaller group of parliamentary representatives because there is some censorship of six percent where then you would assess who is allowed and how much you can participate in the work of a joint home. The fact is that the Replica Institute and this story of correcting an incorrect quote were actually a step back in the work of the Parliament although it was then placed in previous changes as the most important achievement of these changes precisely more effective and faster work of the Parliament. We've achieved quite the opposite. I'm afraid we're going to do the same thing with this Rules of Procedure, because according to the President of the Parliament's report for the past year of 7,000 announcements, 3300 are replicas. So 50% are almost replicas. It means that without a good view of where the position and the basic objective to be achieved with this Rules of Procedure of this minor individual amendment is simply not going to achieve the purpose of the Rules of Procedure. [[Upadica Batinić: Time of fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41780	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41781	I stick to my colleague Vuksic's Rules of Procedure when, but here I am, as an engineer of engineering, not a legal expert. But here's what I've seen are certain problems in this text, unlike large legal students who interpret even the referendum and the Constitution, and I don't know what. And here I have noticed certain things that, above all, reduce the role of the Croatian Parliament, lead to a privileged position compared to the Croatian government, compared to the Prime Minister. And if we continue this way then we can simply say so, then we will not have 153 MPs, but let's go to the elections, so the Croatian citizens will be represented here by the presidents of political parties both the positions and the opposition and it will be much cheaper for this country, much cheaper for Croatian citizens, and finally there is another possibility so let's go back to that one-party system and we'll have a delegate system and it'll be nice for everyone who had a nice time. But this Rules of Procedure and this Croatian Parliament must protect democracy in Croatia, must protect this country and must develop that democracy. Because democracy is not a flower that you need to water every day, but you need to contribute that it has strong foundations and that it develops daily. In Parliament, people may be watching, but Parliament has passed almost 70% of the laws unanimously, sometimes with a heated debate, sometimes with suggestions, remarks, etc. And I'm not going to say it like that to people who don't understand what they're saying or I hope most people talk out of their heads without saying what the party bosses say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41782	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41783	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, according to what Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Stazic said several hours ago that the minority in the Assembly is terrorising most of this is an anti-terrorist or anti-terrorist act. Just if we're terrorists, then it's an anti-terrorism act, they want to eliminate us. However, Mr. Stazic's approach also calls terrorists who voted for us. What is predicted by several articles is the abolition of the opposition. What do you want with this act? He wants to reduce the opposition's ability, the ability to speak. They say it's not true. How is that not true? Article 128 and 129 says I will not read the whole speech without strangling you because you have all read, "No replica is allowed at the speech of the Prime Minister". He can speak for an hour, but no replica is allowed. And then who can speak when represented by the government. I can speak to the club president. The club president was elected to one constituency. Who represents the citizens of the second constituency to communicate with the Prime Minister? And when I said it was an anti-democratic someone stood up that it wasn't anti-democratic. Yes, it's simply a disabling communication with members of the government and the Prime Minister who was elected in this House. Before, Mr. Schucker calculated how much time he gets, how many oppositions. If the Prime Minister's speech and the club's speech are counted, then it can be seen that he actually has the right to speak three, four opposition clubs. But their parliamentary representatives cannot speak, mostly positional and do not speak, or parliamentary representatives of the government. When the prime minister of the government represents government members, there are no talks with MPs, there is no debate on these same future members of the government. Then what brings them to the Parliament? They sit here and he proposes, recites their names, reads or pronounces their program, and afterwards, parliamentary deputies must remain silent. The other thing is even more inappropriate is those ministers. So these ministers, future ministers, are probably due to something of the government's choice. These are people with names and names, they should be. Well, I guess it's their right to introduce themselves to the Parliament who will choose them. On what basis can we decide and raise our hand for, against what? On the basis of their non-representation, based on CV as popular as they are? Which is why they can't get a few minutes to introduce themselves and get their parliamentary representatives, so here's the deal with club presidents, asking questions they need to answer. Perhaps the government would be unanimously elected after it sees that it really has high-quality future ministers, and perhaps members of the position, or the authorities would say so, so we won't choose these. Is that what anyone's afraid of? Obstruction of the opposition's proposal is terrifying, incredible. That's right. Our proposals stand for months and years and are not even discussed in one term. That's what the HDZ government did, and I said it well, because it's probably the head of the government's orders not to discuss it. The most recent example of a violation of democratic principles was with the HRT Act. Croatian Labourists released legislation in the parliamentary procedure, which stood for several months, after which came the government's law. When was our law discussed? When this one was adopted, a month after that. And now you're saying you're a democratic government. So what's democratic about it? Well, it's a show of democracy. It's the shame of the Parliament! And you say no, so we have the right, we have got most of us to bear the burden of all the burden of Croatia on our backs. So we don't recognize the opposition. The opposition is just a fig leaf like the fig leaf of the entire Parliament. Not the entire Parliament, I'm correcting myself, only the part that supports that government. All MPs in the same basket don't need to be put in the same basket. It is said this Rules of Procedure will allow for a better organisation of Parliament's work. And now what has prevented it from being organized? So yesterday we didn't know 13 points of the agenda or 10 points of the agenda passed, there was no more who, we don't know how to prepare, especially clubs that have fewer representatives. In some order you prepare yourself and then say not this law that is second but this eleventh. And that's a better organization now? So why does the 11th go? Dismiss then, there's no need for the Parliament to work that way. And now we have to, and what happened? Of those 11 points, how many 10 parliamentary deputies debated all together. We rushed yesterday. It destroys Parliament's integrity, doesn't speak to parliamentary deputies. I've said before every parliamentary representative answers for his words. Each parliamentary representative is evaluated by the people in Croatia. He's estimating it in the election. Many who spoke a lot in the Croatian Parliament did not pass, you remember, in the elections. So, every councilman is responsible for whether or not they're going to talk often, if there's anything to say, but it's certainly not going to be given to him by the government. Here you have 6% of you 35 minutes, so you're going to redistribute. And then the party chief says now I'm on my own, and you're not gonna talk now he's gonna say this. You mean partytocracy you support all forces. Fortunately there is no such thing, I apologize there is no in the proposal but as soon as the Vice President of the Parliament suggested something like that could be that, it's a sinister announcement. You said you needed to transfer the focus of work to committees. I'm sure, I agree. The committees need to be discussed, we have experts on boards, we have external associates, but then we need to arrange so that the committee decisions commit plenary sessions, and not to say it wasn't on the board, so they say it doesn't matter, we'll do it, the point goes, the vote goes, and it wasn't on the board. What's the focus? Not according to this Rules of Procedure. The committees don't get any more authority except to get new vice presidents. The government is as democratic as it is here in the Parliament as it defends the right of parliamentary representatives of the minority, or opposition. Instead of giving them more space trying to make the opposition invisible. And every time the opposition speaks then it's said it's populism, it bothers me more than being simple, when someone calls MPs tambourines, when they're trying to humiliate them. And until 15 months or a year and a half ago, they made it 10 times worse. And now that we're talking, they say you can't talk, and if we can't humiliate you like this, then we're going to do it with a legal solution, then we're going to try the rules of procedure. It is not necessary to address the Prime Minister if we do not have the right to ask him, and if we do not have the right to replicate, if we do not have the right to communicate. I'm the first one who won't come to listen to the prime minister in the Croatian Parliament if I'm going to have to sit like a mummy. What do I need that for? So I listen to him every night. The monologue is on Croatian TV and you ordered a 20 minute show for 20 minutes, a journalist asks him questions that some others have asked him. And now he's going to come another hour to the Parliament and give us an hour with a high lesson and I have to keep my mouth shut and don't ask, I have to keep my mouth shut when he's representing and it's getting more and more common for the new ministers. Then what are we for? Here we are chosen to speak, here we are chosen to represent those who have chosen us and you are trying to make it impossible for us in this Rules of Procedure. I hope you won't honor any of those insidious announcements by the Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41784	Thank you. We have six replicas reported. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41785	My colleague, I said right away that this is not a proposal from the Rules of Procedure but rather a motion to abolish the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. But I'm not surprised. So you have over 700 thousand signatures for the referendum and that's not true. Well, if the Croatian Parliament can't make an immediate decision by law, it requires the opinion of the Constitutional Court, and that's a thing that's clear, and not that the Croatian Parliament is making a decision on the non-referencing of the referendum, there's no such thing as nowhere, it's obviously just here with us. On the other hand, you called this proposal of this Rules of Procedure an anti-terrorist act, a document, a tool. I would not like the parliamentary representatives to call us on the basis of these existing Rules of Procedures, or one valid on the basis of this proposal, that someone in particular sees these opposition representatives now in the Croatian Parliament do not call members of Al-Quaida, so either I or you are Bin Laden or I don't know who. But we want someone to see it that way. So I remember that time there when I wore Mrs. Kosor that bag of kids that was interesting back then. And it didn't say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that it could be done and done. Now I must not ask the Prime Minister or what it is, after an hour of his speech in the Parliament. He's got a right to be a colleague of what he's doing here. I better get some coffee, then. I don't mean Milanovic, I mean another who comes in third and fourth. Who's interested in that, then? You have no right to ask him as elected representative by Croatian citizens. And we chose him here, so it's nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41786	Thank you. Comrade Vuksic, please choose your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41787	Dear colleague Vinkovic, I hope that the referendum will not be prohibited. I think the referendum is being talked about in public, but no signatures have arrived as far as I know and we can't prejudge whether a form that needs to be satisfied is still being satisfied. So I wouldn't talk about it. What I was saying was that the anti-terrorist war I spoke ironically, but I fully agree with you that most of the talk is wanted and I dedicated myself to making it impossible for the opposition to be loud in some way. What excellent SDP and HNS MPs used when they were in the opposition is disabled. If that had been done to them, they would have declared forgiveness for the Fascist government of another government if that had happened to them. They'd be insolent about it. Therefore, how can it be thought that those who are in the minority, that those who cannot make a single decision in the Croatian Parliament mean nothing at all, the only means in the opposition is the speech that is our only weapon and tool. And then they say now we're gonna cut you off so you can't talk and then under... your director of HRT to put the sessions on the 4th program. And then even now, it bothers them, maybe people realized that there's a 4th program, so they're slowly coming in and they say the people are watching, and then they're canceling the replicas, and they're canceling the possibility of asking the prime minister something. So that's the dictation of the opposition. However, as soon as they want us to stop, we will be louder and we will find ways to explain to the people what they want us to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41788	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, to be honest, did not give God what my colleague Stazic was saying on behalf of the SDP club, we would probably have ended this discussion long ago because it just wouldn't have worked out. However, it is very interesting to give this new time to the Prime Minister a new space. Because look at Article 129, the debate does not allow for replicas. So MPs are not allowed to replicate to MPs, MPs are not allowed to replicate to the Prime Minister but it is very interesting that it is not written that there is no debate on behalf of the motionor. Because, according to our rules of procedure, every debate by the club, the president can discuss it for 10 minutes. So add 100 more minutes to what I've been adding, which he will be responding to by any proposer. So it's something that this Parliament is leading into the darkness that it's never been to. And how funds are used that don't even exist in the Rules of Procedure know best colleagues, Shakespeare. It happened to him once because it worked longer than half-seven that his SDP colleagues surrounded the pay phone and the session could not continue. The seat's broken. And you know why? Because that item of the agenda had to be discussed in the morning when it was broadcast by television. What are we supposed to do now? The depth of the head here in front of the pay phone because our sessions aren't being transmitted at all. Therefore, I did tell my colleague Stazic today that Stazic, the opposition representative, hears Stazic's Vice President-President-in-Office to be appalled at what is being proposed here today. And otherwise, just so many colleagues who are shorter in this House replica on behalf of the club, it's the invention of SDP's wetlands, and to discuss the budget up to two, three in the morning so that it can't be voted on Friday but to move the vote for next week. But the world simply doesn't start with anyone and ends with anyone. There is that in the people "don't do what you wouldn't want someone else to do to you" which is perhaps a proverb in this Assembly that should be repeated every day to those who wish to avenge democracy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41790	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41791	Well, she's got, like, "God forbid he's got power and he doesn't." Is it? There's that one. I agree with you. I hope what Mr. Stazic said doesn't come true. He hopes so too. I don't know if there are two Mr. Stazics, but it doesn't matter. One of the ministers told me when I made an observation, when we discussed it, it seemed to me that we were discussing some kind of work act, it was Minister Mrsic to let me be patient, tomorrow morning it would be morning, and my stage lights would turn on. Look, first he didn't get a warning, of course he didn't. So I can return to him a self-loving minister in this way saying that only out of pâtété they don't pop up on Croatian radio. We're not fighting for cameras because we're self-loving, we're fighting for people to hear what we're talking about. That's what we were saying. That's our tool. And the other thing is, so many telecommunications networks have been expanded that Croatian citizens are certainly watching other parliament sessions, so the British Parliament is also very accessible. So look at how they're arguing in the British Parliament and how much there is under the allegations of noise and what the atmosphere is. This is Chamber Parliament, this is chamber ensemble. So, what are we discussing? Well, first of all, I guess they're gonna ban us from doing anything, and I guess they're gonna ban us from banging on, so we're not gonna be able to talk. So what do we do? We're gonna hit the benches? They're gonna tie our hands? I don't know what. I don't think this job you started is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41792	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues. Here he is, after these discussions, there will be more of them, and more and more of us get the outlines of the Rules of Procedure as if they were written by Kim II Sung aman to him. He's been talking for an hour, and they're all yelling and throwing themselves at each other, but they're not complaining about anything else. North Korea is really going to take a look at this, support it, and we're going to have a wonderful Rules of Procedure. It's a democracy festival in this Rules of Procedure. So they announced to us from their previous two other Rules of Procedure that they would introduce order. They're half-empty today. Why? Because it's been committees since morning, and not just any committee, but important committees that are being discussed and still ongoing, and today are important points of the agenda. So how's that? It has been said that the committees will be held at a time when there is no session, right, Parliament. However, since Kim II Sungovski's Rules of Procedure is probably more than you have the right to do so, we don't have to say anything, but they're going to ban us nicely. They'll say it's over, Parliament's gone, no more parliaments in Croatia. It's not in our interest. Only the beloved son and leader will speak as much as they will. Well, that's my opinion, and I think most of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41794	Thank you. We have a colleague Vuksic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41795	Yeah, now it's Kim Jong, that he, the mind at the end. So, if we promised, most of us promised to have board meetings Monday and Tuesday. I have to say that I've never been, colleagues know, in these 15 months, I'm sorry, in these 15 months at the Committee on Education and Culture meetings on Mondays and Tuesdays because it just can't happen. Why can't it happen? No colleagues, let a colleague explain why. And I begged that at the session that I would no longer come at the plenary session, because we should do something. You spoke of it, reminded me that they wanted to see that Parliament and that there was no point in talking in Parliament anymore. I don't think we're going to stop, that regardless of what the Prime Minister was here, and if he makes it impossible for us to discuss with him, we're going to find a way to discuss with the thesis in his speech. And I think it's going to be a big minus position, because it's absolutely certain that people understand what they're doing. And one thing I'd like to support in this one, and many colleagues have criticised it for four minutes. I did for the answer four minutes. If you ask the minister a question, then you're really looking for an answer not with yes and no, but an explanation. But then the chairman should have the courage to tell the prime minister about this you have two minutes, for this four. And you know how the Prime Minister says no, I'm right, give me the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, everything in relation to the chairman and prime minister. But I'm more of a four-minute stand than two minutes away because I really want to know the answer. Not me, but the public, because we're asking for the public's sake not because of ourselves, because we're curious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41796	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41797	Dear Mr. Vice President, before I say what I meant by my esteemed representative Vuksic, I must say that I am sorry that there is no chairman here of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as a representative of the motion. He doesn't have most of this discussion like there wasn't a good part of the discussion at the previous point. So, the promoter obviously doesn't care too much about what's being said here because it's going to be decided somewhere else anyway, like many of us said, so it's not even done here. It was made one and the other text was written somewhere else by the dictatorship of someone else. Well, maybe it doesn't matter what we're talking about here and what we're suggesting. However, I would still like to refer to what the esteemed representative Vuksic said, which is that we should all be aware of something. At this time we bring our Rules of Procedure, not the Government's Rules of Procedure, not the Rules of Procedure of the Rulers, we bring the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I also think that we should all care about both the ruling and us in our opposition to bringing the best and the best of our own quality Rules of Procedure. A Rules of Procedure that won't change when the government changes but that lasts. Because power always lasts for a while. Will there be an extraordinary election? Well maybe long before, maybe already in the fall or next year or in the worst case of two years. Then why would this Rules of Procedure have to change? So let's make it the best, the most objective, that it's worth and benefits everyone. So it doesn't come to the benefit of those who are in power now so that when we come back to power, and we come, then we're going to change it in some other way, and then you who represent this you're going to say it's wrong. That doesn't make sense. So now we're all sorting out our own house together and some way of acting, and I'm pleading that's how we look at this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41798	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41799	That dear colleague Reiner is by that authority it's me or the state it's me. The Rules of Procedure should be made to my end. At this point, I am ruling, and I want it to be the easiest thing to do. It doesn't matter what happens tomorrow because every government thinks it'll last 20 years. Remember the first president of the state, Dr. Francis Tudjman when he said we'd rule for at least 20 years and yet they didn't, it was only 10. This Rules of Procedure, which is designed to measure only one party or one coalition, actually humiliates the Parliament. Obedience, I repeat, and halftime has humiliated the Parliament. The parliament demeans the fact that parliamentarians are unspeakably voting for what they do not believe. And I have convinced myself dozens of times by talking to them because that is what those party disciplines say that without party discipline there is no parliamentaryism. Then it's not parliamentaryism if the boss's word is the last word. What is parliamentaryism? To raise your hands like the boss says. Well, there's no parliamentaryism. I agree with you, we need to reach a consensus, so we need to reach the Rules of Procedure unanimously and that the Rules of Procedure are going on since we are now entering the EU, we are probably not going to break up so quickly, we are entering the EU and there will be no more reasons for amending the Rules of Procedure. Let's discuss this Rules of Procedure for a long time, I don't think we should bring the Rules of Procedure in 1.07. We haven't fulfilled anything, so we don't need to meet that deadline. And let's make a deal and bring a Rules of Procedure that will be worth it for the next government, no matter who it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41800	Thank you. Next replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41801	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that I understood the essence of what you wanted to say with your debate, which is that we also have to try as much as possible to strengthen the reputation of the Croatian Parliament as possible. The reputation of the Croatian Parliament is also available for all research, even when you look at the portals, the reactions of the citizens are really low. When the debate on the salaries of state officials opens, then almost exclusively the request for the reduction of the salaries of parliamentary deputies and MPs not ministers, not someone from the don't give God to the third pillar of power but always exclusively for MPs. So, MPs are unemployed, ignorant, useless people who sit or don't even sit in this building at all but spend government money, taxpayers' money and absolutely do nothing. So we have to try and change that through this new Rules of Procedure. Which means improving the conditions of our work. You mentioned the day yesterday well. Indeed, those citizens who could possibly follow what was happening were certainly confused because in some moments they knew neither where we would go nor where we would go. And of course there were no representatives here and of course there was no quality debate on several important agenda points. You mentioned further moving opposition MPs' proposals to the bottom and not discussing opposition representatives' proposals. I want to turn on one more thing you may not have noticed. There is one proposal from the Government, which is the proposal for a Law on Public Order and Peace Misdemeanors, which has been moving for several months now, is now the 65th item on this agenda, it is a proposal from the Government that is extremely important. So that's what we do, and I asked you a month ago to say if the government is withdrawing, it would be good to withdraw it because of the government's dignity, not to move it to the bottom of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41802	Thank you, we've figured out colleagues, Kosor. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41803	Dear colleagues Kosor, yes, people are for a reason in a grudge against the Parliament. We should all work together to strengthen Parliament's reputation. First of all, there is a need to penalise the unhappiness of the Parliament, the lack of Parliament, the unwarranted absence of Parliament. It is absolutely certain that parliamentary representatives are on board, when the assembly is empty some work, but often it is too often empty when there is no board, see when they are and when they are not committees. That should be punished by fines. There's a fine to be imposed. Some parliaments have, they don't get when they don't come to the vote, they don't get a share of the salary. We are too hard for the people to live for us to boast here so that we do not work because we have too good wages compared to most of the Croatian people and we have to bear our burden. That's why we are Croatian Labourists suggest reducing all state officials, so we are sent with a mockery because it is like a populist measure. No, because we want to give up that salary. It's not a populist measure. If you think it's populist to be closer to the ones you represent, then you're wrong. If the rule had been introduced that everything on the agenda had to be discussed and that the session would not have ended before then what you said would not have ended in 63rd place, and that was said by Mr. Lesar shortly before then there would have been more order and then it would not have been put on the agenda pro-forma. But when you put it on the agenda means that point on the agenda will come at some point in the debate until the end of the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41804	Thank you. And the last replica Joseph Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41805	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my esteemed colleague Vuksic, in terms of you and those who have so far. You said in your statement that a little bit of this assembly is like a chamber call, so it turns out that we're the opposition here. And that's really bad. I think that this is due to the changes in the rules of procedure because, by removing that correction of the incorrect quote that lasted 1 minute, it wanted to jump into these two-minute replicas, so 2 minutes of answers, it was all expensively lengthened the debate, so it's probably the direction of the ruling coalition not to discuss anything. That's exactly what I believe there is because it doesn't really matter to me when you're critical of saying that no one ever answers you. Well, that turns out to be the movie "Dead Cold" every single one of us. So there's no absolute answer on the other side. And even the one who follows the Croatian Parliament when he sees a half-empty assembly and we pair here as we discuss ourselves we are as an opposition critical and we want to fix something but we are with ourselves. It's like now in the election campaign when they put us in front of the camera TV and said you have three minutes to give your program. So who do I give it to? It's kind of awkward, like someone didn't stick you in a box and with themselves. So there is no return, the quality and meaning of the debate is lost, and therefore the quality of parliamentaryism. Because the purpose of the election is to have different opinions. Most people have opinions, the opposition will have opinions. Sometimes we are also constructive and it is very bad that the opinion of the opposition is not respected during the two years of the government's mandate. We're not stupid enough that we don't know what we're talking about. We speak what we think and what we need to say and want to fix the situation if we can and expect something to be accepted. If everything is rejected, if we are listed here today and that we are a group of 6% who tambourine and talk nonsense and that we are a burden to the government then the meaning of parliamentaryism and generally multilaterals in Croatia is lost. That's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41806	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41807	Dear counterpart Salapic, I was asked by a citizen who regularly follows the sessions whether I am grounded every day in the Parliament. I asked why he thought it, so he says you're there to squat a few of you in the back benches is you at the penalty, you're on duty or didn't people understand because they think nobody should do anything. That's why we came out of the blue. The Parliament needs to be discussed. You're saying no one's replicating our replicas to our presentations. I don't know if that's an answer or not, but it's not good, because that communication is necessary, it's necessary. If we were to communicate more in this way and more opposition then we would clear our views. So we can come up with some kind of solution. But we here speak monologues already know exactly who will be replicated to, and then it is declared by Vice President of the Parliament and some other people circusing. And now you think I'm going to be the circus talker. And the rest of us don't answer because we opposition don't have opportunities like the minister has every day is at least on some show, every day interpreting somewhere, every day having an interview. To us, this is a political stage and a political stage that we need to take advantage of and we need to take our views somewhere. And where are we going to express our political views rather than here in the Parliament, is that why we are chosen, not because, as one minister says, we would enjoy the bright stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41808	Thank you. And next, Joseph Kregar applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41809	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I think the common denominator of many debates that I have heard today is the living desire to increase the reputation and political influence of the Parliament. I think that's what we all share. True, the executive authority says there are many advantages, expertise, contact with information, daily work of professionals in a certain narrowly defined area in each ministry. So the Parliament did not want to when I was given this task to pass any act does not show such a high degree of expertise, willingness and efficiency in that. But don't get it wrong I'm not saying this because the debate isn't good because we think it's estimating. He certainly has a right and it is good that he has the right to express his opinion. But what I want to point out is the fact that the loss of credibility and the reputation of the Parliament in society is not the result of these little procedural tricks and is not the result of a particular campaign for a particular moment behind which God knows what interests are. The public reputation and impression of the Parliament is the result of the poor practice of the absence of elementary non-business norms but ethical and human norms in the debate. I've heard many things today that may, of course, be understandable in the open debate and freedom of expression, but they're not very constructive, they're more offensive than they help. The impression and reputation of the Parliament in the public are primarily caused by the idea of contentiousness and unnecessary tensions. I was proud of some parliamentary sessions, the truth late afternoon and evening when there was no transmission, in which there was a very responsible, meaningful and professionally subdued and justified debate. Sometimes that's not the case, and that's what affected Parliament's reputation and significance. Of course I want a democratic debate in the House, but here is the fact that this amendment of the Rules of Procedure has been somewhat extorted by the fact that the changes are based on the bad practice that exists in the Assembly in certain things. Correction of an incorrect quote is an example of such abuse. However, I do not think that it is corrected by amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Then let me think about what I mean. I think, and this is repeated from a call to a convocation, that the Parliament should adopt ethical rules of conduct of MPs in performing its public function. It would concern not only the behaviour on this stage but would concern the overall public action of elected representatives. Such a matter is also indicated in the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. There and we have a proposal here that I support to adopt such an act because it might be an opportunity to correct and indicate that the rules of fundamental competence of conduct and expression of its opinion are being violated. No one should censor the content, especially it shouldn't just be the censorship of any MP. But it is necessary to take into account the consequences of style and speech, which are the consequences of the events that cause numerous replicas but do not lead to good thinking and results. Deliberative democracy is a democracy that is based on debate, and it is not easy to understand. So, I propose and I am pleased that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure contains one such clause. I don't think that's the only example of the positive evaluation of these changes and that it's necessary to pay a little attention that they are the result and the desire to codify and the good practices that exist in the Assembly. At the end of the Rules of Procedure, I say is not the basic tool that affects the public impression, it only organises our discussions. I'd like, of course, to make it as high as possible in terms of consensus and consensus. But that's what we need to work on, maybe in a different tone and style than we have. And let me just have one more tiny little remark that I'm going to elaborate on because this is still a place where you can't say everything in such a short time. That's the fact that we don't have enough elaborate provisions regarding committee work. We have, I just think that some practical things that concern the action or work of the committee between sessions concerning order and quorum in sessions should be done in the mood of tolerance and cooperation without realizing that telling the truth is an insult, but also without the truth being spoken in an offensive way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41810	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative and distinguished professors, I am interested here to hear from you in this replica, do you really think that this Rules of Procedure is the speech of the Prime Minister in this case, the one hour speech of Prime Minister who will not be replicated, who will be impeccable to contribute both expertise and respect, and that we will then show how very cultural we are, how democratic we are and how we respect and how we love all of this around us. Dear Professor, do you think that's really so good? Here's what I really want to know. And do you think that in this House there are not just as many professional people who may even be more skilled than some ministers, and that in some cases, or in the ministries, there are really ministers who might be better off with a respected representative to keep their mouth shut like the Prime Minister does. Do you support that Prime Minister Milanovic defends the minister from answering the question at all? Will this then contribute to the integrity of the Parliament? Here, I'm interested in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41812	Thank you. Answer, colleague Craiger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41813	I thank you very much for asking that I may immediately explain... I thank you for the question because it allows me, of course, to clarify what I mean, but in that, it is the advantage of what was spoken against, the replica. [[The speaker's off the mic.]] [[Intruder Batinić: Microphone.]] It's an opportunity to say what I mean, and then let me say it briefly. In most of the parliaments that I know of, indeed, the prime minister's exposure cannot be turned into a general debate in which the emphasis and possibilities that such circumstances mean are lost. Of course, this must not prevent issues from being discussed, but not at the moment when the government's policy is being exposed. I think this is a solution that is a compromise in which clubs have these rights, but not yet MPs one reasonable solution, a medium solution. This is not North Korea, and I hope that Croatia will never be similar in its political system. And as for other questions, I actually see one thing that's very important. I normally represent the opinion that the power of the executive authority is so great that Parliament can only oppose it with its own activity and intelligence, but my opinion did not come from the experience of the Croatian Parliament. Get the literature. Max Weber chapter 21 of the book of Privreda and Society, 70 of which explains what the advantages are, and you all know that. Mr. Shuker was a minister, so he knows what strength of knowledge and experience and data is behind the minister who speaks of finance. It's a parliamentary representative with the best will, his now or yours in the future. So we are in some way inferior in our capabilities to the executive government. But gentlemen, they don't make laws, we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41814	Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41815	Thank you very much. Comrade Kregar, you said you recognized here a living desire for the better reputation of Parliament and public defenders. The Parliament has the reputation it deserves, the MPs have exactly the reputation they deserve. It's the consequence of years of action, sometimes in a little bit of an unnatural way. The government often treats the Parliament undervalued, and sometimes the Parliament and MPs agree to underestimate themselves. And it's not good for democracy. Sometimes the Parliament is a place for the healing of vanity of some from the government, and sometimes the Parliament is also a place for courting young people who are beyond reason. That should be avoided. For example, even though the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament have neither defined nor defined the new ones, it does not define that when the reports of individual institutions that correspond directly to the Assembly and report directly to the Parliament, no one dares to discuss on the committee these reports that there is no government opinion on the report, let alone put it in the agenda procedure or public debate that there is no government opinion. And that's what we agree to, we keep agreeing. It was a practice except for exceptions. It's not that, not everyone agrees. But very often we agree to underestimation itself. And sometimes whether this is good or not, I even think you'll be the first to stand up to such a business after the power is lost. And that he won't use it sometimes, of course he won't. We had a chance here the other day when the Vice President of the Parliament only spoke for six minutes and said publicly that he did not want to respond to parliamentary replicas, and no one responded to such behaviour as the Deputy Prime Minister. It is his duty to talk and answer parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41816	Time. Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kregar, if I understand you correctly, and I think I understood you well because you convinced me when you replicated Mrs. twilight. You are talking about how often the Parliament is inferior to the government or ministries, especially when it is in the position of the promoter, as is the case with this document that we are discussing today. You're saying that with the minister or at the ministry, the expertise, the possession of information is daily making decisions which makes him stronger than we are parliamentary representatives. You see, I agree with you in part here. With these 10 years of dealing with the past seven years I've been on that side, so I can tell you that I've partly agreed with you, that I've often proposed laws before the government's government's legislation is used by the services of this Parliament, the professional services of the Parliament, and I've convinced myself then and also today that often times not only among MPs, but in the professional services of this Parliament there are people who would write much better laws than those who come to the Parliament today and who you yourselves are witnessing that they are often too no-technically bad, that even laws that do not perceive the fact that the laws already passed that change these other documents, etc. etc. I would be happier if this House had repeatedly proposed laws and used not only its authority to discuss the laws proposed by the Government but also to often engage legislators and believe there are enough information and expertise and enough strength to decide daily among MPs. And the kind of relationship that you tell us exists between the government and the Parliament I disagree with because I speak, I have experience on both sides of the assembly. I think there's a lot of power in the Parliament. And there is no strong executive authority, there is no strong executive power without the strong of this legislative, or parliamentary debate, without strong parliamentarians, and we should insist on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41818	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Craiger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41819	Since you have said that you agree in part and I agree with you in part, and I think that the Parliament has not only in professional services, but primarily in the quality of the advocates one strong measure, one great power that can contribute to making proposals, not only the finished forms of the law are good and better, therefore there is a procedure. And that's why there's a Rules of Procedure. And that's why there are discussions on committees. And therefore, there are outside board members who can be very helpful in all this. I would particularly support your idea that the Parliament as a body be more active in proposing some documents or policies that are being adopted. And I think you're right about that. I've heard examples here, and I hear the bad practices that are the result, I'd say some kind of unpreparedness for the real political struggle on the open stage. I don't consider it good, but I can't say in advance that this or that proposal is good just because it didn't come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41820	Thank you. Next replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41821	Thank you very much. You have told your colleague Kregar in the context of strengthening dignity, or the reputation of the Parliament, that it is very important, that it can contribute to the style and way we speak. I completely agree with you on speaking about parliamentary representatives and MPs, but this must certainly refer to both government members and their style and the way they speak in the Croatian Parliament and generally in the Croatian public. I have a personal experience, so according to what you've been saying, about the facts the minister has at his disposal. So at the beginning of the term of office of the Prime Minister, I was very keen on often cruel objections to the opposition, issues, especially the current morning. And then I changed the tactics and decided to answer exclusively to everyone and also the most provocative question in the language of arguments, numbers, facts, so to those at the disposal of the prime minister, or those at the disposal of the minister. And that turned out to be me thinking effective. However, there is another fact that we certainly each have our own experience. Our discussions in the Croatian Parliament will hardly be able to be transferred to most media unless they are on some kind of edge or border. Or, often, those who speak at the border of insults are quoted exclusively, or who in some way rediculize reality. And that's also a fact, that's of course the heart of the media and their decision as to what and how to pass. But that's also the fact that we're facing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41822	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kregar, I sincerely expected you to talk about the inferiority that MPs put in this Rules of Procedure in relation to the government. You've excellently elaborated that Parliamentarians have no information and that information in principle for discussion... in one way or another. But it's self-inferiority. Because it's crazy to say that a parliamentary representative, let's say, we're going to report on the budget, we don't have any information on what it's like to fill the budget with 30.05. Let's say that while I was a minister, I called the press by the second or third of the month and gave information on the state of the public finances. I've been untransparent, like this. Now we can't get any information and that's okay. It's just one small remark to what you said about inferiority. Depending on how hard a man is, he's got all the data. However, this Rules of Procedure pushes indeed parliamentary representatives and this House into inferiority. Because look, the Prime Minister can do whatever he wants. When it comes to the report, it's not the government's presentation, it's the Work Report, so we can't practically discuss it. When answering the parliamentary question he has the right for 4 minutes and the minister has the right for 4 minutes and he is automatically according to this Rules of Procedure as proposed and as counterpart Stazic spoke at a given time can tell the minister now you stop now and I will answer two minutes. So it's simply given certain rights to this Rules of Procedure of the Executive Authority that no one has ever had in this House, ever! In the 1990s, however, HDZ did not have any rights given to Prime Minister Milanovic. It's a fact and it's the truth that we can't escape from. It may be appropriate for someone at this point, but I only told you, in one replica that they did to a colleague of Shakespeare when they were dissatisfied only with the fact that a certain debate is not being transmitted, they surrounded that speaker by those who today assure us that the Rules of Procedure should be arranged that the Government in the Parliament can do whatever it wants, and the parliamentary representatives have no right. So, given your knowledge and authority, I expected you to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41824	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Craiger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41825	I am, of course, saying what I think, not what you expect me to say. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you've got this habit of always throwing some intrusion out of the bench, which I don't think is good for a speaker who explains something to you. So please don't. What I recognize in your question as positive is the fact that in every decision there is something in which we should distinguish technical knowledge and represent interest. We MPs may not have technical knowledge at the level of those who are particularly and specialized in this, but we represent the interests of our constituents. And that's why what we decide about isn't a technical decision and it's not a bureaucratic procedure. We decide the interests, we decide the ones who choose us to represent them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41826	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41827	Dear Professor. You were talking about important things like ethics, morality, style in Parliament and tone. The style determines the tone. The masters who do well, who are good speakers, have one great Harris book about Cicero as he practiced his speeches. You know very well that he was stuttering, correcting his speech. I don't think there's too many harsh speakers here in the House, there's any indiscretion, there's those speakers or those speeches they should be ashamed of. I think there were rare outbursts, and they were publicly condemned in the Parliament itself when they were inappropriate, but if the temperament is sometimes a matter of individuality, a matter of character, and sometimes that temperament is temperament, it gets used to because it's known to be a matter of sublime at that point. You said sometimes there's contention and unnecessary tension around here. That tension unfortunately I've said... there's no tension. You're probably at debates when there's a little tension. That's where people fall hard asleep in the Parliament, asleep. If there were any tension, no one could sleep in the Parliament. A reputation like you said and a political influence in the House cannot be increased by some kind of false closeness of clubs that are not close to fighting for their political space. It's indisputable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41828	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Craiger, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41829	I'll be in response shortly. That's what I think I can't judge. It applies to me, too, it applies to all of us, but judgment for the sake of the audience, people and they judge whether we humans are special abilities or we're a little nervous or we have exhibitionist tendencies and so on, they judge, not us. And no one could give themselves the right in this House to evaluate it. But that doesn't mean we can't make some effort to make such a thing... I will not go into details and speak to support your claim about... I say the other will decide. [[The speaker facing the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] But if you want me to end up here... not just criticizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41830	Thank you. The word came out on behalf of the promoter Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41831	For this announcement, I was offered words that were often repeated tensions, conflicts, arguments, Parliament's reputation, a call against conflict, and that we were actually discussing a catalogue of procedures. In one replica, I accepted the invitation of one representative of a ruling coalition party, to make it as much tension as possible, and to write down rules that first make everyone clear, unequivocal and equal to everyone. And of course there will always be a situation where either of us individually can react in an inappropriate manner that is sanctioned or not sanctioned that this can cause anger, dissatisfaction, anger by the citizens of this country and disagreement with such an approach. For such personal behavior the greatest responsibility is borne by that individual but also by a party who tolerates such behavior if it happens several times. But answer again to the call to calm tensions, let there be as little conflict as possible, to talk to arguments and to make Parliament's reputation as great as possible, I now have to remind you that this proposal of the Rules of Procedure has come to pass. Professor Kregar, on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, appeared this draft Rules of Procedure. I'm a member of that committee, and at first I asked the question, how are we going to come up with a proposal because this is a draft. And I suggested and asked whether at that committee session when the first reading proposal is determined we would present comments, proposals, constructive, no cameras and media, so without the need for political points, no tensions, no conflicts, and with arguments that the author of the text is immediately showing himself about proposals, remarks and agreeing on what is being built in and then going towards first reading. Or another possibility for a week to delay the establishment of proposals and invite representatives' clubs to intervene in writing on the draft text, so that all committee presidents who are not members of the committee are invited to come to the Committee's meeting when the proposal is determined as much agreement as possible. None of the other proposals were accepted because it was said that this new rules of procedure were going into two readings and that we had to have it by 1.7. At my side was Professor Smerdl, who said why do you claim that by 1.7 we must have that Law on the Co-operation of the Government and the Parliament and this Rules of Procedure because by 15.7. nothing revolutionary will happen that Croatia will fail or lose the entry of 1.7 into the EU if these two acts are two weeks late, 15 days, 16, 14, 10. And now that we're making arguments in the debate and we're fighting for at least a little more equality in this assembly, that's the terror of minorities over most. I don't know if you've been in the hall the whole time. But that's exactly what it's called. That it's the terror of minorities above most. As for the proposal of the Code of Ethics for Parliamentary Representatives and offered by the debate of counterpart Kosor, why the Code of Parliamentary Representatives? Then why not the code for state officials? What are we? Some special sort, that someone or we ourselves should bring an ethical code of conduct, in conversation, expressions, and... and all other state officials who have far greater powers, which can make a greater, greater benefit or damage to the citizens of this country, good or bad? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which country is represented in international associations. This is the state's representation. There they decide on behalf of the government, sometimes with or without consultations with the Parliament. This, ethical code of conduct, no one dares speak. Why do we put ourselves in a situation where we settle down into a cage of groups of people who need to adopt an ethical code of conduct? Why do we agree, and in this same context, colleague Kosor said that the problem in Croatia is only parliamentary representatives due to wages, no one else. And finally, I really agree that the reputation of the Parliament and its strength in relation to the Government depends not only on the Rules of Procedure, nor on our discussions, nor on the arguments, nor on that alone. And to make it extremely useful for Parliament to produce itself, it brings more laws or other procedural acts that this Rules of Procedure allows. You're right, all of you. But now, Professor Kregar, please take the consolidated text of the agenda of this session and look at the last 15 points per suggestor. And I'll bring you 50 texts of purified agendas and watch the last 15 points per suggestor, not per content, just read the promoters. So how does Parliament achieve this or make up for its handicap in relation to the executive power and strengthen its position and reputation by laws or other acts. Let's say that the Parliament can make its own conclusion on a topic to make the Government do something, do, report, don't do it, and vice versa if such proposals stand on the agenda for three years. But it's regulated in this Rules of Procedure. Since there are no deadlines in it, it is possible for democratic and business behaviour to have any proposal from the Parliament, any club of representatives, two club representatives, a third of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And even when you get 52 signatures for an emergency procedure, you didn't choose to include it and discuss it by emergency procedure because most of them decide again. And that's exactly what we're talking about today. That is why I did not vote on the Committee for him, we are talking about this proposal that the procedural actions are a lack of deadlines because we cannot raise our reputation in Parliament or Parliament to a higher degree and to fight for a better, better starting position, position of relations with the executive authority. And on the Committee on the Constitution, not to mention the names now, it is said in the theory that Parliament is above the executive government. In practice, the Government always manages Parliament, if by any other means by agenda, by the topics and laws it proposes. Well, then, the ruling majority who can always refuse any proposal has a majority, means that's why it's ruling. By not allowing and disabling a term and procedure to discuss these proposals, it does damage the Parliament. I can illustrate it to you on two examples. On the 30th 8th of last year, and it's past time? [[Agreement: Lock up your colleague Lesar.]] That means I'll get back to you. Thank you. [[Intruder: 10 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41832	But still, I'd say that we're making progress in time most of us could have taken off the agenda already included the bill. A colleague of Craig's replicas. You have your colleague Lesar here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41833	I'm reporting just to clarify one thing, I didn't want to isolate myself into a special group or representatives because really, as you suggest, I thank you for your support. I think we should bring it to the explicity as far as public duties are concerned. So it's going to be a pretty wide circle of people. It's not like that in some countries. In some countries, the codes are only for parliament special, for executive authorities. I don't see any harm in you suggesting that we have one code that applies to all those who don't do their job for themselves but do work for others by doing public service. But let me only notice one thing, what you said to me seemed like a replica. You didn't sign up as a person who spoke on behalf of the promoter. That doesn't seem right to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41834	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41835	As a member of the board, I was obliged to clarify the procedure for the creation of a document that is being discussed for other colleagues and colleagues who do not know how to explain that there was also a different proposal for a way to come to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. And because I was listed as a proposing, I took advantage of my right to speak, and you already resent it because all the promoters at that session didn't have the same attitude. I've put it out there and here and today, and you've fallen into the contradiction of your previous position. But to shorten the story, the code of conduct of public officials. No problem, let's make a deal. You and I will start writing it. I'm offering to cooperate on it and offer it to you by autumn. ... Well, let it be a public call. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because that's what you've often talked about, so let's finally do something from the beginning to not only theoretically offer it but offer something concrete.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41836	We're continuing the debate. Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41837	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's the clue to what was said that we should constructively try to improve this proposal, let me perhaps, by a series of articles, say a few remarks and suggestions. In Article 38, it states that the Bureau of Parliament and the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives are discussing the agenda of the upcoming session of the Parliament. I have to admit, when I read it, it's so sophisticated now, actually I'd say it's a little bit of a concern, it's surprising because it's in contradiction with Article 224. Following what Professor Kregar said earlier that changes should be based on bad practice and should be amended, we and now have in Article 224 of the proposed Rules of Procedure that the agenda of the session should be proposed by the President of the Parliament as a rule in writing, delivered with a call for a session and can be changed at the sitting itself, etc. Then what is the general debate at the Bureau on the agenda when this agenda is changed later anyway and we all know that it will change according to current practice. Shouldn't it really be better to define that, or indeed, at the Bureau of Parliament each time, to define this proposal in concrete terms or to completely eliminate it because it is pointless that it can be changed afterwards. Article 65 speaks about the Committee on European Affairs. I, when it came to the Law on the Relations of this Parliament and of the Government, expressed my great skepticism which was founded in these formulations in Article 65, where it says that this committee is considering the European Union documents and the views of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union documents and may draw conclusions on them. So the Committee of this Parliament says the Rules of Procedure are allowed, that it can draw conclusions. Well, I guess it would be that he draws conclusions, that would be logical because if he can make or doesn't have to make, then what's the point of the whole story, and then it's also being discussed in the next, the government's reports on meetings, etc. So no mandate is given, in fact, the government does not have to take care of what that committee says because it can be considered, it can say something, and the government will listen to it or will not listen to it at all. What would be good to discuss is in Article 121, where it says that if the debate is not a representative of the Government, the Parliament or the Working Body can, whether the presence of the Prime Minister is necessary, the debate is interrupted or delayed. The Parliament, or working body, will decide without debate. This is the Rules of Procedure, to define how, as the Parliament considers, the Amorphan Parliament, there should be a procedure proposed if the Parliament considers the presence of the president necessary, how the debate will be interrupted and delayed. Who's gonna do it? The Council is 151 MPs at this time, therefore in the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure exist because it is precisely for the office of affairs to be defined precisely. I will not talk again about the claims in terms of the office expressed in Article 128 because it has already been said a lot today and I hope that the motionary must take into account the extent of the critical observations experienced by the fact that the prime minister will speak here for an hour, give his exposés about the state of the nation, and then the MPs will not be able to replicate it. However, a similar problem to that mentioned in the preceding article appears in article 149 when it comes to interpretation and where it is said that the representatives who have submitted the interpretation can choose their representative who has the right to attend a session of the Assembly to explain the interpretation. There's no telling how long he's been explaining it. This is exactly where it needs to be pointed out. It is similar in the same article, the same paragraph where the Prime Minister says when the interpretation was initiated, etc., when they have the right to sit orally explain the government's interpretation report. There's still no telling how much they're going to explain it, whether it's going to be 4 minutes, 10 minutes, half an hour, etc. One of the important things that I expected would appear in this Rules of Procedure and are not related to Article 157, where the relationship between the Committee on European Affairs and the Government is in fact regulated in some way. Practice, and again I'm going back to what's being said that this government wants to take the Nordic route, etc. etc. So in the Nordic and Baltic countries. We don't have to mention Denmark, which may be an extreme example, but Baltic countries, for example. Same countries in transition, similar to us by a lot of things, etc. They function in such a way that the Committee on European Affairs is meeting every week one day is usually Friday, in some countries twice Tuesday and Friday. At each of these sessions comes the Minister of European Affairs or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, depending on some countries have separate foreign ministers and ministers of European affairs, submits a report, discusses the committee with him, and the committee gives him the issues that he or she will represent in the EU. That should be defined. There's nothing here. It is not known here how often this committee is met, what is the relationship of that committee with the foreign minister, whether it should come to each session of the committee, how it will come, whether it must be specifically called, or whether it must come with automation at each session. I expected it to be in this article. This is the Rules of Procedure. This isn't some general act that the general says something. This should be precisely defined here. Unfortunately, there's nothing there. Similarly, it is related to the fundamental work of this Assembly, which is that I expected that the way of the Parliament will now finally be done precisely. There's no such thing here at all. We agreed that we would, for example, arrange the work of the Parliament so that the plenary sessions would be held on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, on Fridays that there would be a vote, on Mondays, that there would be meetings of clubs, on Tuesdays that there would be committee meetings. I was expecting it now that we're working on a new Rules of Procedure and it's going to be written inside. It's probably not in there at all because it fits the mess that exists now and it exists. The most surreal example of this mess was yesterday when it was not known which law came not on the agenda, which, who did not, jumped, skipped. Some of whom I expected to come next week have suddenly appeared yesterday and in earlier times etc. etc. If we really want the Rules of Procedure, and the purpose of the Rules of Procedure is to arrange the work of the Parliament, and if we want to arrange the way the Parliament works, then what I'm talking about right now, what we've discussed in there should be written exactly. The regulated countries and arranged parliaments have exactly the beginning of the year, they know which weeks are working weeks. In particular, here's Bundestag German working weekly, working 88 days a year. Parliaments get the exact schedules that are working days, you know when committees, you know everything. You don't know anything about us. The committees take place during parliamentary plenary sessions, not knowing if they are taking place, do not take place. So that's what I expected to be in there. There's no inside that. What happens to other proposals besides government proposals? There's already been talk about it. No deadlines, no way they show up, etc. Therefore, I think that this is simply not good, and I think that what we want to achieve is to raise the Parliament's dignity, and it will also rise if we better arrange the work of the Parliament will not unfortunately achieve this Rules of Procedure. In Article 233, where it is said that the Assembly can decide that a representative of the club can speak and longer it is not known what it is longer and who will determine it and how it will determine and by what criteria it will set, and that should also be introduced in order to stress again, and I believe that this is the wish of all of us in the Rules of Procedure to regulate how this Parliament works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41838	Thank you. Col. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41839	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Reiner, how much does anyone care about what we are discussing about this Rules of Procedure especially after the discussion on behalf of the SDP Club best talks here colleagues and colleagues take a look at all the written ones who should represent this proposal here on behalf of the Proposer. Peda hid on the side, but most of the day he's not here. So it simply speaks to the seriousness of the act that we regulate how we will be in a certain way fate to say so tomorrow, which rights, i.e. We won't have rights in this pay phone. And that's the best thing he can say about us. We simply, the ruling majority decided to do something, decided to protect the great leader, and the whole story is about it. And how the parliamentary deputies have the right to do so and so is irrelevant because in the end, when you see a colleague, Reiner, how much of the colleagues from the ruling coalition participate in the debate as much as there are in relation to the opposition, then it is clear to me how much someone cares about the debate in this House at all. Unfortunately, though, what is happening is happening, and we are where we are. I sincerely hope that this is not the twilight of democracy in the Croatian Parliament and that citizens will recognize it. Because look, the twilight of democracy is what happened yesterday with the press proposal. Because apparently some media resented someone when our words began to count. Well, that never happened. The same story is with this Rules of Procedure. I'm saying how much he's being held by those who suggest him best says how much they're in the assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41840	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41841	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I can only say that I hope that what you said will not come true, with all the skepticism that I have, and that it will not end this debate that is here for hours, even though there are fewer than 20% of the MPs in the assembly, and there are no other parallel sections, sessions, committees, nothing, so less than 20% of the MPs and MPs here at this time when we are discussing the most important act that needs to regulate our way of working. Of course, then part of the guilt is quite certain of what we will look like in the eyes of the public must fall on us, and I am going back to the basics, I hope that this will not result in the proposal of the Rules of Procedure then showing two, three minimal cosmetic changes on the second reading, and saying here we have appreciated this, and that these main things that have been very clearly shown by a series of speakers today will remain intact and remain in the Rules of Procedure which will seriously undermine Parliament's reputation and what we all hope at least verbally represent, which is the promotion of parliamentary democracy in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41842	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Reiner, I must simply give you a replica for the simple reason of my dear colleague and colleagues we cannot give the replica to the ruling because they are of course silent, they are not interested, or they are not allowed to react. Well, I'll give that replica to you. It seems to me for a year and a half that this condition and the humiliation of parliamentary representatives and parliament, perhaps now someone may call this a very rude speech, is in the interest of the ruling, or is in the interest of the government. For when a word is taken away from every council representative, when he is derrogated and humiliated, when the Parliament will truly no longer mean anything, then the Government can do whatever it wants. Because this Parliament is the only one who has the ability to point out irregularities from its midst in the morning, and that's all they have left. Indeed no one asks the worker who stayed, asks no one or aunt in kindergarten because she didn't get paid, doesn't ask the student how he pays for his schooling, the young man why he doesn't have a job, he can't be heard. We're the only ones who can carry the voice of such people, and we're taking it away. I think it's an emergency and that's exactly what this government wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41844	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41845	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the distinguished MPs, unfortunately, are correct, and this institution of replicas that has been established seems to be one of the few possibilities for certain things to be articulated. I hope it doesn't happen in some new version and it changes and disappears. However, by wanting to be constructive, I will use what you have now asked me to say very clearly about certain articles that I have not said before, and this is related to Article 203, where it is stated that the third reading of the law is being implemented by the Parliament or at the request of the proposings, and in cases where a number of amendments have been adopted to the final proposal of the law or where amendments are such as to significantly alter the content of the final draft of the law. My suggestion is to define what a number of amendments mean. A large number can mean three amendments and one to the law, since it is not, of course, how many articles there are. Sometimes we have laws with six articles, here's what we talked about this morning. There are three articles completely different laws. And in a law that has, say, 250 articles 3 articles are a totally minor thing. So I suggest that this is precisely defined by the Proposer and that, instead of one dim notion, a larger number of amendments are precisely said, I don't know half of the articles, let's say, or two-thirds of the articles, it doesn't matter how much but to specify them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41846	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41847	Dear colleague Reiner before you spoke of a riot that reigns at plenary sessions and you took an example the last day. However, that last day confirms how it is done in the Parliament. What do you say we do yesterday and what else is being done in the Parliament? Those points that can be discussed are required. And what points can we discuss? Which ministers are ready for that. So we're looking for ministers who are ready, ministers who are free, but he doesn't wonder what's most important is whether parliamentary deputies are ready to argue? The ministers do not discuss it, but the MPs discuss it. And then jump from the first point I don't know from the third point to the eleventh point that was supposed to be the next day and quite normally there's no discussion, no quality debates, must be improvised. He must ask himself the same question among the MPs who are willing to discuss it. I think it's only important for the parliamentary majority to just put the clutch on that item of the agenda, say it or hit the seal and say it's done and what's done sloppy, which we didn't actually perform our function because we couldn't and those who wanted it not to prepare it, so it's necessary to set the dates, deadlines and at least to agree that no agenda at the session that's scheduled to change unless they're on the emergency agenda that we know no one will mind. And not on Friday or Monday, Tuesday, when we meet here in the Parliament to supplement the agenda points and start from that agenda point with which we have complemented the agenda. And that's what no one's complaining about. Well, of course not those who don't care to discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41848	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41849	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I must absolutely agree with you. And unfortunately, he wants to maintain this state of blissful disorder also speaks the philosophy of Article 228 which says, first he says, "after the agenda has been established, the President of the Parliament announces a set agenda," the office. "At the beginning of each working day of the meeting of the President of the Parliament, it usually publishes what points of the agenda will be discussed that day." And then it comes, however, to each other in contradiction, but then comes the turn "once during the session extremely", during the session of that same day "it can change the order of debate and decision if there is no report of the proposing or government's competent working bodies for each item of the agenda". So now think it's the legalization of the mess, exactly the mess we're having right now. Therefore, during the day it may be changed, so if there is no report by the competent working authorities. So how are we gonna function if we don't know in the morning if there's a work-body report? Well, she should have done it already. If there are no proposings, so what kind of a proposer who is not worthy to come here at all, so... it had to be very clear that this item is being downloaded from the agenda at all, because if the motionor including the government doesn't care about it and there's no motive to come here at all, so what we have to discuss is what anyone has to discuss. So, unfortunately, that's exactly what you said, and now we're just sanctioning this mess in the form of articles. If that's how we accept it and let's be aware of it, and let's not be surprised when people say we're like this or we're like this because we're doing this to ourselves with these rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41850	We continue the discussion of colleagues Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41851	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I was inspired by this amendment and by the additions of the Rules of Procedure to a slightly different discussion, i.e. some colleagues and colleagues have already talked about it and this is a good opportunity to think about the position of the Assembly or parliamentary representatives in society and to raise awareness of their real role. Unfortunately, today it is already said in all polls that citizens experience politics and politicians as one of the most negative phenomena and the most negative people in society. The MPs are at the bottom and these scales. He sees us as the worst of the bad, he sees us as the most corrupt politicians in the world, even though I have to admit it, I really don't understand how some MP can be corrupt in the first place and why. By the way, in reality, there is a general impression that parliamentary representatives have fallen from somewhere more or less from nowhere and have not earned that function and position. It is publicly said that parliamentarians only spend large taxpayers' money, do nothing, have great privileges and make all the wrong decisions at the expense of those they have chosen. That is, unfortunately, an impression or as we like to say today to the public about us parliamentary deputies, which is clearly not entirely true. That's why, for the most part, it's our fault and not just us, but the MPs from the past convocations who have left us with such a bad view of our business. I think we should all try to change that picture together. It is not easy and it is a long and painful process and it is certainly in my opinion, except for us to include parliamentary services, especially the Public Relations Service. And it is important, not so much because of ourselves in this mandate, but because of the overall importance of politics, so does politicians. If we don't all together make the image of politicians change for the better, we will contribute ourselves to the negative selection in politics. The aim of society as a whole should be for politicians, and especially for parliamentary representatives to be the best people Croatia has. The current perception in the public is the largest number of best-quality people and they don't want to deal with politics at all and despise it as if it's contagious. It's not a good perspective. Politics is inevitable and without it no state can function, and no society can function. Today's form of liberal democratic states of the developed world and sovereign representative democracy are in all their imperfections the most perfect form of political representation and representation of the interests of citizens and citizens. And there's no other better form of politics in the tracks. In all these and such circumstances, we must all find ways together to raise the image of politics and politicians. Simply because of attracting as many high-quality, high-quality people as possible who will then lead a quality and best quality policy. Clearly, it will never be achieved by cheap pulsism, just a clear, reasonable, modern argument. As far as citizens themselves are concerned, there are sovereign ways to make citizens more participatory in everyday politics. especially as my colleagues from the HNS, I am very prone to the part of the public and the open state. We believe that even after the elections, regardless of which side they voted, citizens have the right but in some way the obligation to question and look for the results of the work of the country's achievements and processes. It is necessary to fully demystify and open institutions to citizens. And that's why I welcome the idea of a great idea to open the House of Citizens door. ...a couple of examples that I think would be good to get into the new draft Rules of Procedure, and they're not. I think it would be good, for example. Add to the Rules of Procedure to edit the rules of procedure, e.g. Management of the Parliament. That would, in my opinion, mean, say, the opening of a constituency souvenir shop. Or maybe, I'm looking at cameras here, maybe expand the activities of constituency television. There are other ways to control the Parliament. Furthermore, I think the Rules of Procedure should state that each parliamentary representative must be provided with space and working conditions. That doesn't say. I believe that in reality, but also in the Rules of Procedure, it should be written that each representative has the right to an expert advisor. It's just some, some of the thinking about working on parliamentary deputies, I'm not going to talk about all those articles that my colleagues used to talk about. I think it would be very good for the perception of Parliamentarians in public to establish a public award of annual awards. Parliamentary representatives of the position and parliamentary representatives of the opposition and each other's choice. The High Prize of the Society's Development Assembly should certainly be established. The parliament should award awards to Croatian dignitaries for special contributions to the development of society. Certainly, it would be a good idea to establish a reward for the best official or official. These are just ideas that could also contribute to improving the work of Parliamentarians as well as the image of the Parliament in general. But it certainly isn't enough or only, it's just some of the little different ideas. The image of politicians, our parliamentary representatives, depends to the greatest extent on ourselves, our level of communication, the quality of discussions, honesty and political culture. I would like us in this assembly to be remembered at the end of our term by the fact that we who have begun the process of reaffirming politics, politicians and parliamentary representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41852	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41853	Here's a colleague of yours you've suggested to award the best parliamentary representatives, so here I suggest immediately that my colleague Vinkovic be declared a hitter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41854	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41855	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. These replicas of ours, excuse me, Mr. Blažević, for this idyllic debate of yours, do make a little contribution to a little bit of a smile. That's so idyllic you said that really here I have to say it's like we're not living here right now, but somewhere else. And just this thing about rewards, I was going to say that it would really be good luck for us to reward each other. So many of us have already been robbed so that these rewards would be very good if they were won. I think Mr. Blazekovic might not be able to get out of the building what people would do to us, I'm serious. Besides how we're going to reward the ruling when they don't say anything. Well, then, the reward for silence. That golden silence. Here, for example. That, that would be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41856	We're continuing the debate. My colleague, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41857	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, here's what I'm going to do for a short, short, really short notice. First of all, about the promoters that we talked about a lot, that's all, of course, part of what we want to achieve in the Rules of Procedure. The Proposer of the Rules of Procedure shall be the Committee on the Constitution, etc. And here, of course, is clearly stated all the board members except those who are present in the European Parliament as our observers who are members of the Committee on the Constitution. I think all other colleagues and colleagues, members of the Constitution Committee, had to be in the assembly all day long today and hear what other colleagues have to say. And the bill of law, the relations between the Government and the Parliament in European affairs. But certainly especially about the Rules of Procedure. Because the Rules of Procedure is something that will certainly determine the way we will work, in which we will respect one another, respect each other in the coming times. The Rules of Procedure are certainly one of those acts that should not be changed frequently. So it's one of those acts that shouldn't, like the Constitution, be exposed to continuous changes. So, depending on who's in power, who's in opposition. It's supposed to be a document brought by consensus. And about which after the next few years there is no dispute where we all agree more or less about all ensuring our working conditions, but also the way we're going to work. I believe that everyone will agree that the framework for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, the framework for the Rules of Procedure, is the whole of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines what the Parliament, which is the Government, what is the relationship between the Government and the Parliament and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, clearly states that we live in a system of parliamentary democracy in which the Government corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, the government is elected in the Croatian Parliament, and that is the source of everything else that is actually to be brought or what we need to change in this Rules of Procedure. I therefore agree with all colleagues who pointed to these double criteria in the election, in the election of government members. So there are no ministers of higher and lower order, there are no ministers and there can't be a minister because I think it's unconstitutional that we choose one minister, or we discuss them at a plenary session, and the other ministers are only being discussed by committees or committees. Because it can happen when we have accepted such a principle that some ministers who we could qualify as ministers of the second order are only elected so that they are represented and discussed on committees that practically, because it does not say here in the Rules of Procedure that they do not even appear at their session, it is decided here without debate and that actually representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not know who this person is, so they do not know, that tomorrow they meet him on the street that they cannot recognize him. I, of course, may be a bit of a cartoon, but that possibility is possible because the Rules of Procedure does not say whether or not the minister proposed by the Prime Minister who is re-elected here and how then we will eventually know who the ladies and gentlemen have become a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I think that this provision certainly does not comply with the Constitution, the Constitution clearly says that the government is elected and that members of the government are elected and all members of the Government must be elected in the same way. Of course, in past times, it has not been a practice for ministers to personally represent themselves here and that they can eventually answer the questions of the MPs and that is correct. That's what happened in the past tense, and that's how it is now. But why don't we slowly change that practice, I think it would be good, so I'm also speaking with my experience and members of the government so that it would be good for the ministers to say something about their programme here, so I can answer what question of MPs. Someone who is proposed to be a minister in the Croatian government who heads the state must be ready to stand here and answer any and most difficult question because as you see it in the European Parliament as well. Our representative in the European Commission must certainly answer questions, and he must sweat very hard to finally vote here today. So I propose to my colleagues from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to reconsider this proposal. He will cause unnecessary new debates, new disputes absolutely without any need. And something that is related to the annual report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, it is something of course not there, at least I failed to interpret the Constitution and those provisions of the Constitution relating to the work of the Government because the provisions of the Constitution that speak of the work of the Government do not speak in any way about the Prime Minister, therefore there is no such thing, but if we all agree, we can introduce this practice that the Prime Minister comes to the Croatian Parliament and that he is talking about the state of the country. But in that case, I think, because of the fact that we live in a system of parliamentary democracy, first of all, it must be possible for each representative and each representative to discuss this report, not only clubs, but every representative and every MP, because we are all elected, for each of us today and for each of us, someone voted and we all represent a number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And if the prime minister came and talked about the state of the country then we'd all have a chance, of course we wouldn't all take advantage of that opportunity and not everyone would talk, but we'd all have to get that chance to say something and say the position and opinion of our voters. I think it's something that's in itself understandable. The Committee on European Affairs, therefore co-ordinating, overseeing the work of the Government, or coordinating and cooperating, organises cooperation between Parliament and the Government, reiterates the proposal in the debate on this law, so I think that this committee should be representatives of all clubs because it is a committee that gets a completely new, different and extremely significant role when Croatia becomes members of the European Union. And something of course that does not have a particular foothold in the Rules of Procedure, but something from practice in our work, and about Parliament's dignity and how citizens perceive us, I suggest that in the future we still advertise a break in our work, I say it may be a completely irrelevant thing. At the time of the break, however, committee meetings can be organised, and committees can be held at the time of the break, because we are in no way able to explain to the citizens why it is an empty assembly. Well, because some of them are on board. People don't understand it at all, and then we get it as a feedback echo, you're all the same, all of you don't do anything and repeat it, and critics refer exclusively to the Croatian Parliament and representatives and MPs. We really turn out to be the last things and people who really just spend other people's time and money here, and as we know, it's not like that. So I propose that we set a break, if there is a need at a time when the plenary session for committee meetings should be held at the time of the break, and then eventually many MPs who would like to be at the debate must be on board or must prepare themselves because it comes to some point that we did not count on. I think it will improve our successful work as well. Thank you very much. And finally, the Rules of Procedure do not have to be adopted until 1 July, until Croatia enters the European Union, it is in itself understandable, we have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41858	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41859	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, for any change in anything, the law, the Rules of Procedure, the rules need a reason, a motive is needed and an explanation is needed. In this section where you said that certain ministers are having new discussions only on committees, and not in the Assembly, there is no reason why this is done in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, there is no motive why this is being transferred, and there is no explanation of what is being obtained at all. It's just a change of offer. You said she was outside the Constitution. Such a change is I don't know here outside the Constitution but it's also beyond common sense. Is that minister possibly going to give his oath to the board? Will the board vote on him? He doesn't have to come to Parliament then. And what has ever been discussed here or any appointment that no debate has opened, and so many of the most insignificant functions have been held and the ministerial function is one of the most important in the Republic of Croatia and the most responsible and powerful if you will. And there's no possibility of a debate. Where, then, will a higher dose of impatience toward the Parliament be seen on the other side of Mark's square. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41860	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41861	We really need to do everything first and foremost that what was good and what was good and what was in itself understandable, what was logical, but also what I repeat and according to the Constitution remains that way. Why do I think that this is very questionable from the constitutional-legal point of view? Therefore, because the Constitution clearly determines that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is elected in the Assembly. Otherwise, the constitution would determine that ministers, some ministers are elected on boards, some ministers are elected at a plenary session. The Constitution does not know it says in the Croatian Parliament. It is in itself understandable that it is a plenary session where it is discussed and ultimately voted. This Rules of Procedure foresees voting on it, I now call it the Minister of Second Order, to vote here. However, there is no such thing as a reason, there is no reason or explanation for why it would be so. So that's clearly what the promoters think it is, because it's like a replacement minister coming to another showroom. But it's not the same. Each minister was appointed and 10 days before the end of the government's work has equal importance and equal value. And I think that the persons of ministers and ministers who would have been elected in this way, so that only on committees or committees would not have taken it well. Anyone who becomes a member of the government first of all is an opportunity that is given to the rare. It's a huge honor and commitment. Therefore, they must come before Parliament and I repeat if it is possible to go towards and answer what question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41862	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41863	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleague Kosor. Therefore, regarding these powers to committees or discussions by committees, i.e. today a very problematic question of whether the appointment or a proposal for appointment of new ministers and ministers will be held before the committee or at the plenary session. Personally, I think it's exaggerating. I'm not entering constitutional law. It seems to me that a lot of people have been doing this in a lot of different ways lately. But this is what I remind you of. First board meetings are public. In exceptional cases, individual committees are closed to the public because of certain documents. Second, all 151 MPs and deputies may attend one session of the committee. The seats are open. A session can be held in this hall. Who says he can't? Or it could be held in Little Council. All those who are interested and want to ask questions on the board of any of the proposed ministers or ministers can do so, and the appointment and vote is being held at the plenary session anyway. And, Comrade Kosor, I think I understand you very well. You spoke, you also mentioned today the elected Croatian representative of the Commissioner. He answered questions before the committee in charge, and today the European Parliament voted on the positions and proposals that came from the committees in charge. And I think that, in this way, fellow Mimica, our now respected member in the European Commission, is not in any way diminished. I don't see any reason why this wouldn't happen tomorrow, and that's more personally sorry, but there's still going to be more talk about the Rules of Procedure that both other things and other discussions we have at the plenary session have no reason not to transfer them to committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41864	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41865	It's exactly what you said about my colleague Mimica. I also congratulate him once again on behalf of all of us. It is a great honor to be the first commissioner on behalf of 28 EU members. However, we return to our Rules of Procedure. There's still a big question here why. So why do some ministers come to the plenary session, and why would the other ministers come only to committees? And that is, I continue to repeat the only question that must be related to the Constitution, constitutional provisions and the fact that we live in a system of parliamentary democracy, and that all ministers in each Croatian government must be elected by the same procedure as all MPs in the Croatian Parliament must be elected by the same procedure as all persons elected by the Croatian Parliament from here to the director of the HRT. So, we can't if it happens now, don't God forbid the governor leaves for some reason, then there's a proposal coming up for another governor to choose, or discuss it only on committees. It simply couldn't go, it would also be against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41866	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41867	I apologize to my colleague Kosor for a little abuse, you said God forbid the governor leaves, I say God forbid he leaves because he advocates neoliberal capitalism. So don't look after him. So, what I was saying, I realized about the same minister's treatment. It's a matter of treatment, so it's a matter of criteria. It should be explained why the tourism minister will answer to the board, means to introduce himself to the board and why some other minister will not come to the plenary session alone. I would agree with the fact that it says in the Rules of Procedure that all ministers present themselves on the parent boards and that on the parent committees, committees can question them, resolve them, and then the chairman of the parent committee here gives his impressions and that the minister sits with, if the entire government is represented, then it is a second procedure, that the minister sits with the prime minister representing the Government. I think it's a procedure, that we have what is unequivocal to know what we're doing. But there's no such thing. In the end, I'd just ask one question, now you've defended the MPs of Parliament that when they're gone, they're often on board. Tell me which board is now in session? Mostly when there are no parliamentary representatives, we must not lie to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41868	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41869	About this last one, today was the situation, and that's what some colleagues here in the assembly said. I have a colleague in front of me when an extremely important debate had to go to the meeting of an important committee as well. Every committee is equally important. So here's what I'm interpreting from today's practice. But here's by continuing to think about this, I wouldn't want anyone in the assembly, and he understands this debate about these double ways of electing government members as something ominous. I think this is our joint Rules of Procedure. Tomorrow it will refer to another ruling majority, tomorrow it will refer to another opposition. It is therefore something that concerns all of us, and then concerns also Croatian citizens and citizens. Let's say that it happens, then why doesn't the Rules of Procedure predict it, that some situation that we unfortunately had in 2009 happen that the prime minister leaves and then the ruling majority, so the joint signings of the MPs, goes to the president of the state he gives the mandate... he comes again and represents his government. So, that the prime minister who comes after this first and everything is in the same term is elected so that it is discussed only on committees or on one committee. So it might be analogous to predicting such a situation if the next prime minister, who, in the same term of office, only discusses the Committee on the Constitution because the prime minister is the first, only first, the minister and nothing else, is.' The prime minister is the first minister. So these are the illogicalities that should certainly be well considered so that we do not really get a strange beak instead of a Rules of Procedure that we will all be as pleased with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41870	And Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41871	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Kosor, you spoke about the treatment of parliamentary representatives, in general and the treatment of the government. It is obvious that this Rules of Procedure is somehow trying to preserve the prime minister of the present. You remember very well recently you were the prime minister yourself and you know very well what you were experiencing in these Assembly halls as prime minister. The opposition at the time I think that if you had brought such a proposal to the Rules of Procedure would have made collective harakiri here or would no longer have participated as they did not participate, they did not even have the power of a particular minister present to address you with the distinguished Madam Prime Minister or Prime Minister but only Mrs Kosor called you Mrs. Kosor. It doesn't matter, but my question is, and it's a good thing what you just said, who is this Rules of Procedure working for? Only for Zoran Milanovic and the SDP or do we do it for any prime minister, any prime minister, for us parliamentary deputies, what are we doing for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41872	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41873	Thank you very much. Well, the prime minister is, of course, the person who is, according to both the Constitution and practice, the head of the executive government, most responsible in that sense, responsible for everything that is not good, and of course not at all deserved, it is always so, for even the smallest little thing that is good. That's why I agree there were very unpleasant situations. So, if I were to say sometimes as your prime minister, there was a push out of the opposition, you're not our prime minister. But anyway, I was of course trying to keep up with the work I was doing. What am I saying? The prime minister should not be protected or defended in Parliament, the prime minister must defend himself by his competence, by his work, by his perseverance, by his knowledge, and then some results will eventually come. This is the case with Mr Milanovic and all previous ones, and I believe in all future prime ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41874	Thank you. Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41875	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, among other things, there was one assessment that the loss of credibility and reputation of both the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament was the result of poor practice. So allow, in that sense, a few comments or remarks to this draft of this or the proposal of this Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said so far, but I'd still start with two things that I don't think if we don't change them, or if we don't adopt them, that everything else will still be a part of bad practice. I believe this is what my colleague Reiner said about the annual work plan of the Croatian Parliament. I do not know if there is an EU member who has not adopted an annual work plan, including the European Parliament. Therefore, I think that here we should determine that the presidency together with the club presidents must, at the beginning of the calendar year, bring an annual work plan, to know exactly what days the plenary sessions are, when the parent committees are, when the clubs are. The second condition that goes with it and I join those advocates who advocated it, that the agenda must be fixed. There is no reason if the practice of the government is Thursday, the agenda is extended on Friday. There is no reason for this agenda not to last at least until next Friday, the next week. Any other observations which go to the expense of the representatives and are not here, and which have not been prepared fall into the water if these two assumptions for the work of the Parliament are not available. And in that sense, there's a third remark that I think should be adopted here, there's a number of others, but I don't think they're said. Article 174 should oblige the legislators to report all procedures that have been participated in the debate on the draft law referred to in the parliamentary procedure. I think it's one minimum, in my opinion it should give an analysis of the current state, but it usually shrinks in one sentence. But this is an assumption of what most people can call for transparency, etc., if it doesn't simply remain empty words. Another set of questions I would like to warn is about certain provisions. There is a provision in this proposal that parent committees should discuss certain topics. However, it is not specified that the opinion of the home working body must precede the debate at the plenary session or that no plenary session can be discussed without the opinion of the parent committee. Furthermore, what has been said about the appointments of members of the government, I will not repeat that just joining that opinion. But another one of these examples that I think is going in some way to break up the role of the Parliament in view of this introduction of the Committee on European Affairs. Article 154 states that the Committee on European Affairs will send the position of the Republic of Croatia to the home working body and not to all working bodies. I don't see why all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wouldn't be familiar with it. Or Article 155 states that EU documents in the field of security policy will be forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Policy, not to the Committee on National Security or to the Committee on Defence when the issue of security is not so much anymore, I think let it go to foreign policy but it is not exclusively or predominantly foreign policy. That's another set of objections. The third concerns the work of the Internal Policy and National Security Committee itself, where it should be taxed that this committee is responsible for the control and supervision of police work. Also, what is new is not defined, and if it is responsible for EU security policy, do I not know which other one, namely, it is by the nature of things falls under this committee. It's as if this committee is also in charge of overseeing all members of the security intelligence system. Today it is how what law has been passed over the years and some are not standing in some segments, and some segments are out of control of what this committee can do or is specified to do, and on the other hand it is not done. I say, it seems to me that the beginning of the introduction of order and the achievement of such an opportunity to assess the evaluation and overall work of the Parliament and the MPs is to define the work programme, the annual work plan and the agenda during the session. One comment on this assessment whether the representatives are present at the session or not. We have already heard that my colleague Plenkovic said that the practice of both the European Parliament and other parliaments, as we know from our own experience, is that somehow the presence of this or the presence of representatives and representatives is as much as here. However, the assessment of why this is, or how it affects the work of MPs and the reputation of MPs depends on a number of other factors that we simply do not have. Parliamentarians have no space, adequate space, parliamentary representatives do not have professional services adequate. The leadership of the assembly does not discuss the strategy of completing the parliament's infrastructure so that parliamentary deputies can do the job as it belongs. I think I already mentioned that here during these discussions that some of the less than 600 MPs in the German Parliament have the help of 2600 experts, not a secretary or something like this, but 2600 advisers, as we would say or professional associates. We don't have a perspective or a projection of how much that should be, how much it should be. On the other hand, when it is said, if it is to assess the work of MPs, then it should be seen which amount of material is mandatory for MPs to pass and where they can do so and in what way. And what it's really like if it has a pile of paper like this, how many hours of work it takes if it's going to be done solidly. I don't think 24 hours in 7 days a day would be, 7 days a week wouldn't be enough time. Therefore, I would be more careful with such an assessment, precisely because we lack a number of other indicators, or all the elements should in some way be installed in this Rules of Procedure so that we can rightly say that the parliamentary representatives have not done their job. There are a number of other elements that could be specified but then subsequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41876	Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41877	A colleague... You have instructed the reasons for the absence and half-empty hall and you have seen well both about, and about the treatment and status, sometimes inappropriately which MPs have in the Croatian Parliament from conditions to many other and material but also spatial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reasons are both subjective and objective. But there are also those who can prevent themselves. But, for example, there are several, many representatives who act in other functions. I think that, for the future of parliamentaryism, for the future of a better quality policy and the work of a quality representative, it is not possible to behave more functions at the same time. I'm just an agent, I don't get to get any sleep reading the paperwork. I don't know how anyone can be mayor of Rijeka or Split or the mayor and be a representative. Of course he can't be in the Law of Physics at the same time in two places. ... Okay, he was, he could... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thus, the head of the municipality can sometimes also be the director of a state-owned company in two different places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about many things that make it difficult to work exactly the work plan and the lack of proper agenda that is not respected. And I think you could bring a lot more quality here. I think there's a proposing here and he's heard a lot of suggestions. This proposal for a new Rules of Procedure has good solutions in the proposal itself, much better than it was but there are new solutions that are worse than the existing ones. Only if part of the new solutions were left out worse would this be a great proposal. So let's not throw the manuscript aside, the government's handwriting from this Rules of Procedure, let's leave only the Rules of Procedure, which is governed by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41878	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41879	As far as these very evaluations of MPs are concerned, it's a clear matter that a series of elements are needed. If we take an example because Mr. Rainer was saying that, the German Parliament is sitting for 22 days, 22 weeks a year, in other words, how much did he calculate it,... Less, it is, five months and out of it are plenary sessions day and a half alone, Thursday as long as it lasts at night and Friday to 2, 3 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But what's the point? So the MPs then have the other 8, 7, 8 months to, 7 months to work or something else or prepare for this. However, in what is the point, they have expert teams where they cannot be wronged either in writing the law or in copying or in duplication. Therefore, a large amount of people work behind it. So the answer in my opinion is whether or not someone else can do something else depends on what conditions he has here and how this entire Parliament will function. And it seems to me that he's on that trail without it, we'd have to look for solutions, not simply a flat rate. I mean, I wasn't thinking about you, I was thinking about you. I was thinking about you. On the other hand, we have something that I think would be normal, which is that all MPs, even with this electoral system where we have 10 electoral units, have their offices by county or municipalities from where they're being included, come and sit there regularly, twice, three times a month or how much that relationship should be different. Therefore, what I am pleading for is that we have, that we have one analysis with an assessment of possible investment in this Assembly, i.e. the Croatian Parliament's infrastructure as an institution, so that the efficiency of the MPs and this House will be as high as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41880	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41881	Dear colleague Tudjman, I liked your idea that you put forward, which is that if we get to the benches of the bill it would be good to get the information about it, the information, who took part in the public debate. But it would also be very good to see what is said in this public debate, which is appreciated, which is not appreciated and why it is not respected. Then it would be one basis, quite certainly some knowledge we don't have today. So it's possible to do why these materials exist on the Internet, we don't need to print them, but we can get them online. And most logically, what you have suggested and what we stand for in the Croatian Parliament, however, logic often pushes aside the haughtiness of the authorities that say we can do anything. It's perfectly logical that we have at least a week's schedule, that we can't move that week's schedule, that we know that next week we have to figure out what we're going to discuss next week and that logic that was announced by the Kukuriku coalition, Monday's clubs, Tuesday's committees, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Friday's plenary session. Is that so hard to do? Well, it's not hard to do. This is total chaos and a total mess that I don't know why it supports the Kukurik coalition because it doesn't contribute well to them and why it's difficult. So work hours, work days, do some sort of order. And what you said, as you said, Mr. Plenkovic stated, I disagree that it is good, but I agree with you that you should invest in it. That's what you said to the example of Germany 4, a little more than 4 advisors have every MP. European representatives in the European Parliament will have their offices in Zagreb, our offices or elsewhere in Croatia. They will have employees like they will have 3 employees, each parliamentarian will have 3 employees in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41882	Thank you. Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman. You picked up the tile, thank you. And Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41883	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Professor Tudjman, I agree with you that the capacity and parliamentary representatives should in some way be raised through this Rules of Procedure. In fact, you spoke nicely and it is in the interest of the public to finally say that we, most of us MPs, but the largest majority of us write our own debates, we manage how we can and how we can. So here's what I can say, 10 to 12, sometimes 12 comes into our room, we have one half-defiled computer. So that internet is very hard to come by. 12 of us can't all be there at the same time. Who's to blame now? We're lucky to have a great room down here on the ground floor and we're lucky to have that one computer. We don't even have our own advisors, we can have our own volunteers. We don't have our phones, we don't have our own rooms, we don't have any kind of solved questions about us who are from Zagreb, we're neither public transport nor city transport, and we don't complain again. And yet through the media hack when we're being attacked, we don't even have the protection of our President-in-Office Parliament to say it's not true, it's not true that they're unemployed, it's not true that they're getting paid. So it's also said, Mr. Professor, this electronic recording. Well, that's just a hoax because here's a distinguished colleague, Tyrelli, asked to print it, and probably Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament knows that. So he says to some MPs that they've come in, for example. At 10:00, they got in at 11:00, and they got out at 5:00 in the morning. That print can sometimes serve as a police document, it's simply inadmissible. How did that happen...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41884	Time's up. Replication response Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman. [[Okay, I'll continue with this, it's interesting, you should know that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41885	In this regard, I agree with this remark that you have said, and the problem is, that is, the answer can go in this direction as restrictions, the budgets are gone, we can't be spatial, etc. However, the problem is that in my opinion, at least as far as I know or as far as we can, there is no debate and there is no projection in which direction this assembly will be called, so to call this infrastructure or support for MPs in the Assembly to plan and develop. On the other hand, I think it is possible in these circumstances to find some kind of solution that would not be acceptable, which is that in the constituencies office is formed where MPs could at least go there for a certain time to work or have support. But the clear point is, the assumption is that we know the schedule when the Parliament will be sitting and not sitting so that we know where we're going to be so that we can plan our time and our work obligations. What is missing, and if we are talking about the Rules of Procedure, it is not at all predicted that such things are being discussed and how these projections will be realised. That's what's another one of the shortcomings of this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41886	Comrade Josip Boric, here's to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41887	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's me at the end of the day to say something about this subject. I think it is the duty of each of us to try to provide ourselves with good conditions so that we can both democratically and constructively and in the best way and work and participate in the debates and thus carry out our duty. When a change or a proposal is something we all expect will be better, that we should go for better, but this impression after we have read the Rules of Procedure is that we have simply gone towards a worse Rules of Procedure than we have so far. Because what I've already said today, I have a feeling that the ultimate goal has been lost, that we don't even see it at all, even though the aim is to democratisation the process and the effectiveness of this House's work. However, if we are to democratisation the process and improve the efficiency of the work there are articles where this is brought into conflict with one another, so we have heard today, it means that we will speed up the process of appointing a minister, but we will reduce the democratisation of the process. As soon as that is so, and there are a lot of such articles, I think everyone should still be discussed on other bodies and between these two readings and make it really not happen. Because if we really want to justify this democratisation process or some kind of work efficiency, I think it would be a good idea not to conflict through certain articles of the Rules of Procedure. I think that these two words of democratisation process and the efficiency of work are followed by many other articles through the text, so certain provisions are really conflicting, and it would be good to know then finally what we want. What's my impression of the Parliament? I came to the Parliament in the 1990s as a citizen and for 8 years as a member of the government and the executive authority sat there. Now I'm sitting here, so I've been through one whole procedure and I can say that looking at the 90th part of Parliament's representatives in a different arrangement and the system that then the parliamentary representative was something else than the parliamentary representative today. Whether we lost it through a different arrangement, so when we went from presidential to parliamentary, let's say we call it parliamentary democracy it's possible that there have been some mistakes as well. Sometimes it seems to me that when we go through these spaces, when we participate in these discussions, when we see the role of an institution, the President of the Parliament is an institution that has the strength of words, which can and whose strength is measured. Sometimes it seems to me that we have a President of the Parliament acting as a duty. I think we need a president who'll do something for us. It's not the same thing either to act or to do. When we go out after four years to say that we have done it, that and that and that the position of both this Parliament and parliamentary representatives is different or better than it was the moment we entered. I think that should be the role of President of the Parliament. And in order to make changes to the above, the last amendments to the Rules of Procedures that revolved around replicas and correcting the incorrect quote. Then it's said we're going to cut or speed up the procedure, so we're going to introduce replicas and ban the correction of an incorrect quote. What happened? We've extended the procedure. And it happened because, through the provisions of the article, the position of the executive authority gave new opportunities. After a year and a half of experience, we can tell and notice where the stalemate is. The stalemate occurs at a time when the minister who is the legislator of the law, using his own options, creates a stalemate. First he's on behalf of the club for half an hour, then he's got a set of replicas, then the first club, and then he wants to fix the club right away. He takes his 10 minutes again, then the second club, then the replicas, and we're only about three to four o'clock in the afternoon when some little stronger law ends only clubs under one bill of law. Because we gave the executive power what they shouldn't have given. If you already have a debate for 30 minutes, if you have the opportunity to go out behind every club to say why you think we should give you the opportunity to rephrase it forever after every exposure, and that he has the right to answer immediately. He practically talks all day if he wants to, he talks all day if he wants to. Can we fix that? I'm sure we can. We've noticed where the stasis is. We'll be quicker if there's any will amongst the ruling. The question is whether there is, because I say these changes that should go faster or for better actually all the time seem to be working for us, and actually they go in favor of the executive authority and we think more about these changes than we do about us. We've shown that we can do 10 points a day, we can do one, we can do one in two days, it's actually the most I'm saying about the one who's using his options. Have we, in any way, been treated as parliamentary representatives as an image in the eyes of Croatian citizens? Personally, I don't think that we've fallen, that we're also talking about polls that always say we're a two, and we're hardly a two in the rating of Croatian citizens. What's the reason for that anyway? Recently there was one I would also call it a blow or a reckoning with parliamentary deputies when in some way they were reported as examples of politicians who were not only ineffective, who extorted from this budget from a society of some large amount of money that had a lot of privileges and such an image was sent almost a full month outward. What should the citizens say about that? Has anyone stepped in to protect these constituencies, the same MPs? I think that apart from a few individuals, it is hardly possible to say that we have managed to get out of it at all, because if it is normal or if it is a high salary for Croatian taxpayers, the one we have today may be whether we have a high salary for our minister from tomorrow at the European Commission. It is also paid by Croatian taxpayers. Can we even put such situations in these relationships? What do we want from this Croatian Parliament in the first place? We are today in this monolithity of the government that we have, we have the president of the state of one party, the Prime Minister of the same party, President of the Parliament of the same party. We've lost criticism among the institutions, there's no one to tell someone there's something wrong, there's no power except the opposition. And then today we hear that the opposition needs to be put in some percentage up to 5.6%, so you're going to say as much as I tell you. Is it a little critical that it comes out of these institutions that we have, which are the only Croatian citizens choosing at this state level, are we also to silence through certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure? I don't think that's the way to go. In fact, when we see it, it should be different because we've only had this system for a year and a half. It wasn't like that before, it wasn't like that. What's good here? Technology. Here I'm glad that these tons of paper are finally going into history, that we won't have them anymore, that in some way electronic form is something that is acceptable and faster today because really when we look at what this looks like here, I think we should have gone beyond what line, so here it is commendable and I'm glad to finally get rid of it. With anyone looking and needing to get paper has the right to get and paper print. However, we also have in these technologies and electronic voting. We haven't voted electronically in a year and a half yet. Why? And I hear and know that this system works, at least that's what they tell me. I recently saw a delegation of Sweden who was visiting here, and at that very moment we voted, when the gentleman from the assembly guard lifted up that paper on their faces and saw a smile, a smile. They think it's funny because it speaks to the seriousness of an institution like Parliament. Unfortunately, our history is not long, although this Parliament has existed in some form and in that state, in these 20 years we have failed to create the appeal of this Parliament through some I do not know the procedures, rituals or something else that it is recognizable, unfortunately. Some others have it. English Parliament, American Congress. [[Found Zgrebec: Finish your colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41888	Thank you. You have two replicas, so you'll proceed. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41889	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I agree with your debate and I agree with everything you've pointed out. In fact, when this was brought in as a valid Rules of Procedure, we also pointed to all its shortcomings, we also pointed to the lack of only the existence of replicas and we said what would happen. And now that what we've been saying is that we're going to answer for the replicas, that we won't be silenced by anyone, so now they're going to go to the limit, so now we need to take away in reality and that kind of freedom of speech. I want to say this way that indeed in this assembly none of the MPs, but I do not consider anyone to be an enemy, nor do I consider him unprofessional, nor do I find him less worthy. I really respect every MP and I'm glad to see everyone outside this assembly. What we're saying here, and it's said that sometimes with a lot of tension and a lot of anxiety and I don't know the insults simply sometimes might seem that way, but why? Because we, in order to be said in the people, are drawn to the tongue. I don't know why it's more and why it doesn't fit the rulings. I don't know what Prime Minister Milanovic imagined that he was Obama, so now he's going to tell us about the state of the nation, and we're going to keep our mouths shut. I don't know what he's got in mind and why he needs to be so quick to protect himself from us, so none of us is gonna do anything to him. He's our prime minister and we can say that. We in HDZ can say the same way Mr Milanovic is our Croatian prime minister. I just hope it won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41890	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41891	My colleague twilight so here I think that when we're on the replica of statistics it's inexorable and for the past year she said what I already said today, out of the 7,000 announcements at least that's what the president said I didn't send it all away, 3300 were just replicas. As we were up to the 7th month with the corrections of an incorrect quote, several hundred were also the correction of an incorrect quote. So more than 50% of the reporting is actually in these smaller time periods than a minute. And the fact is, Parliamentarians have chosen it as something that's easier for them than an individual debate and 10 minutes. It's easier for me to say it five times in two minutes than once in 10. Today, we have a representative who already has several hundred announcements. By the end of the term, he'll have over a thousand. But that's not the most important thing as part of statistics or recognition. I think it's much more important the way we discuss it. I just think that here I have put forward a proposal where we can reduce at least a little time the duration of certain debates because if a government representative really comes out after every club and challenges a set of replicas again, so it takes a sudden of course that it is up to them to ask if they can also contribute to some better democratic let's say the procedure or dignity of this House that they don't keep jumping out and telling us things like that you don't know anything, we are always more ready or smarter than you are. I think this particular replica should be positioned in one better way as the goal says more effective, so it would probably be a lot easier for all of us through new changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41892	Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41893	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said that these papers go back in history with this information as it is already called. In principle it is true, however, and this example shows in my opinion that no analysis of how much savings will be made, how long is it time to adjust to whether or not it can be, how much resources are needed to make it happen? Does the Parliament have computers for all MPs? The printers? Are these laptops that are tied here even acceptable or can they be dealt with? To be honest with me, it's a profession, but I've never, or been forced to read a book on a computer or ever again. So I'm going to look for a list of these extensive documents. Is it on the other side how you're gonna make notes? Therefore, this one good idea is acceptable, but its implementation, costing, which is all it takes simply does not exist. And that's only in this detail not making sure that all of this can be applied to most of the other laws. And here, if I'm not mistaken, even here, it says that nothing costs or burdens the budget, which is very questionable and not true. So on this side, one approach to enter from one principle point of view that is acceptable but without knowing the entire paragraph and procedures, and what we're going to achieve in certain shares, I don't think it's rational and it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41894	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41895	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I didn't get to say it at the end, I don't think he's working it out in the Rules of Procedure. These are the material conditions in which parliamentary representatives work. They're not perfect, they're not the best. As I worked in the executive office, I know that many ministries look much better than this Croatian House, that civil servants have several times better working conditions than MPs in the Assembly than they have to have from the room and the desk and everything else in order to do their duty at all. How much are the savings? I believe given this amount of paper they're large. It's about tons of paper and thousands of gallons of ink a year. Probably there can be a space that those who didn't get, I think that the vast majority of MPs got the Parliament's computer to use, but the simple technology was only through these three monitors at least in one part accelerated some situations. They'd speed up my vote, they'd do it faster if they were to do it electronically if the government wanted it because they're telling me that this system works but it doesn't want to. We can talk faster if we want. We can do all this simply if we want to, if we're not given a government position. However, it is still the primary here and it seems that only the government is going through the system faster, and to us it seems to be. And because of this, in two readings this Rules of Procedure, that the representatives of the Constitution Committee heard this and that until the end, when the final proposal for a Rules of Procedure is made, we will have better and more orderly articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41896	Lastly, on behalf of the Proposer, President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41897	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Act on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, and I will thank all those who have made constructive remarks and proposals here, and we will do our best to put as many as possible into the draft final draft bill, and I will repeat here that I hope that the Committee on the Constitution will adopt such a final proposal and refer it to the Parliament in the procedure. I won't be long, there's a lot being said, but I feel a great need to show myself on two things or one thesis related to two proposals that have been made in this Rules of Procedure, and it concerns that democracy is being choked by it. Well, look at the government president's reports so far, there wasn't any. The Prime Minister could have been here throughout his term and appeared on the current morning, not even giving answers to questions if he wanted to, he could have said I'll answer you in writing, he could have said we won the elections last week and sat down and that was it. This Rules of Procedure obliges the Prime Minister to meet the Croatian Parliament and the entire Croatian public once a year on the work of the Government in the past year as well as on the state of the Republic of Croatia. I think the public and this House have a right to know. And after that, the report will be discussed with all political groups in the Croatian Parliament. I don't see how the introduction of a new institute, a new questioning of the government's work is stifled by democracy. You're also saying that we are suffocating democracy when we suggest that when ministers are elected they are individually being heard on committees or that the debate is being held on committees. My colleague Sobol explained it very nicely and accurately, but I have to do it again. Each parliamentary representative shall have the right to attend a committee meeting if he is interested and to participate in the debate, to ask questions, not only to the candidate for minister, but also to a representative of the government who will normally be president and an exceptional vice-president of the government. So at every board meeting, each of us has the right to come and ask questions. He's got more right than he's ever had before. They have the right to come to that session and the media, have the right to record a session, have the right to transfer such a session to the public. Where's the democracy suffocating, please? So I can't accept these two thesis on the asphyxiation of democracy, and I can't accept these two thesis that this institute of apriors is bad. We can discuss its implementation, we can discuss how to correct it, we can talk about such a hearing moving to a plenary session. But please don't characterize anything new that carries extra rights as apriors badly. I'd like to finish here and thank everyone for the comments once again, I've listened to them, my colleague from the Committee, no matter what we have, and the phonogram has recorded it. Through the debate we tried to see how and how some of them could be installed in the Rules of Procedure. And it is indeed our duty to make this Rules of Procedure the best possible for the Parliament to work. If we're gonna make it, we probably won't. But I hope that at least a little bit of this Rules of Procedure will improve the work of the Parliament and increase the democratisation and transparency of its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41898	Thank you, and now we have four more replicas. Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41899	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'd like to try to ask you in my replica of questions. You say it isn't, that democracy isn't stifled and that you don't see what the problem is with the Prime Minister's report on the state of the nation not to ask questions. So that means that one whole hour Mr. Prime Minister this hour is that Mr. Milanovic can say whatever he wants to do and we must not tell him or ask him, nor warn him of what is in reality in our election units. Then what are you going to do if we all want to come to that committee session? I guess, so what's the problem with not being there, I don't see the problem right now, I don't know. Why is it that every 151 of us, of course, if you count on you to order your MPs in the SDP and coalition partners not to come, then it's a different story, then they won't come. Because you ordered them not to argue, so it's a different story, they don't debate, of course. We understand all that. But don't tell your colleague Peja, I appreciate you as a young man really and you have skills and everything but you lack experience in some things. Don't do any doctrines, I'm not going to make you have anything to do with the communists right now, so don't make us do things like that, so I have to say make us look so stupid as if we don't have our own opinions and you assure us that it's all democratic. But I believe that now you will answer me what you will do when we all and wish we will all come to that committee and what is the problem for the MP to ask the prime minister a question and warn him that something is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41900	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, this is exactly the kind of debate that contributes to the devastation of Parliament's reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41901	And what did I say wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41902	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41903	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here are the questions for the Prime Minister's institute of the current morning, intended for the Institute of Representative Affairs. The Institute of Work Reports of the Government is intended to also be state-of-the-art, aimed at informing the Prime Minister of his work and of the state of affairs and that his representatives through clubs mean organized groups in the Croatian Parliament to respond and say no, you are wrong. The situation isn't so good, you need to fix it. Every club, every organized group in this House will be able to talk about this report. As far as your allegations are concerned, whether all 151 MPs will come to the board's meeting, let them come and that's democracy. If the debate and hearing on the board should take two days, it will take two days. Now you've answered yourself what if all 151 of us come. They will come and that is proof that this is not a violation of democracy. Democracy and obstruction. In the United States Senate, the most normal thing is a filibuster. That an agent who is not satisfied with the act is obstructing. Well, that's allowed in the Croatian Parliament. And that is the essence of democracy that opposition by all means struggles to law, that the act that should be passed by most should not be passed because they consider it contrary. But let the majority fight, too, that the act they think is good enough to fight to be adopted. This document, this proposal is not undemocratic. We can talk about whether it's more or less functional. But not once, not one MP will be denied the right he has today. Not one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41904	Miroslav Tudjman replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41905	I would actually agree with this thesis that this concept from the ruling majority's point of view is written very modern. Namely, in modern rule theories, there is that the thesis of dominating a full spectrum of personal information. That's what I mean in literature and in practice doable. It exists, can be seen, and in practice it is implemented. And you can just defend the thesis that this is not asphyxiation of democracy as you said, but this is imposing the domination of your own information so that others who can say something remain simply negligible and relevant and that there can be no expression. So, by perpetuating one of these information, it gets the impression that it's a dominant opinion and that it's only right and that it's only worth it. And that's the core of the problem. And when you here as chairman of that committee say I'm not in agreement, I won't agree, then it's already problematic from the point of view of some democratic relations because apriori has already been assumed that the Committee will make the same decision that you've just said here. Thus, in this sense, it is simply a play of will and other sides. The point here would be to bring such a Rules of Procedure that would be balance and opposition and ruling no matter who is in what situation. And to put ourselves in such a position that when the change of power comes, we say what you are saying now, and you are saying what the opposition is saying is simply a waste of time and a loss of chance for our political and economic and social development. That's where I think the key to the misunderstanding is and what the debate is actually about today all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41906	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41907	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Grbin, I don't know if you underestimate us in our thinking or in our logic, you explain to us all day that we can come to a constituency committee and ask a future minister everything we want and we can do it for two days and 150 of us, and when we want to do it at a plenary session, then we can't. 150 of us can't ask him again for two days. What's the difference, what's the speed, what's the speed, what's sitting next to him, the prime minister might not or won't, what's the speed? Because if we can all come and if we can all ask if TV is going to broadcast and if it's going to happen in this room here, then what's the difference? And you assure us that it is the height of your thinking, and that we cannot know it at all. ... It needs committees... so our committees are strong, they're so strong they sometimes draw conclusions after the debates have been held in the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, it's a question of improvisation. We unfortunately live in improvisation at the moment, and mistakes are happening to us, and that needs to be corrected. But I really don't see any new model here or anything new if it's all the way you interpret it. What's my difference on the council board, there's someone else I'm president of, and here I have a chair of someone else. I mean, what's the problem? I say again, we can go to this room, we can go anywhere, we'll ask him questions, we all have the right to ask him something, and when he gets here, I can't ask him any more questions. What's that? Well, these are ridiculous explanations, unprepared, which have nothing to do with any interpretations because we have already heard from the esteemed president of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution of different interpretations, and these are the only differences between us, which you have extensively interpreted, as you do. If it suits you to work on the parliamentary committee, you will insist and vote on it, but don't make us crazy that we don't know the difference between the debate on the parliamentary board and the plenary sessions and all the conditions are equal. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41908	Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41909	Well, basically, an esteemed colleague himself answered this first, so that the board can be discussed and there is no violation of democracy. What's the point of moving the debate to the board? So it is precisely that in front of the committee which has not been possible so far, because the candidate for the minister could not answer questions, that the committee which is the parent working body for a particular part-time candidate for the minister is being discussed about him as a person of his competence for acting as minister and his plan when the minister, if the minister becomes. So far, the debate has been conducted in a way that has been debated over everything, and only not about the minister, and that is the point, and we want to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41910	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41911	Comrade Grbin, you said this Rules of Procedure would be adopted. Of course it will be adopted, but it would be good because it applies to all MPs and to the work of the Parliament, the procedure of working us here to bring it unanimously. That'd be good. And therefore, it would not harm a little more understanding of concrete proposals on the other hand. I'm not talking about any darkness of democracy because democracy is enough because if it weren't for democracy, we wouldn't be discussing today and the other day about the trade. But it's not good that we have different criteria for the same person. Why does one of these same ministers have one procedure, and after that, if he is relieved of his duties and another minister is coming through the second procedure. If the committees are strengthened then let the procedure be the same for all or on boards or here, let's level the criteria. And if the unequal criteria are let's explain why they're unequal and what need is, if there's a legitimate need I'll understand that. I just don't see the reasons, they're not written, they're not explained. And I'd like you to have all the concrete suggestions to think carefully and to install them in those who don't mind your views on the Rules of Procedure. For example, here I would from concrete cases from practice, very often it happens that on the parent committees come on behalf of the proposing person who is not listed in the draft law that he will be the proposing. It's not just happening right now, it's happened before. I've always had trouble returning and I've been delaying, I didn't want to, Mrs. Vice President's witness that one thing I didn't want to put on the agenda because the one who was proposed by the promoter didn't come to the fourth grade. Why should it not be an obligation in the Rules of Procedure not to hold a meeting on the committee, a debate on that point if someone who is not listed in the law came on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41912	Thank you very much. Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41913	Thank you. My colleague, I absolutely agree with you, and I support you, and I would really like to have a consensus on this, but sometimes it's not possible. We will certainly and that is the goal, we will consider all the remarks and surely adopt a good part of them. Here is an example of one observation that will certainly be adopted by those colleagues, that all members of the European Parliament from Croatia are invited to the Committee on European Affairs. For example, we now think of it because we have studied it, and we feel that it is really necessary to adopt it. Will all the remarks that have been made be adopted? He won't. Some were also contradictory with each other, but we will try to reach as much consensus as possible and here I thank you both for your criticisms and for your comments on this Rules of Procedure. However, the second thing you said is that different procedures are being prescribed in the election of the minister and the government as a whole. But she's different today. The constitution stipulates that, when the government was elected, it was not for individual members of the government to be discussed, but for the government programme and for the government, and now that we had elected an individual minister, we could not discuss it as a person. So the procedure was different now, because we're going to say if we want to even the procedure, then we can't just discuss the individual minister, but the programme and the work of the government and the government as a whole. And what if we prescribed it, then what would we say, so it would be the twilight of democracy. There. I apologize to my colleague. And this last thing you said here, I absolutely have to support you. It is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure who may come from the Government. It's a minister, his deputy or assistant. They must be listed in the act. If someone comes in third, each chairman of the board would have the right and duty to either deny it or postpone that point if he felt that without a proposal, he had no conditions to maintain himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41914	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the draft Rules of Procedure later. Now let's make a deal for tomorrow. At 9.30 we will begin with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, and we will continue the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of the Search for Workers in the event of bankruptcy of the Employer. We will not do this week's report on the implementation of the budget, but will continue with points 20, 21 or further on the agenda. Thank you very much. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-12-0.u41915	Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, 2. Any objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you, please score. I find that the majority of the 78 votes in favour of, 23 votes against, 1 abstention has been reached with the proposed conclusion. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue with the 8th plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the agenda that has been established. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 375; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Labour and Pension System, respected Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
