ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45258	We begin with: - Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012; Report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have with us a representative of the motion I welcome, Deputy Minister Jaksa Pugliz. Do you want an opening, Deputy Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45259	A new 6-month report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union covering the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012 is in front of you. Namely, the basis of the conclusion of the 2005 Croatian Assembly. The Government is obliged to submit regular 6-monthly reports on the application of the European Union assistance programme on a semi-annual basis. We'll only have one more half-year's report on how to use the help program. We will no longer call this a report on the use of the aid programme, but a report on the use of the European Union funds. Allow a few short information, summarise a review of what is in the report much more comprehensive and detailed. Total state of implementation of the contract and payment with the IPA programme. All components of the IPA programme are located at a very high level of implementation of the contracts and payments during the reporting period. Of course, there are certain differences that need to be taken into account, given that the methodology of settlement and payment differs between individual components. We're always stressing the first component of a two-year contract. The projects are being implemented for two years, and one year after implementation, payments are still being made. Same for the other component. To the IPA component 3, 4, and 5 shall be applied based on a known rule... Plus 3 is exactly the same rule that will apply after membership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the key data is concerned. The total IPA agreed on 31 December 2012 amounts to 410m euros. So, the Republic of Croatia is up to 31. The 12th contracted 59% of the total allocated amount of 693m euros. So, 59%. In the reporting period itself, in 6 months, the last 6 months of 2012 paid 77m euros and 32.67% of the total paid amount of 238m euros to end users and contractors, respectively. So, the most important information is that so far Croatia has contracted 410m euros, or up to 31. 12. In 2012, end-users were paid the basis of realized works, services and supplies of 238 million euros. And I repeat during the period covered by the report, 77m euros were paid out. What is very important, therefore, to have a full picture of progress, progress in using IPA means in mind, and there it can really be seen that there is a significant acceleration trend. In fact, just to remind you at the end of 2011, IPA's budget was 37.8%. At the end of 2012, 50.2% later, and the last data we have is from 28. Six this year, twenty-eight. The 6th contract rate was 78.65%, so almost 80%. So in a year and a half it's been arranged double and more than twice as much as in the last three years. The paid-up rate is slightly less than 60% compared to the contracted funds. When we talk about paid funds, one more piece of information for the entire period of use of IPA, so up to 31. 12 of 1. 1. 2009 to 31. 12. In 2011, 126 million euros were paid and up to 28. The 6th was paid 288m euros. So, between 31st. 12. 2011 and 28. Six. In 2012, the increase was around 162m euros. The component view is more detailed. IPA component 1 in the reporting period completed the negotiation and implementation of the 2007 programming year the percentage of the contract in this component was 92.98% and for the 2008 programming year the contract was completed with 94.84% of the contracted funds. The final day of the reporting period for this programming year was 76%. While for the 2010 programming year it was 34.58%. With a view to comparing the progress of the agreement in the reporting period in question compared to the previous reporting period for the first 6 months of 2012 and taking into account components and locations of component 1 of the IPA programme, it is evident that progress has been made for the 2008 programming year of 1.6%, for 2009 of 21.12% and for 2010 by 5.13%. It's a percentage increase in the rate of agreement. IPA component 2 cross-border cooperation. In the framework of cross-border cooperation with non-EU countries for the 2007-2010 programming years, the contract rates range from 10% in the 2010 Allocation for BiH and Montenegro, up to 100% for completed programmes, which is the 2008 programme with BiH. So these are the greatest successes, we can say that cross-border cooperation with the first component of IPA is actually the best, most successful IPA component because all the rates of contracts are over 95%, so they are between 95 and in some cases even 100%. For the first time, this report covers cross-border programmes projects with the Member States of the European Union, and here the ratio of agreed amounts moves to equally high 84% of the agreed funds. Now we come to those of us most interesting components, components 3, 4 and 5. IPA component 3 which includes, as we know, three sub-components of transport, environmental protection and regional competitiveness. The total contracted funds for component 3A Transport, ending on 31 December 2012, amounted to 64.5m euros, in other words 66.78% of the allocated funds were agreed by 31.12 last year. About half of it was paid, 31.5m euros. It is worth noting that three contracts for the preparation of project and other technical documentation for future infrastructure projects have been signed for the implementation of the railway project on Okucani-Novska, for the construction of a new two-way railway line on the Goljak-Skradnik route, for the construction and construction of a new two-way railway line and for the construction of a second track on the part of Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac, for the construction of the project and other project documentation needed to improve the existing and construction of the second rail track on the Križevci-Koprivnica-state border. As regards the implementation of a major infrastructure project, the system of signal-safety devices at Zagreb's main station is in the final phase, before the end. IPA component 3B Environment. Total agreed funds in the Okoš component amount to 56.99m euros on 31.12.2012, meaning 58.9% of the allocated funds have been agreed so far and 20.9 and 36.7%, respectively. In the area of priority 1 of the environmental protection operational programme, the implementation of major strategic infrastructure projects has been continued. These are the famous projects of the construction of the Mariščina and Kastijun county waste management centres. Component 3C Regional competitiveness. Finally, 46.7m euros were agreed with 31.12, making up 73% of the allocations. 27.8m euros were paid, or 60% of the contracted funds. By 31.12.2012, 43 million euros and 61% of the funds allocated for the period '07-'11 were contracted for component 4 Human Resources Development. In total, 34m euros were paid, i.e. 78.7% of the contracted funds. And the last component is the component of 5 rural development. By the end of the reporting period, 56.46m euros were agreed out of 129 allocated. Let me remind you, on 31.12.2011, we had 15m euros agreed, 15m euros in IPARD, a year after 56.5. Automatic withdrawal of funds, i.e. loss of funds due to non-execution in accordance with the deadlines. As it marked in 2011 a significant denunciation of neutral assets continued in 2012 according to the so-called Regulation N+3. The amount for a specific financial year must be spent and certified no later than 3 years from that financial year. That's the known rule N+3. For the amount of non-determined funds, the European Commission shall permanently reduce the allocations. The largest amount of neutral resources from the 2009 financial year was in component 5 Rural Development. The amount of funds returned to the European Union's budget amounted to 13.1m euros, representing 50% of allocation for 2009. If we remember a year earlier, a total alocation was returned to the European Union for a 25m-euro programming year, so about half of the less funds were recovered in 2012. As for component 3C, 2.6m euros were neutralised, and in component 4 the development of human potentials of 2m euros. However, the overall trend in the return of funds to the budget of the European Union is present. In fact, when looking at the 2008 programming year and rule N+3 at the beginning of 2012, we had to return 39m euros of untapped funds, while everything expensive for the 2009 programming year had to be returned to the EU budget just over 17m euros last year. The main reasons for the automatic recall. In the IPA 3C component, the causes of automatic recalling funds relate primarily to savings achieved on the Biocentre project, to contracts for works and work surveillance which are concluded in significantly smaller amounts than planned, as well as to the cancellation of calls for submission of project proposals in the second round of competitions for gifts, the Fund for Investment in Science and Innovation due to suspicion of maladministration. Also, a special problem is a significant delay in so-called "supervisory delay". secondary purchases, i.e. purchases by end-users and savings in percentages of reallocation after completion of works. The component of the four IPA automatically recalls the funds was primarily caused by delays in the verifications of the reports submitted by end-users to the relevant authorities due to the administrative sub-capacitation of the implementing bodies leading to delays in the payments of funds and later in the certificates of funds. In the five IPA component, the problems lie in the specific payment dynamics, which include the absence of an advance payment instrument and during payments, the payments of the users are already made at the end of the project or after approval of the final reports. As regards irregularities in opening and closing cases of irregularities, a total of 11 cases of irregularities were opened. Five new cases of irregularities were reported during the reporting period. Due to irregularities, the return of funds in the EU budget by the end of 2012 amounted to 0.86m euros, which is an objectively very small amount and, in fact, the data we can be very, very satisfied with. Of these 0.86, 0.06 refers to components one to four, and in fact 90% of these returned funds are related to the five IPARD component. Irregularities concern infringement of public procurement rules, non-compliance with contractual obligations, conflicts of interest, unacceptable costs, etc. Now a few words on preparations for the use of the EU fund after 1 July 2013. This chapter is a new part of our report and it will be, therefore, in every future report that we will submit to the Croatian Parliament. The comparison with the IPA implementation activities was carried out intensively to prepare the governance and control system for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia during the financial period 2007-2013. The following has been made: an institutional framework for the use of structural instruments after entry into membership has been established and responsible implementing bodies for operational programmes have been defined. Accordingly, it was started with the production of the necessary documents for so-called ‘. An assessment of the compliance of the system with EU rules is under way, in other words, the process of accreditation of the bodies for the use of EU funds. Also, the process of drawing up programming documents, i.e. operational programmes for the period 2007-2013, has been completed and an intensive process has also been launched since 2012 to develop operational programmes for use for the period 2014-2020. A strong emphasis in the reporting period was put on activities to further strengthen the administrative capacity of the body in the system. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to hire additional employees through redistribution or additional employment. Since the start of implementation of the abovementioned decision in June of last year until the end of the reporting period, by the end of December 2012, a total of 113 persons were either completed or were under way until the end of March of this year, which amounted to 172. To remind the government's decision, a new employment of 232 persons is also set. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted a regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the names of posts and coefficients of the complexity of state service transactions based on which specific coefficients of complexity apply also to state service bodies which have not been accredited in the IPA system but will be accredited for the use of structural funds and cohesion funds in the period of the seventh thirteenth. Educational activities. Educational activities have been intensified during the reporting period. Thus, in the organisation of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the first cycle of ten education modules for state and public servants, called management and control of the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia, began. In 2012 and 13, a total of 878 state and public officials were planned to spend education. Of these 263 completed education during the reporting period. As regards education at local regional level in 2012 education was attended by 1153 students and 2200 participants of different modules were planned for 2013. In total, more than 10 modules, 12 exactly covering different aspects of using structural instruments. And I repeat, the participants are representatives of local and regional levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45260	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45261	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said one great inaccuracies. I'll quote, "In a year and a half twice as much as in previous years." In order to ultimately explain how to deny what program is being implemented. You know very well what is agreed on practically and defined in 2012 during this period of which you say for a year and a half that these are projects that began to prepare and negotiate two, three years ago. Therefore, the process of contracting and finishing a job takes several years and you simply cannot share the processes as it suits you because you are sending the wrong message. And finally, if you look at those processes that were completed there, the deal was over 90%. And it's something clean because of the Croatian public and we have to tell the truth. So where the projects are finished, I'm talking about IPA there's an agreement over 90%. And that there was no difference in price, because the total amount is seen, and not what was achieved by the public competition, the percentage was even greater. And why did I answer the line? For the simple reason that you sent a completely wrong message with your statement at the time when it is important for Croatia to use every cent from the EU funds. So, the question arises whether we are where we wanted to do the job properly, and the agreement of over 90% simply says that we were as successful as what you said in a year and a half you ended up with someone who had already started and this process that can't be shared on this or that administration. And I think that as a representative of the Government you were simply obliged to say that because of the Croatian public and Croatian truth and because of everything that awaits us in the coming period. Because these pre-accession funds were only training for the use of European funds and it is not good that we share a period of some year because it is simply impossible to do so. And in the end, I'm glad that you, unconsciously in your own explanation, eventually denied yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45262	Thank you. Next replica, Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45263	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I would not, in fact, enter your grades of any previous period because I believe that you will actually best judge yourself and show how successful you are in the period ahead of us and in which we are already living today. Given that we are a member of the EU today, I would like you to expand your exposure a little more in detail and what you have told us about the activities that are being done today. So I'm wondering if a request for accreditation for the management of structural instruments has been submitted because we are now a member and this request could have been submitted if you worked successfully, efficiently and effectively. I would like to know where the 2013 programming documents are, where the operational programmes are the basis for the tendering procedures and the use of the funds that were allocated to us for 2013, remind me of those 470 million euros. You can't find them on your ministry's website. I wonder what stage they're in and when they can be made publicly available. So let's see and know what these are really priorities that will be financed from the funds that we've been allocated to structural funds for 2013. And finally, when will the first competitions begin? These are all issues that are relevant to the Member State, and we are Member States today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45264	Thank you, too. We have an answer. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45265	As for concrete data and these comparisons of success, so we just have some dates that we take as a benchmark, nothing else. We do not say that the perfect bargaining and the perfect increase in the bargaining after 1.12.2011 is exclusively the result of the new administration. Of course there's a lot going on, but the numbers show what they're saying. We simply have a situation that we had 37% of the contract rate in 2011, and that in 28.06.2013 we have 78%. We don't say anything else. We say we're happy with that part. Of course, this in no way reduces the challenge of the problem, nor are we trying to close our eyes to the fact that IPA really is an exercise. These data still do not reveal much about the capacity and absorption opportunities of the state administration when a billion and a half euros arrive every year in Croatia. But given the situation in IPA and everything we have available from IPA, we are simply satisfied with trends so far. To answer another question regarding preparation for the use of structural instruments, or where we are right now. So, the accreditation process is ongoing. The state administration has prepared a huge accreditation package which is currently being checked, as you know, the accreditation process is neither simple nor fast. You know that there are some domestic bodies that are also involved before European bodies are involved. Currently, accreditation is on check with the home authorities of the System Audit Agency, the home agency. Of course, co-operation and communication with the European Commission also takes place all the time. The accreditation package will be sent as planned by the end of 1 September to the European Commission and the approval will come for the use of structural instruments before the end of this year. That's our plan, and I'm sure it will be. As far as operational programs are concerned, we don't have any big secrets for operational programs. You well know that operational programs for 6 months are the continuation of operational programmes from the IPA and all those priorities that are listed in the operational programmes so-called IPA operational programmes are in operational programmes that we now call 2007-2013. In particular, where they are, they are in translation. Soon, it's all over, there's some details that we still need to go through and that's blocking us, procedurally, to make them public. Like. We need to call the Supervisory Board because there is a monitoring committee for every operational program as you know. The Supervisory Board shall formally adopt an operational programme. We're not calling the Supervisory Boards until after 1.07. You probably heard that yesterday was the constitutive session of the Supervisory Board for the Operational Programme Regional Competitiveness. So, very soon you will all have the opportunity to see this detailed information on a new web portal that will be called www.strucularfonds where you will also have translated documents into Croatian and all other important information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45266	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45267	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this is, of course, a very important report, and there's more talk about it, and these funds actually have more meaning in our public than they really do. This is only one small segment of the EU's action, i.e. our opportunities, the full EU budget actually accounts for only 1% of the Member States' GDP, and EU policies affect 50% or more of the lives of member states. And of course, funds are only one part of the EU budget, but it is certainly a very important thing. This year, in the second half, it is about 650m euros in funding available to the Republic of Croatia, and next year it is over a billion going up to a billion and a half euros a year, which is certainly big money. And that is why it is important to seriously consider these reports to improve the use of EU funds and this stage, and of course also in the phase of membership, or the use of EU structural instruments. As far as the Croatian Parliament's reporting is concerned, it would certainly be good to keep the possibility or insight of the Croatian Assembly into the use of these funds and after the Republic of Croatia becomes an EU member because it is important, it is important to monitor what is happening with these funds, regardless of how we will probably find mechanisms to monitor the use of structural funds, but these funds will be used for the next 5 or 6 years, so that it would be good to find mechanisms to monitor parliamentary surveillance and parliamentary insight and to use these funds or mechanisms to which these funds are used. As far as methodologies are concerned, and there is an open question that the administration is responsible for which part of the success of the use of funds, it would certainly be good for those reports to be such that it can be measured, of course. It wouldn't be bad just of course it won't be simple. It is important to know who was more successful in this business and because voters know it. Well, it would be good if those reports had such a form to be clear, legible and representative, to be easy to pass on to citizens, and then finally to see and how much of the share in the success of some administration of a government minister, etc. In fact, in this report, the only year that can be fully valorised is in 2007. Because in 2007 it was all over, final payments to end users were completed and, of course, all other procedures were completed, so no more danger of recalls, the projects were completed, the funds were used. And in that year, realisation is relatively high, it is 80% of this highest figure. Namely, these are 4 levels and should always be calculated in my opinion with this first maximum use option, and these are the allocations. After that, funds that are always less than or more often allocated are agreed, and these are ultimately funds paid to end-users. And when you really want to see exactly what our success in using the funds is then you need to look at the ratio of the funds paid to the end-user and the allocations. In 2007, it is about 80%, which is actually a very high amount and it would be good to keep that level of usability, or to increase it if possible. Automatic recall is, of course, the most dangerous fact, the most dangerous event in the process, and these funds are neither large nor small. If you're looking at relatively, it's not a big asset, it's 10% of the way it is, but if you're looking at the share of these funds, so the absolute amount of these funds, then it's about high amounts of money and you don't have to play with it. Thus, the total recall for 2008 was 25m euros, as Mr. Deputy Minister said. It's not a small amount of money, it's 10% of the total funds, or I don't know in that order of size, but 25 million dollars is certainly not a small amount of money. In doing so, the recall for IPA 3A is 51% which is certainly worrying and should try to see what is behind it and whose responsibility for such a high impeachment of funds, whether it is the responsibility of individual persons or whether it is the responsibility of insufficiently designed instruments for the use of these funds. IPA 5 for 2008 is 99% and should offer a housing explanation here in this House. It cannot be said that this is insufficient capacity building, so of course it can be said that there is insufficient capacity building or bodies involved in the process of use and for other programmes. IPA 5 in 2009 the withdrawal of funds is 51% again, which is again a large amount, and we expect the Deputy Minister to somehow make a slightly clearer explanation of why this happened, not just because of the sub-capacitation of our bodies to implement these programmes. What was a little controversy here, I must say, is that the deputy minister didn't say anything incorrect. He just cited the facts. And indeed, according to this statement, the impeachment goes down from 2008 to 25 million euros, and for 2009. 13 million euros, that's a fact. Similarly, in a given period, all data, i.e. the contracted assets and the assets and assets paid to end-users are increasing, therefore, absolutely factually correct. He did not interpret and credit this administration or that administration. Of course, it is the work of all those who have participated in this as long as the programme takes place and those before who have laid the foundations of that system of use of funds, but it is not true that the deputy minister has told the truth. He told the truth, and the question of course how we're going to interpret that truth. Otherwise, when it comes to reasons for automatic recall, they are also very interesting. The suspicions of irregularity, of course, cannot be avoided nor can we avoid the entry of disorder, illegal behaviour and this area, but of course there should be particularly careful losses that we have, so it is the means that we have received and then we have lost them because of the suspicion of irregularity. The frequent delays in secondary procurement, therefore, are the same one failure that can, of course, be sanctioned but should certainly be prevented. And what is, in fact, the least understandable in all of this is the delay in checking end-user reports by the competent authorities. So due to the delay in checking the report, there is a withdrawal of funds, so because of the weakness of our administration, and not because of some other criminal actions we cannot directly influence, there is a withdrawal of funds, and that is one very, very important item. And it would be interesting to get a little bit into a deeper analysis which part of the recall was actually done by a delay in checking the report by the competent authorities. Because that is the direct responsibility of this administration and, of course, every administration, and that is why it is important to see how it works and why it happens. When it comes to this new period of course, this period is more important than what was, really, I don't know if it's even politically important. But it is certainly important to what extent we have prepared ourselves and using pre-accession funds to withdraw funds or to use funds from the European Union's Structural Funds where this relationship is much, much greater. So it's about three to four times the amount that's intended. And it is therefore important that this pre-accession process be a good school for the use of these funds under the conditions of membership in the European Union. One declaration, i.e. a European Parliament resolution dealing precisely with the extent to which the Republic of Croatia has raised its capacity to use the structural instruments of the European Union using pre-accession funds. That is the only way to deal with this European Parliament resolution. And it would be good to look at and see by the administration what it says in that resolution. For me, the most important part of this Resolution adopted last year is the weak capacity of units of local and regional self-government and the weak involvement of these units in the use of European Union funds. So that's something we absolutely have to change. So that's one potential we have. This, of course, enables our local and regional self-governments to exercise and, of course, strengthen their administrative capacities and their overall ability to manage. And it would be good for them to create conditions for them to participate more in this process than they have ever been before. When it comes to employed persons, it should be noted that out of the 138 employees of the 232 Government Plan, these 100 non-employees, their gross salaries amount to around 15 million euros a year, and the recall that took place in that year 2012 or 2012 or 2009 is close to around 13 million euros. So, of course not only because of this, but it can be said that because we did not hire people who work on these programs, there was, of course, a recall that is equal to their annual salary. And, of course, the loss of funds is not only on recall, the loss of funds is on each item which is less than the allocation of funds. What you've agreed, which is assigned, and you haven't agreed to, is a loss. What you have agreed and no loss has also been found, what has been found and not paid has not been used is also loss. Therefore, there is still a great space for progress, and therefore there is no need to save on the employment of these young people. Especially as their expertise is transferred, it will also be used in other matters that will work in the state administration. It will not necessarily work all the time on European issues or on the use of funds. Therefore, this is to strengthen the total administrative capacity and capacity of the state administration, and this needs to be saved and this process should continue and this process of receiving young and professional people to these jobs which can then, of course, also be employed in the bodies of the European Union but also in other administrative bodies of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I am pleased that, as the report says, the development needs of the Republic of Croatia for the use of the funds in the period 2014/20 have been established. that operational programmes have begun to be developed. But I agree that if it is possible that they should, as counterpart Dalic said, have some more information. So this information that we have on this most important part of this report is pretty lame. At least this report is not about that, but it would be a good opportunity for this to be an opportunity for the most important business that is ahead of us and the greatest opportunity for us to find out a little bit more about it in the Croatian Parliament. And one of the remarks mentioned here with IPA 5, i.e. IPARD, little use of funds, and this is what our committee says about small and medium-sized family economies, crafts and small businesses. Well, then, because of their sub-optimation, there were these weak deals and then there were major recalls. It is again one great potential such as units of local self-government in the horizontal dimension as important potential to be used to withdraw funds. Thus, small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts and family economies in the vertical dimension are one capacity to be exploited and this sub-capacitation of this withdrawal sector should certainly be removed and special attention should be paid to this. So it is a technical report, which is well drawn up and which, of course, if we treat it well here in the Parliament, but of course also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, allow better withdrawal of funds under the conditions of membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45268	Thank you. We have three replicas. Dujomir Marasovic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45269	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Radosh, you've said a lot here in your speech, for example. that these funds have more meaning than we think, that issues related to spending these funds should be seriously considered, but the emphasis of your speech on who is responsible for these withdrawn funds in Europe, for unused funds, means for the damage that Croatia has suffered because it has received money, and has not spent it, means... you are looking for guilt, guilt, guilt for those responsible persons. So you said this was a good school for us to act like and all together. Since you of the Liberals as far as I know, your political background has been trafficked into an anti-European because you are one of the anti-European bloc speakers in the Croatian Parliament, who will be responsible I ask you if Croatia loses certain funds as it says today, just laugh, in Free Dalmatia that Barroso can slap Croatia as well as Romania, that it can be punished by 100, 200, 300, 500 million euros and if Croatia has to give 500 million euros a year, and if it has to be given another 500 million euros, then who will pay a billion euros then, Mr Radosh, with your anti-European behaviour that you publicly read and present. Is that what you thought about? Is that your school? Is this the school you're talking about, is this a serious relationship to these means you're talking about? Is that it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45270	Thank you. We'll hear the answer, colleague Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45271	My colleague Marasovic, in fact, was not an emphasis on my exposure to who was to blame but to determine which mechanisms led to the lack of funds. And of course, if there is another higher level of responsibility or a more concrete level of responsibility such as criminal responsibility, however, the competent authorities should certainly do their job in this segment. As for my anti-europeanism, I don't really know where you got it, it's a very unusual thesis, but if I'm an anti-European who doesn't care about Croatia, you're a european, so it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45272	Thank you. Next replica, Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45273	Thank you very much. So here I actually think that this previous little debate shows where we are coming from and what actually happens if one report that is in its nature financially, about which at least in my court should not be held by ideological discussions because the use of European funds is in the interest of Croatia and all those who have led Croatia and who will lead it in the coming period. Of course, though, if a report on certain matters deliberately shuts up and is thought not to know, such problems arise. A fellow Radoš, however, you know, the assets of component 3A have been returned because savings were made in the contract of construction works in years of crisis and these savings were not allowed to be reprogrammed, so we agreed that future savings could be used for some additional projects. And you know that IPARD is a programme that has been implemented from day one by different rules than all the other components, that in 2007, the Commission spent the whole year on adopting its own regulation and that these funds were returned because they simply could not be used because it was the only component that carried out its tasks without prior approval of the delegation in the past period. So we know why this happened, we know that there are administrative weaknesses, especially in the IPARD section, and none of us are satisfied with that, and that's why I didn't particularly address this when you said the recall in 2012 was caused by a delay in checking the reports. It is clear to me, too, that this is a weakness in the IPARD, and I think that what matters is that we simply do not blur each other's eyes with the reasons and causes that we know and who have been presented to this Parliament in previous years, rather than that all forces are directed to make this system as powerful and stronger as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45274	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45275	Well, it's a little unusual for me, colleague Dalic, that you're actually almost on the trail of your colleague Marasovic, so he declared me an anti-european, and you respect my ideological approach as hard as you can from what I said. There were very few ideologies, or almost no ideologies at all. I warned that the final use of the funds cannot be interpreted as the success of one administration and another administration, I made it very clear, but I pointed out that by stating what growth is in the observed reporting period of all these levels of funds, it is simply a fact. ... The reasons why this happened, whether you and I know them or not, is not a bad question, and it is not a bad thing that you have said here what these reasons are and the reasons should be repeated because everyone here and, of course, the Croatian public understands why this happened. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, nothing about this, if this is being questioned, is going wrong but is actually good for the work of Parliament and of course for the Croatian public, the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45276	Thank you. Next replica Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, Dalic, looked back on some parts of the speech by her colleague Radosa. Comrade Radoš, when you mentioned the declaration, the report on the use of funds before the European Parliament, so you said that the sub-capacitation of units of local and regional self-government was observed. That is true, but it is more important to note the sub-capacitation of the state administration. And this was later and imposed on us as one of the criteria, that is, in the same period as one of the criteria that your government was supposed to fix, so that it needed to fix the situation in that part so that we could actually meet all the challenges that bear resources from the approach, i.e. pre-accession programmes and now structural funds and cohesion funds. So, it is said and pointed out that the state apparatus has been sub-catered and for this reason last year we had competitions for the state administration where we warned that it really shouldn't be a colourful ideological contest, but that only those young and professional people who know what these programs are, what requirements are before them and who will be able to properly respond to the requirements of this job should be chosen. So there is really no reason for any ideological bickering, but your performance was really obvious that we recognized it in the Croatian Democratic Community, it was really ideologically colored in a way that tried to present how this administration contributed more. It's not. These projects we're talking about have been prepared long ago, some years ago they were prepared and arranged. And of course now there's a payment of funds for those projects. But what prevailed over this administration or specifically over your coalition is what is threatening after the adoption of certain laws in the Croatian Parliament. That's probably what my colleague Marasovic thought when he spoke to you, which is the fact that tomorrow someone can prevent us from withdrawing funds from EU structural and cohesion funds because we passed some law That cuts with the EU's gains. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] So that's what this is about, and there's a real danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45278	We have a colleague Radosh's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45279	My colleague Matušić, therefore you agree with me that in the European Parliament resolution he writes about the poor share of our units of local and regional self-government on the use of funds. I specifically emphasized it because it was not mentioned in this report. This is not mentioned in the report of the committee responsible, and this is an important dimension. Our weaknesses at the level of the state administration are the subject of this report, and that's what we were talking about. But the potential that lies in the units of local and regional self-government should certainly be exploited, which is why I stressed that dimension of that European Parliament resolution. I can't see again what that ideologicality of my exposure was, what I was selling it to ideology. I'm just saying that what my colleague Schucker said was that this administration was not responsible for the increase in funds. I merely stated that the deputy minister provided concrete exact information showing the growth of all parameters. I didn't say it was due to this administration. So I don't see what the ideology I used to place here was in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45280	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Associate. Well, I wouldn't talk about who's more, who's less responsible. And at the beginning of the debate, I'd just like to highlight what we all know. So this is the first report on pre-accession EU assistance programmes in which we talk about Croatia, so as a Member State and the same Union with all the rights and obligations that arise. It's clear that this is about the most IPA program and that we're going to have a full result, all that comes to see only at the end of that program, but this half-year report is very important to monitor some of the important elements that we're going to get, so a little better insight into everything that's going on in the program. What's this about? It is, firstly, a financial monitoring of the work of the public administration body and the users of the programme, i.e. their joint effectiveness in the implementation of the programme, so and all that the programmes bring. The second element is the specific importance of the programme that we can see through its implementation, i.e. through a description of the projects themselves. So everything they bring to the community. And the third level is the preparation of the Republic of Croatia, so where we are at this moment, as we have come and for which IPA has prepared us in what is waiting for us, which is why we are therefore entering into taking programs from structural funds. For all of this, therefore, IPA could prepare us except for this last one, and the experience we have today is on all of us, especially in the government, which is to make the best use of it. And hopefully in the future we'll still have a little bit better and a little more progress than today's 59.1%. Only the report is transparent, of course. So it has shown that there is still some kind of unity, a common effort for all. So from those who have negotiated, from those who have said that they have set the very foundations of the program to the end users, so to the county, to the municipalities, to all those involved in this project. But what bothers, what is in the eyes, is what we are all talking about at the end and our colleague, Radoš, as a predecessor, is the amounts of the recall funds, i.e. the permanent reduction of funds by the European Commission. For the simple reason we didn't use them within the specified time limit. But what is it? What is it about, for example, Component 5, where there is a problem with no subscription, a problem that we will probably get, or which we will inherit in the Rural Development Fund where the impeachment is as large as it is. I wonder if the government has in this sense some form of favourable lending, giving some guarantees, some kind of mechanism that will reduce risks or something like that. In Component 3.C, when we talk about not conducting secondary procurement in the way it should be, so the funds eventually call off, I wonder why we don't teach users that. If that doesn't work out, then maybe a form of sanctions should be introduced and eventually abolished by contracts and funds simply assigned to someone who won't cause problems in secondary procurement. Or move that implementation simply to a more adequate place in the vault. And in Component 4, when we talk about the insufficient capacity of a body that is said not to be able to read the user's reports, so... the funds, I think, are too high. In these vast impasses of public administration and everything we've heard about before, I wonder how we couldn't find people willing to go through education and just start doing that job. Or here's the government now for a new job, so maybe that's how the problem will be solved. Although it is not clear to me that there are existing people working in the public administration who have not been able to find themselves or are not good enough to qualify for the job through education. Although, if we take over the formulation in this report, the European Commission itself therefore says to engage an additional number of employees through internal advertising. I think that formulation is clear to everyone. We also talked about education in previous reports, so it was about the system of education of state and public servants organised 4, 5 years ago with 13 programming units co-financed by the Government of the Republic of Denmark where officials were educated in the financial management of European funds. And now we see that something similar is going to work for structural ones, so 10 wholes. I think it's very important and it doesn't need to be stressed how much multiple benefits it's going to be for everyone. What I'm going to mention, and that's what I was talking about the last time, is the Regional Development Agency. I still think that, therefore, it is not clear to me why the Regional Development Agency is still being explained to me, although the Deputy Minister has explained that this is because the Central Agency has been established before, so why is it not working or implementing a regional competitiveness programme, so Component 3.C programme. If we take into account the fact that even 20.5% of allocation calls for 2009 are not clear to me why it is then, and that this is successful and that it is all as God commands, then we would not have talked about it, we would not have needed roschades, but we see that the only programme for the agency, which is called the Regional Development Agency itself and, behold, cannot implement the Regional Competitiveness Programme. No matter what... the funds so maybe a little bit more if you could explain to me whether what the central agency was before was founded the only reason or maybe something else? I think we need to talk about this and that it has to be made public in some way and say what it's really about. I think that our common goal is to take away so as many projects as possible, eventually to take as much money as possible to develop the Republic of Croatia. That's about what I was going to say. The report is correct, the HDZ club will support it. And I hope in the next report that we will see progress in terms of getting help from EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45282	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivcevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45283	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. This report was drawn up in cooperation with the National Finance Ministry's Jobs Sector, and based on data collected from all institutions involved in the implementation of pre-accession EU assistance programmes in the Republic of Croatia. The report refers to the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012, and includes data on the implementation of all components of the IPA programme, since we are first-generation programmes... 2004, PHARE 2006, ISPA ended on 31 December 2011. In that period, the European Commission, on behalf of the National Fund, has determined a amount of 60.6m euros, which accounts for 20.82% of the total amount allocated to 291,02m euros since the start of the implementation of the IPA programme, and for the first time we record a growth of more than 300% compared to the estimated amount in the previous reporting period. Moreover, compared to the previous reporting period during which end-users and contractors were paid a amount of 33.55m euros in the reporting period in question to end-users and contractors, more than twice the amount of funds was paid. Therefore, it is pleased to note that significant positive shifts related to a significant leap in the amount of payment made to users who alone account for more than 30% of all payments made since the start of the IPA programme. I will not speak here in detail about the components of the IPA program and their stages of realization because here is the Deputy Minister who explained it in detail. As for the implementation of the IPARD programme itself, it was the same thing, the data are somewhat worse, although its effectiveness has increased from 15 to 50%. The reason why the loan for that programme lasted longer and the tenders were held late. And as it comes to programmes used by smaller entrepreneurs, crafts, family economies then I see the problem also in the lack of initial funding and the collection of a number of documentation required by the IPARD programme. I'm going to look a little bit more at what's been done in this period, and I'm going to draw as much funding from the structural funds as possible. One of the most important steps in the context of preparation for the use of EU-RH structural instruments is to obtain work permits without prior controls by EU delegations. In this context, preparatory activities are being carried out intensively to use the Structural and Cohesion Funds and to establish an institutional framework, to develop common national rules for the management of structural elements, to develop documents to assess the compliance of systems with EU rules, to develop programming documents for the EU financial period 2007-2013, to intensify the programming process, and to strengthen administrative capacity in bodies in the EU fund management system. What's been done so far? On 6 July 2012, we adopted in Parliament the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, 4 operational programmes and this operational programme of transport, the environment, regional competitiveness and the operational programme for the development of human potential have been established. Work was continued on the improved draft programming documents, namely the national strategic reference framework and operational programmes sent to the European Commission for consultations. The formal submission of those documents to the European Commission for approval is possible only now that we have joined full EU membership. A number of preparatory activities have also been carried out to complete the system's assessment of compliance with the relevant EU rules with the positive opinion of the audit bodies and the European Commission's auditors. In September, a decision on the establishment of a Coordination Commission for the Preparation of Programme Documents for the EU Financial Report 2014-2020 and the determination of the responsibilities of the bodies involved in the work of the Coordination Commission was taken at the government's meeting. For the body responsible for the organisation, coordination of the process, preparation of programming documents, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds shall be designated. The coordination committee met in November and thematic working groups were set up, including the authorities of the state administration and the competent institutions responsible for the preparation of programming documents. During this reporting period activities have also begun to establish a system of management of the use of structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia. By 21 October 2012, 232 additional persons were employed in the work of preparing projects and implementing tenders, strengthening internal audit and control systems and reporting irregularities. Also, the government's decision opened 138 new jobs for which public invitation tenders were published and up to 31 December employed 28 additional employees, leaving 16 employees by the same date of the institution. At the end of the reporting period, 939 persons and 8 persons were employed during the implementation of IPA programmes and EU funds and 8 persons were employed through vocational training for work without working relationship for comparison in June 2012 with 815 workers or 124 workers. In the context of strengthening administrative capacity, a number of education programmes have been organised under which over 600 participants participated in education. Also, 295 students attended an education cycle called Management of the EU Structural Instruments Management in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that in the future, it is also necessary to put emphasis on education in order to make better use of the Structural Funds in order to establish a stronger coordination of activities related to the preparation of use, improvement of use and a sustained increase in the use of EU funds at a high level and, of course, to achieve a greater degree of exploitation of these funds and, consequently, overall growth and development in the Republic of Croatia. And finally to conclude. The report shows continuous progress related to success, agreement, payment of funds from the EU assistance programme and has seen very low levels of irregularities. I therefore welcome all the efforts made by the Government and the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds to withdraw as much as possible and to prepare as possible for the use of EU structural programmes. Therefore, the SDP Club will accept the report on the use of pre-accession programmes to assist the EU for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45284	Thank you, too. Your presentation will be replicated by a colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Ivcevic, in this presentation, you've actually introduced us to what was being prepared and being prepared for the use of structural and cohesion funds, so I'm glad that I've had the opportunity to hear it and get to know us a little bit about it, but there's only one more part of it missing, so if you're going to be able to complete that part of it, which, with the provision of funds, is the home component especially that connects to local self-government units, given that there could be a budget collapse of local self-government units if we don't have predetermined things because the units of local self-government in whose premises are going to be funded or from cohesion structural funds won't be able to bear that burden. I'm saying it from a concrete example if you get into a situation where you have a program that weighs perhaps 250 million kuna if the local self-government component is only 10%, then you can imagine what that means for some smaller unit of local self-government in a burden of about 3.4 years. What I'm sure is a little bit in the eye is the information that you've made that you've done new employment in the state administration, that somewhere around 130 people you've said employed that you've done education, additional education. So I ask the question so what are all the educations of all the previous 10 years that have been funded and also from various pre-accession European funds? And was it really necessary to hire new people or could the existing be redistributed and exploited by people who were already quite well involved in it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45286	Thank you. We have an answer from my colleague Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45287	So here's what we know about the funding itself, and we know that HABOR has made a special line of credit for these projects, very favourable loans, so here it will certainly be able to finance from the HABOR loan and also from business banks that have also offered good and favourable loans to finance the domestic component. As far as education is concerned, I really don't think she's ever had enough. We're going into a period of time, so we've entered the European Union. Of course the funds are different, the applications are different, they're structural funds. And it certainly takes as many people as possible to be involved in education, especially people from local units, local self-government, since we hope that these units will also withdraw as much funds as possible. We know that in the state administration, wages aren't too high, we know that they're mostly low, so here I said, and there's a lot of people in this report and it's gone that worked on these programs from the ministry itself. Therefore, additional employment must have been necessary. And here it was necessary to strengthen additional administrative capacity within the ministries themselves in order to prepare quality for the withdrawal of funds from the Structural Funds. It's about funds where we have a lot more resources, a lot more opportunities to withdraw. And without high-quality people, educated personnel, we certainly won't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45288	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, Marijan Skvarić. Here's your colleague, Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45289	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, As a member of the European Union now, this is practically one of the first points of the agenda that we have in a way to speak and what we need and what we need from Europe and what we are ultimately looking for. ... We were expecting money, funds from the European Union Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on this report, we can say the same thing, that's what IPA call it, IPARD is practically done. We have an analysis of what we've done and how we've done some things. ... The report sees this, we can conclude that in this period of July 1st, 31st, the National Fund has been identified by the European Commission 6.6m euros, which makes up over 21% of the total amount allocated since the start of the implementation of the IPA programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total IPA agreed on 31 December amounts to 410m euros, which accounts for 60% of the total allocated amount, i.e. 623m euros since the implementation of the IPA programme. It's a contracted asset. And as for those who have paid the funds and on that basis, the situation is that in that part is paid... The entire 15% of the total amount agreed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the fact that we can also conclude that the percentages of the agreed and allocated funds per individual components of the IPA programme from certain finances the location ranged from 21% to... percent, and the percentage of payments from 26% to 100%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in the end, when we analyze this data, we can find out that we haven't used... One million euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It looks a lot, looks a little bit. But that we can determine what our comfort is. It is a comfort that none of the transition countries have used all the funds by entering the European Union. In particular, we can point out that for individual components and locations of IPA end-users and contractors more than double the amount of funds has been paid compared to the previous reporting period. The data is that before it was a percentage contracted and paid by 38% is now 70%. And with this, we can very much conclude that we have sent a great message that we have a positive trend in location and use of European Union funds. It means we learned something from it. And I could say that, thanks to the work of the ministries and all of us, we have achieved one such high efficiency of the European Union funds. On this report, I'd put one small remark on how IPA in this section has called and three, there are three regulations. Of these questions, two were processed in this Report, the third question was not processed in this Report. I think we should, though, because then we should get a quality report that we have in that part of the discussion. Namely, that race ended in 16. 4. 2012 And based on Article 112 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission’s Regulations shall be submitted to the Commission by 30 June each year at the latest to the Annual Implementation Report, which must be previously approved by the Joint Monitoring Committee. The first annual report shall be submitted for the second year following the approval of the programme, i.e. Slovenia must report what they have done by the end of June. Now why Slovenia. Well above all, in this third discussion of the IPA components of cross-border cooperation Croatia-Slovenia, the joint secretariat is located at the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy in Ljubljana, and the information point in Croatia lies with the Ministry of Regional Development of the European Union Funds. In short, Slovenia has the main word in the evaluation of the project. In that section, what is defined is that there is no information on the official pages of the programme, no public statement at this time, so that all those who have run for this third range of programmes have no information on when a concrete completion of the evaluation of the project will take place. Namely, these evaluations take more than 14 months and they will not be completed before autumn this year, and according to the action programme, the evaluation was due to be completed in autumn last year. So basically those problems that we're facing, not just here with this particular case, but what were the problems... that, first of all, when you actually apply for projects, you have to provide yourself with financial resources. For IPA programs you must have these funds... yourself by means of your means and then by demand to justify the costs then at a certain level and these costs return. We're all in that part of the funds planned in this financial year. At the same time as the cost-effectives worked before in these programmes of labour prices, services, goods, materials were planned in the previous year. We know that this year's prices, and all of these conditions change sharply. At the time when the implementation and evaluation of the project occurs most often, many of them at that time and give up the project because they do not have prepared funds for one such realization. That's another problem. So my proposal is that here I really ask you to try to see with the Commission that this evaluation of the project, that last third IPA discussion, is done as quickly as possible, and if you can also leave the possibility of harmonising the budget with the new prices and potential costs that are in that part. This would ensure quality and timely implementation of cross-border cooperation projects by Slovenia and Croatia and thus could be more concrete, better known in essence how the total use of the project itself is. But what I can say, in general, is that part of the report is really high-quality, where it really is an analysis in all segments of the use of IPA and IPARD, and I think that what I said at the beginning, that we sent an annual message, and that is especially what is a positive trend in using these projects, and indeed, above all, the Ministry has proven very much that there is a plan here now after entering the European Union how to increase this percentage even more because the funds that are now available are much larger than these funds that we had in pre-accession funds. In particular, what we also have solutions, we need to increase absorption capacity, and first of all we have to do everything and it seems to increase capacity, first of all financially and operational municipalities and cities. Because regardless of the fact that no country has used 100% of all resources, the ail is the fact that we should make every effort to use as many of these funds as possible and follow positive examples as possible, for example. It's Estonia, Latvia, Poland and so... with the organization of the state we take advantage of the highest... resources, and I can really say that we see that trend very well. What I could say as mayor is that it's also an opportunity, a challenge for all of us. We talked yesterday and always about decentralisation. This is the best possible form of decentralisation,...the European Union funds. As much as the mayors, mayors and the entire local administration are capable, professionally, that they can use their goals and visions of development in that part and make use of them, they will use them. I don't think there's any complaints in that part then why someone in that part shouldn't have helped me. The Ministry is doing the best possible to join us in what we need and bring what we need closer to what we need, and it's up to us to take advantage of it. I can say an example of this practice. As mayor, I had to say and I had to because in the last eight years of my term, we have now not received funding from... the ministries in this new third year. We turned to funds, pre-accession funds. 11 projects that we have implemented, that is more than a few of the original budget revenues of the town of Lepoglava. So that means you can. At the same time now also with quality prepared projects and programs... we entered the funds we also got from the IPARD program for the purifier of funds. We have funded a complete project documentation for the 10m-euro sewerage that we will run towards the European Union funds. And what is also important to me for the economy, we have received support for the project documentation of the construction of the Centre of Excellence for the development of wood industry, but Croatian, based on what the city has funded, sectoral analysis and with the support of ministries. That's what we can say that can be said, and it's up to us if we're able to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45290	Thank you, too. Next to discuss, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Therefore, this report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012 has so far been included by all speakers with a very objective, very high quality, very professional and almost technically impeccable. The Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance is a financial instrument to help candidate countries such as Croatia and prepare for the use of structural funds. Namely, the IPA programme for this financial period from 2007 to 2013, as we know, and I think it is time to remind ourselves of all those who worked on previous programmes, he simply absorbed CARDS, PHARE and SAPARD and ISPA program. So he, or we can say in a good way, and he was a flexible instrument and he provided different levels of assistance. The financial value of the IPA programme for the period 2007 to 2012 is 11 and a half million euros. So the main goal was to help countries especially in their development of competitiveness, and I say preparations for the following funds. It contained five components as seen in this report in detail by each component of transition assistance, institution building, cross-border cooperation, regional development, human potential development and rural development. I think it is right, sir, that these are objective facts that are given and that the minister can be satisfied with these done and that he rightly says that the efficiency of the use of pre-accession funds has been significantly raised. Therefore, for the period from 1.7 to 31 December 2012. The European Commission has amounted to 60.6m euros at the expense of the National Fund. So, for the current government's mandate, the efficiency of the use of funds from EU pre-accession programmes has increased from 37% to 70%. So over the past year and a half from pre-accession funds, 200m euros have been granted, and in three previous years a total of 250m euros. So, we can expect this to tell us, this is a strong basis, objective criteria that speak of the right and with a lot of faith we enter into the use of both the possibility and the capacity to withdraw funds from structural funds. So in this year, a record payment of 210m euros is expected. Special progress as the minister himself has also apostrophe and here the deputy has been made in the IPARD agricultural fund where efficiency has increased from 15% to 50%. As I mentioned and will say again, this report includes key data in the implementation of all components and IPA programs, but it's equally irrefutable to talk about something where we're deficited and where we have to open up here about our big problem. This has been discussed in view of yesterday's proposal for a law on strategic investment, and we will also talk about it, and we will meet with the problem that seeks to solve the proposal for a law on the improvement of entrepreneurial infrastructure that our units of local self-government have very little and little use of these funds and the question is how much further they are prepared. So here's the exact information that our units of local self-government have invested a little bit, they're using a little bit so far, they've been using these funds a little bit. Here's an example of the city of Zadar. When I asked why he didn't withdraw a single euro, it was said that, on my own, I was talking about independent projects, we were told it wasn't a crisis, so we didn't need it. So, regardless of the politicizing or political answers, how low our consciousness was in general. I think this is one awareness-raising and a readyness that no matter what the situation is, the economic situation in the country that these are the funds that are primarily, first of all, must not be used but exploited. For example, Slovenia per capita and their units of local self-government are here the most profitable people of 203 euros, i.e. Croatia 203 euros, and Slovenia 415. So more than twice as much. So this opens up a key problem with us public administrations and local self-governments and their readiness. If we are to use these funds at all, if we are to face unemployment and the struggle with the crisis at all, we will have to lead, or as a central government to help but not to help local self-government units, but by enabling and forcing them to simply invest, to open up, to do what they are trying to do in accordance with the central government. We also have to face the problem that at least 50 units of local self-government depend directly on state aid for wages. So, it is, and many worry only about how they will pay their employees their wages, so on investment, there is no talking about investment. Then how can we talk, so ready for structural funds? It would be unfair to point out that many units of local self-government have solved the almost unemployment problem using these funds. And there it is, I will again point out independently of the political colors, the alliances that rule locally that many have done so and transformed their unit of local self-government, their end. Here, this is an opportunity to, because tomorrow we will already withdraw those funds to say something about the Structural Fund, because the IPA programme has also been preparing for the use of structural funds and how, in the EU financial period for the period 2014 to 2020, we have also been consulted by our partners. That is exactly what the ministry, a resolution ministry with stakeholders who will be involved in programming and drawing up measures for future operational programmes on the basis of which EU funds will be approved. In contrast to practice so far, the European Commission itself has simply set 11 thematic objectives, i.e. the priority where each country will choose what is its and where it will find itself and within which it will be able to report its projects. EU funds will be able to finance projects in the field of research, technological development and innovation, the use of information and communication technologies, the strengthening of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, which is very important for Croatia as a maritime country, as a fishing country. But also environmental protection, promotion of sustainable transport, promotion of employment primarily for young people, social inclusion, investment in education, and strengthening institutional capacity and efficiency of public administration. Here, the first tenders are expected because certain preparations have already been made, expected in October of this year for nearly 600m euros. Therefore, certain grand schemes have already been prepared and worth 120m euros, and the European Commission's priority will be to assess exactly how specific it is and how competitive such a programme is exactly how much it contributes to the competitiveness of the country compared to the others. Since it is therefore a large budget of around 1.4 billion euros annually plus 300m euros for the development of agriculture, rural development will therefore succeed, as the minister himself noted, and some deficits and debts. And thus, we will also have the multiple benefit and effect of using EU funds in this way. That's why every renunciation I don't think it's even serious, which speaks of hiring, of course, first of all, the use of professional people within individual ministries and redistribution. But in any case, we need not only employment so far but they are needed just to do the job in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45292	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45293	Thank you very much. My colleagues Ingrid, you were talking about the financial envelope waiting for us, etc., but for the public's sake, we need to know that our application is 600m euros per year. So Croatia is applying 600m euros annually as if I were to say a shortened or simplified membership fee in the EU. That's 4.5 billion kuna, or that's almost 4% of the Croatian state budget. Furthermore, you were talking about the fact that local environments are weakly applying programmes either on those who have spoken so far to CARDS, PHARE, SAPARD, IPARD and finally IPA in the 5 components and mainly the City of Zagreb where you said there was no project towards the EU. That's how much I've remembered your words. Why didn't the City of Zagreb apply that? Although human beings are also well equipped and therefore able to write projects, has people, has professional services, and is financially well-understood? Because the City of Zagreb budget is almost 7 billion kuna. A budget that makes it relatively easy for me to say the easy way to rule in which and the budget that is equal to the sum of the budgets of all counties and cities in the Republic of Croatia and the municipalities. So the City of Zagreb has the same size as all counties and cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have 550, 560 l'. So, is this why the City of Zagreb budget of about 7 billion kuna, 6.5.7 was dependent on what year, that no project from the City of Zagreb was actually applied? And because of this, and when it comes to regionalisation of Croatia, we in Slavonia have objected to the fact that unification in the two statistical regions of continental and Adriatic Croatia is not good because now Croatia's entry into the EU will take great advantage of the application of the projects and the City of Zagreb and those environments that are more developed in relation to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45294	Thank you, too. We have your colleague Anticevic's answer. Here you go. ... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45297	Both small and medium and larger, you're absolutely right, the cities used little. Maybe cities at least. Why? Not if he was kidding them, I'd say so. It was more comfortable knocking on the door of the ministries, then boasting how much the individual ministry gives us, although it would have been before the end of the term of office that government was empty then that would have been zero at the end of the execution. But it was nice to figure out 364 days in front of the citizens of a certain city that the ministry assigned us so much, and it actually came down not to two letters but to zero. So, it was one irresponsible behavior, but I'd say one thing first and foremost immature behavior. But already then, small municipalities are an example of our fellow Matjanans who took over power in 2004 in the small municipality of Kamanja newly founded with a thousand and one problem, with great unemployment. There has been no unemployed man there for several years now. So this is a time when they didn't want us to, and we can pull some good things out of bad times like the old Jewish proverb says who knows what kind of evil for which good, that they'll force us to get caught in our own strength, in our own mind. These are grants, which are very expensive for Croatia. We enlisted in a society, an elite society, which requires membership. The question, therefore, is how much will be our ability and our determination and willingness to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45298	Thank you, too. Next replica Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, we're kind of continuing what we did yesterday seems to me to be talking and opposing thoughts about local self-government. So I'm surprised by your great pleasure and enthusiasm by the realization of projects from pre-accession funds. I wish it was somewhere on 70, 80% then we could say we have a good realization. And you don't think these pre-accession projects were made in the first half of 2012 and were implemented in the second half of 2012? So these are projects that were nominated in 2011 and before. Now they've only come to their realization and final stage. Therefore, if you say so, then you should be congratulated on those who previously participated and who knew nothing about it, so 130 and some new people were hired to prepare projects. Well, you didn't get new people preparing and doing these projects. At the very least, it was mostly done by the local self-government units that we're talking about. And again I'm setting that thing up, let's not look through the prism of some, and I'll say again, you've set some examples. And my little town has nominated over the past few years about eight projects, and now there are 2 in realisation 2 waiting for the tender to start realising because we saw there's no money in the state register and we have to focus elsewhere. But we didn't hire new people, but we used the existing capacities we didn't hire. And what's most important and most important, pre-financing well, fat every mayor, mayor or mayor thinks about which project he's going to apply for because he has to pre-finance it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45300	Time. Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, fellow Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45301	So when you say you ran for two projects I personally congratulate you on that, but your explanation of why you did it says because we saw that there was no money in the state, so we turned to those funds. That's the wrong fellow, dear. No matter how much money the state has, it always has a place to use it when there's a possibility in local self-government units to the state. And the state has through certain ministries itself withdraws funds. So here's how you said yourself that they've been acting, and most of them so far, we haven't been useful because we didn't need it, we didn't need any grants. So we'll milk our own country and when someone gives us free of charge, we won't because there's something to do. I think it's wrong. And when you say that these are results, it doesn't diminish anyone's significance, and since 2000, individual programs have been used, so some have come to the realization in 2002, 3 or 4 and so, but the fact remains is the efficiency of using funds for a year and a half days from 37 came to 70% and that's a good trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45302	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45303	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, first of all, I would like to correct the claim that it is free of charge. You said your own state must and free funds won't. They're not free. We pay the membership fee, so we understand each other. However, I agree fully with you that this opportunity Croatia must take advantage of. There are huge resources available, and it will be our sin if we don't. But in vain and a speech about how we should put everything into our own strengths and minds when the units of local self-government are in a situation and where they are, highly centralised states. The main problem with the participation of our municipalities and cities in the withdrawal of these funds is the lack of fiscal decentralisation that we are talking about all the time. The municipalities and cities do not have enough funds for their share of the projects they must participate in. And that's what we've been pointing to for years and I'm glad that the Deputy Minister is here, so whenever we've pointed out that we're sharing in two statistical regions that we're going to get into a situation that the less developed municipalities and cities are in the impossible, they have big needs but they won't have fiscal opportunities to participate in the application for these projects, no one wanted to listen to us. We are specifically here in Osijek-Baranja County that we have a regional development agency that is very successful, most successful in Croatia, but the needs and project ideas that exist far greater than fiscal opportunities but what is particularly worrying in Croatia, remembers Mr. Puljiz when we talked about it, one of the preconditions of using funds are administrative capacity. Croatia also faces a lack of skilled and qualified people to write the project. We're missing enough quality management projects. So fiscal decentralisation, administrative capacity are the basic preconditions for Croatia to use available funds. And we agree that it will be a sin for all of us if we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45304	Here's my colleague Anticevic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45305	Nothing, I totally agree with what you said. However, this leads us to the fact that certain units of local self-government not only because of their size, I don't think that this size is allowed in a new structure that we have to attach to, and then it can only come to what we promised to fulfill and fiscal decentralisation, so that they can survive those municipalities that really can financially and also humanly survive. Some who were less than all of them were still... during this period using funds especially in this cross-border regional cooperation and thus, no matter what others, let's say those close to Slovenia are here again mentioning the Municipality of Kamalje which she received from the beginning from the use of the programme she may have received from the use of the programme and the other 2/3, and already in the next one approached So some have taken advantage of and this relatively unfavourable period. But what we cannot base ourselves on just such exceptions, what Croatia definitely needs is a new territorial structure, and where no one who comes from its end can say that for another city, for another county and not for mine. I think that's the condition of our progress right now. Because one municipality, what's the point of the municipality if there's only so much for the mayor or the mayor, and that makes sense to her for two, three employees. So I confronted him as a minister where he called the Ministry's office every moment to be his legal aid. Well, when he's told, you're welcome to buy a folk newspaper. Well, he says I've been to the movies and there's no folk newspaper on the newsstand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45306	Thank you. Next replica of Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45307	Thank you, Mr Vice President, you spoke of activities, i.e. inactivity of units of local self-government and withdrawal of funds until the entry into the European Union, or too little capacity. There is, and you mentioned the city of Zadar in a negative context as well. There are other examples from our joint county, which is my central city of Benkovac. So we've totalled 6 million euros through CARDS, PHARE and IPA so far. But I have mentioned several problems that despite the activities of the local self-government units will be a problem in withdrawing funds now that we have entered the European Union. And this is, therefore, all the particles that were in the building zone which were located, i.e. they had a category of forest economic base in the former spatial plans, the former municipalities on the orders of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia were registered as the owner. And so we wanted to or didn't want to have a problem but today. And those assets that are ahead of us are one of the reasons why we won't withdraw them is that one. It simply needs to find a formula and a way out of the existing situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45308	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45309	... The problem you're telling your colleague is not just a feature for Benkovac, many units of local self-government faced it. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And the state's attorney's office was registered and it was due to register on the property. Why it was registered and the others did not register is the same as the failure of previous owners whether they were natural persons, legal persons and local self-government units. It was also, I can't go into the details now because it's a bit of a broader problem, but basically here's what you told me that I can answer you like this why the town of Benkovac didn't register earlier but was waiting for the state to sign up for it. This has not yet failed, because those who, where the state enlisted through the state's attorney's office, have been sued somewhere and have successfully completed some in favour of the prosecutor, i.e. an individual or a legal person. If it's a problem and a forest, I don't think it's time or place to get into it right now. But it's one of the problems that we can also see with the ministry and by doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45310	Thank you. Next replica Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45311	Mr. Vice President. My colleague Anticevic, you've said a lot of things here. I would say we should use European funds 100%, completed replica, completed discussion. We'd all like to, and we'll do everything we can. But it bothers me a little bit when you sort of represent it as if the European Union will solve all of this and employment, employment will not solve it. Agriculture, which this government is destroying, will not be able to resolve in the next 50 years. Fishing, we had to give them the right to hunt to Brač. Don't let me count on you. There were underdeveloped in Yugoslavia, and those who singled out for the underdeveloped. Well, she's singled out the entire South, and the underdeveloped are still underdeveloped. They haven't evolved. And so will we, if we, our own forces, if this government doesn't realize that it has to solve this country's problems. ... They create an illusion in the Croatian people that this, entering the European Union, will solve everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't say it won't solve anything but these are more or less all environmental projects and these, those who are welcome in Croatia. But you could end up without them. But employment, production, industry won't. I'll tell you in the end. You say you can't do it without the past, somehow what I know, you're obsessed with the former government. That the former government left an empty register. Do you know fellow Anticevic that Minister Linic said yesterday that the Croatian cashier is empty, empty. No, in half a year, the entire state budget was spent. There's no money for hospitals for this, for that. There isn't. The state register's been empty for seven months. Well, for a year, you've been in power for two years. That's kind of why you tell me what's going on and not what happened two years ago why it was empty and it wasn't empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45312	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45313	So you guys are replicating and saying something that I didn't say, and then you yourself are going to say something, so whatever you're saying, you're saying something that I didn't say so that you could disprove and say it. But since you're talking about it, then I'm going to replicate it to you, so now it wouldn't even be an answer to the line. You say nothing was spent before, now it's spent, before it was empty. Not that it wasn't empty, but we can tell more that it wasn't empty. And I've never said it, and it's the greatest delusion that someone will solve something for us. No one's gonna solve anything for us. The European Union is no savior, but it is not a milk cow. The European funds are available, we are committed to this, we must pay the membership fee. Thus, it depends on us how much we use these funds. And it's always up to us, no matter what society we're in, how we live, it's up to us here. At local level as well as what kind of politics we're running. But the fact is that many things are blocked or not seen is this willingness or not understanding and what can be done at the level of units of local, local self-government. But there's something that we're also going to have to face and what you're talking about, about the sale, so you listed everything that's being sold out. The Croatian government has said exactly that those goods standing by the Constitution will never be sold out or sold out. However, what you are talking about now and that is, it would agree with you but it is one big problem where we will have to obviously next year when elections for the European Parliament are that the missed policy of the majority in the European Parliament that has just led to smaller countries where they have to sell everything out, sell everything, and not invest in production, comes at a charge, and we are a good part of the victim and that. It is up to us to say not to that policy here and here, but also at European level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45314	Thank you. The next replica and the last one. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Antičević-Marinović, it's nice to hear about the possibilities and look optimisticly at these possibilities, and I don't believe that here from the head of local self-government that whoever has the opportunity and that everyone in their own way tried to use and use funds. And those watching certainly tried and worked, not only did they knock on the Ministry's door like you say, and if they had knocked, it wouldn't have been quite a success because I'm testifying from my county in the middle where he was in power by now, a member of your coalition, the ministry has not quite been respected. Very small, so we say, very small funds have been received and we remain nothing at the time of this present. But please let it go. You said that in these possibilities and these resources will help develop agriculture. I hold that this is what happened in this year and a half with agriculture that it's really that I don't know what kind of resources that they can't help because agriculture is so devastated and destroyed that it's simply irreparable. But the other thing is, there's been some mistakes in the steps to put it that way. Let's just remember with that paying agency when the European Commission sent for repairs and that's where we slipped through the needle ears, at the last minute we were in that part. The second thing, meanwhile, Croatia's agricultural chamber ended as it ended, but the problem is that other services are not qualified to help our farmers withdraw those funds. There is a problem and it is one moment to be warned because this attitude towards agriculture and the village is inadmissible and discriminatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45316	Thank you, too. We have an answer. Here you go, fellow Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45317	You've listed a lot of things, something I haven't even said, but I'll look back on that. So you say there's a knock on the door, it wouldn't be useful, and what happened was a little approved. Yeah, it's a little approved, it's approved what's said, it's approved, it's accomplished. And you've approved through the individual departments of dozens, tens of millions, and the result has been zero for the last two years. I'm telling you about the City of Zadar, look at it in the execution of the budget and you'll see. And you know your environment better. Also, special progress has been made in the IPARD agricultural fund where efficiency has increased from 15% to 50%. You can see that in this report. Of course, here I can agree with you to strengthen the capacity of all those entities, all stakeholders to extract funds from structural funds, especially for agriculture and fisheries, for aquaculture where large funds are provided. I think that both this report and my entire debate and those predecessors who spoke before gave us the right in view of this good trend that we are therefore not just laying hope and faith, something that will happen, which we hope is often a reference to earlier years. We believe, we hope. There's nothing out of hope, there's no naked hope of irresponsibility. We're working, and the results are already showing up. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45318	Thank you. You had a chance at the replica of your colleague Milinkovic. We're continuing an individual debate. Frano Matušić, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to start my debate perhaps unusually for this current course, and I'm going to start by congratulating all those who have managed to withdraw funds from these pre-accession aid programmes, because indeed all those who have succeeded in withdrawing funds have mastered all the mechanisms that needed to be mastered in order to withdraw these funds and to realise projects. In this sense, all the participants of these projects actually earned praise and congratulations, and they are numerous, from small family economies to public large enterprises, to local self-government units and to other numerous participants in the economy and all social life structures in the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, I really don't think there's any reason to make any difference, and there's no reason to even try to pin blame on someone or try to attribute some pluses to that whole process because these processes take several years. All those who know what it's all about know that from the moment of the call for tenders to the withdrawal of funds, to the payment, to the realisation of the funds, it's been going on for several years. So this is a process that will continue, which will continue for some programmes, of course not even complete the tender periods for some programmes, payments are until 2015. So that's the period ahead of us, which is going to run parallelly and with the possibility of using funds now from structural and cohesion funds. What is important is how much today's government in the Republic of Croatia is ready to respond to the challenges that are ahead of us today. These programs will of course run their course over time and I am sure that the realization of the highest part of these IPA components will be realised above 90%. I believe that's how it's going to be, and it's a really high level of realization, because we know by the programs that are behind us like PHARE and the others that we already mentioned that the realization was over 90%. In this sense, Croatia has been successful in using pre-accession funds. But what is more important to us today is the issue of using the structural and cohesion funds at our disposal. And now there comes the one who is worried and comes criticism actually of this ruling coalition in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. Indeed, there is a real danger that the European Commission is prohibiting us from using European funds. Why? Because we showed one unbelief that was not expected from Croatia, which is that at the Croatian Parliament, we voted at the proposal of the Government to amend the Law on the European Arrest Order. And now you're gonna wonder what that has to do with the funds. There is a great deal, because this vote of these amendments to the Law on the European Arrest Warrant has actually proved to be an unbelief of the Republic of Croatia because Croatia, for reasons only known to the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Prime Minister Milanovic, has changed parts of that law which, according to the interpretation of the European Commission, could not be changed after Croatia passed this law in 2010. So one hypothetical question can be asked today, which I think and answer very easily, which is whether Germany would ratify Croatia's EU Accession Agreement, if the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament had voted to amend the Law on the European Arrest Order before the Bundestag did so in the event of ratification of the Croatian agreement with the EU. It is certainly not that, quite certainly, there would be no ceremony on July 1st for Croatia's entry into the EU, if only 15 days before the amendment of the Law on the European Arrest Warrant Croatia would not today be an EU member, we would not have completed the ratification process. So that says enough how unfortunately we have shown an unworthy picture of ourselves, about the EU. Be assured that in this way we will find partners in the EU very difficult to make friends, and indeed so far we have had one unlimited trust, we have had a great friendship in everyone we have worked with in both the European Parliament and the European Commission and all the doors have been open to us. However, after this I would say the incredible move of the Croatian Government to amend the Law on the European Arrest Order for these known reasons is indeed not Croatia today credible and has not entered as a credible member. We fell on the first step, but at the first step we showed how unworthy we are and how many people keep the figs in their pockets. The second question is, did Croatia enter prepared 1.7? It is also related to European funds. As far as she's prepared, the best show is the columns at the borders, on the eastern borders towards Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This best shows how much the administration, how much the government is, how many individual ministers have been prepared to make Croatia a member of the EU 1.7 this year. I think they made it very clear that they were not ready and that they forgot that when we signed the contract after the negotiations had been concluded, the painfully completed negotiations that the date had already been defined as being on July 1st 2013. However, we were welcomed by unprepared border crossings, unprepared personnel. So, all that was needed to do during that period, this government did not do and speaks enough about how the Republic of Croatia was prepared in its first steps as a full member of the EU. Even when we add this law that we discussed yesterday, the Strategic Investment Projects Act, which is about additional centralisation, I think is smart enough how this government joins the EU. As far as the projects themselves are concerned, I am more concerned about what projects the government will propose through operational programmes and which projects will be allocated to EU funding. Because we know that a large number of units of local self-government, and among them here are specifically my county is very successful in withdrawing funds from European funds, i.e. from pre-accession aid programmes. And in that sense, it is certain that a large number of projects will be reported not only from our county but also from others. We heard about the success of the development agency in Osijek County, too, and we know that they withdrew those significant funds. But I am interested in what criteria the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be guided when it proposes these programmes further because we have seen and we have already witnessed that some programs have stopped on that step because some, someone has set some other priorities and someone has recognised in some other priorities from some other environments that this is exactly what the Republic of Croatia needs right now. I think that there should be greater transparency, above all, of the Ministry of Regional Development, which should, by specific criteria, explain which projects it proposes as priorities, of course, in line with all the programmes, in line with pre-accession assistance programmes. And in this regard we expect a greater transparency in the next period. As for the very use of the resources at our disposal, I would really like to believe that this improvement in administrative capacity, which has also been one of the criteria for Croatia's final preparedness report, will indeed bring results in the next period. But I am afraid because there are already indications that young experts working in these programmes are actually leaving these jobs and going to better paid places either outside of Croatia or Croatia, in companies where their knowledge is more appreciated. And in that sense, we should find a way to keep those experts. Our development agencies are here to help units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, counties and they are absolutely certain to believe to the greatest extent well-trained and with regard to capacity there is no problem. However, it seems to me that this part of the state government, and I say it was also a criterion for the European Commission's positive report that it is not yet done enough and that there is still space. Besides, as I recall, there was a need for around 250 experts to shut down these facilities completely. And as far as I know, I know that somewhere around 130 of them were employed last year. I expect this process to really be completed so that Croatia will be ready in every area to withdraw funds. And I really agree with my colleague Marasovic, we would all be happy that we can withdraw 100% of the funds and we should do everything on it. However, what remains of our homework will not be done to us by the EU or by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45320	Thank you. We have reports of replicas. First came Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, at the very beginning of your presentation, you congratulated and commended all those who worked on numerous projects, so here I join these congratulations and praises. But you said you shouldn't be looking for a guilty man. We may not need to look for the culprit, but we need to see what can be fixed so that these funds are even more exploited and that even more comes into our RH funds of the grants that are now our only salvation and exit. We all agreed that successful preparation will bring multiple benefits and certainly all state officials and all of us in local self-government units. However, today almost no one, or at least I have heard him mention one important link in the preparation of the projects, which are numerous designers, studio makers, architects, geodetics entrusted with these tasks to prepare the project until the permit is completed. We know after the invitation to tender that this must be given to the projectors, or those who offer the lowest price. In most cases, however, we have very bad experience with it. I think that from the position of the mayor of the town of Vodice I can talk about it since we successfully completed the project and opened the Park Fausto Vrančić memorial in September of last year from the IPA programme co-financed and now we have made all preparations for the construction of the sewer system for all Vodice-Tribunj. In fact, we have a case that geodetics, the geodetic house from Zagreb, which won the competition, did not even walk the field, and then we have problems in the realization and outcome of the documentation. So then the deadlines were first agreed to be prepared and almost until August last year, and then we see that there are some corrections, and then there was no time to prepare the application until that date, and then it was extended for October and then again for January this year, and then for March, etc. Someone who has no experience in public procurement may say that we need to break the contract and call a new one, but we know that it would be another half a year lost, and then we decide on some memos that affect such makers. I would like, here, because I'm running out of time, to make something in that field to be automated in such important projects, where it comes into question the withdrawal of European means of automation chooses the second in a row if we see that it doesn't work, and it really doesn't work in practice. Here, thank you very much. Once again, praise all those who have worked, my personal experiences in both Croatian waters and the Ministry and people on the ground, those who work with their hearts and work very well. The big problem is these very houses that have been entrusted with the work of preparing projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45322	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you colleagues, I think it would be much more useful if the government had proposed a deadline cut, let's say in the Public Procurement Act, and let's not say that this is a deadline cut and all that she said through the proposal of the Strategic Investments Act is actually probably what will eventually result in abuse of positions and powers, I suppose, ultimately, of the many issues that are related to this law. So, I agree with you that the Public Procurement Act is very often controversial, very often creating problems especially at local levels, and there should be further improvements. Here's what I suggest is that together we maybe make some kind of proposal that we could possibly send into the process. Of course, when we talked about guilt, I didn't want to highlight any individual problems. Let's just say who's to blame why the Peljek Bridge isn't continuing to build? Of course we could have highlighted those problems. Today, many from the ruling coalition are trying to appear in the Croatian public as great advocates of the bridge, and as they now look forward to the European Commission's positive opinion on the bridge to continue to be built. Today, when it is seen that this bridge is actually a fundamental infrastructure facility in the area of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and means connecting not only that part of Croatia today, but it means connecting really all of Croatia and in this sense it is a strategic project from that bridge this same ruling coalition gave up when we proposed the 2011 Budget saying that it is an unnecessary project, that it does not make sense, that this should be resolved in some other ways. Some of them even said it was a project for fools, literally in such words, and today we see that they became advocates. I'm glad they changed their minds because if that bridge is built, and I believe it will, because if it doesn't, this government will build it the next one that will certainly not be theirs. So I am convinced that this construction will see the light of day and that this main infrastructure facility will finally be completed on behalf of all Croatian citizens, especially the well-being of the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45324	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45325	Mr. Matušić that I want to build that bridge, too, but it will not be built either by this or by this next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45326	I'm sorry, Your Honor, the word has a distinguished representative, Branko HRg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45327	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is good that you congratulated all those who managed to do something special to local self-government and especially to those local self-governments who did not have wind in the back from other levels but had to fight independently on the market to do something and finance that part of which we are talking about. But the report is always good to look further into the future. And perhaps what you said should address the challenges facing us in the use of EU funds is, in fact, essential. And this problem that your colleague used to say earlier is certainly present in both public procurement and everything else, but maybe these projects will be declared strategic investments, so we'll have that accelerated license path. What is before us and what is sure cannot cause enthusiasm is one major danger already spoken of here, which is the danger of not having funds in the budgets of local self-government. And in that part lies a huge danger that we won't be able to use fund funds even if we're going to get into blockades in local self-government because it responds that we're going to use loans through HBOR or business banks and we're going to have to get consent and for that in local self-government and of course living are not the right answers. So I think the right answer should be that very soon the government will propose the correct rules and instructions on how funds for EU funds used by local self-government will be made. And the answer to the question about VAT. The EU does not recognise VAT. Will local self-government have to pay VAT on that component they have and the total amounts to be used?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45328	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Frano Matušić will respond to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45329	I agree with you colleagues that the issue of funds needed by local self-government units is to provide one of the key issues for the implementation of all projects that are primarily related to the social structure in these units of local self-government and for entrepreneurial zones assumes that there are such projects as well. And in this sense, we really need to find ways first of all to find ways to further decentralised the funds and make those funds available to local self-government units. The leaders of today's ruling coalition in decentralisation were often sworn here, as well as fiscal decentralisation, and they spoke very often. Unfortunately, when they came into position, they talked more about centralised and there's no talking about decentralisation. Therefore, you are absolutely right, and the government needs to find ways to help these municipalities provide enough resources with which they could participate in projects, fortunately, or our misfortune, because we are less developed than many Member States, that percentage of participation is significantly lower and is about 15% for these underdeveloped municipalities, and in that sense I don't think that these funds should be a problem provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45330	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45331	Mr. Matušić, when you spoke about Croatia's preparation in the EU, then you see that in our media under the control of the clear media, there is a very mild picture of this problem created by the collapse of the system, I don't mean a system of general but customs system on our border where we see dozens of kilometers of trucks on both sides of the border and those entering Croatia and those coming out of Croatia. In fact, the assignment of water to drivers has already been portrayed as some sort of major act that has helped solve this problem. And when you were talking about lex Perkovic when I'm brief and clear, then it's an incredible false arrogance in the inconsistencies of this government and certain ministers who make public statements and even in Brussels even as we saw last night on news shows about this case. It is either incredible or it is inconsistencies in arrogance or arrogance in the inconsistencies of the application of a European arrest warrant which clearly binds Croatia and it has signed it. But here is when an illustration has not been carried out for your governments or for those late Ivica Racan prime minister, so political but also economical although in the Constitution we have for robbery during and crime I have a provision unfortunately nothing is done as well as a political alustration that has never been carried out unlike many countries that were also in that socialist bloc that carried out the political austration, let's look at East Germany, let's look at Romania, let's look at Poland, and so on. It's never been done with us. Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45332	Thank you very much. They will respond to your replica, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45333	It is absolutely certain that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for these kilometers and there is no doubt there, directly Minister Linic is responsible together with the Ministry of Transport. And we warned there'd be problems. You said now about these 15 km long columns towards Bajakov we saw what happened to Neum, but it's even worse what happened to the supply of Dubrovnik. A few gas stations in the heart of the season have run out of fuel. We're out of gas, we're out of gas. So it's like we didn't know it was 1. Seven. A Croatian member of the European Union will start to apply the rules that we signed several years earlier. So it is absolutely unacceptable that we were brought into this situation that citizens of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County were brought into the situation in which they were brought. Not to mention the kilometre columns. They were even, inventing from the ruling... how they will provide a special tape for the Dubrovnikers, only for the Dubrovnikites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only for the Dubrovnikers to have, so it was such, a delusion that it was clear to everyone that the Dubrovnikers as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia are part of that package that is marked with those in the European Union, etc., only at that crossing can we go together with all other citizens of the European Union and not beyond that package. I am convinced, here it will be found as soon as possible to solve this because it will indeed bring about huge problems both in the economy and tourism. And I hope to find as urgent solutions as possible. I hear a new ferry was sent yesterday for the Trpanj-Ploche line but it could have been done on the first day. Not that on the first day of 7 to 10 hours trucks are waiting to board a small ferry that can only board a few personal vehicles and maybe one, two trucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45334	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45335	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said that the government had entered the process that ended on July 1st with Croatia's accession to full membership and you listed both kilometers of columns and you mention now and respond to the replica and position of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I would say that the government has not only entered unprepared, but that the government simply does not understand the position of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, that it does not know how and how to help at this time the inhabitants of the southern part of Croatia. You only said part of the problems that are now down in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the problem of supplying oil and gas, the problem of the inability to pass trucks which as the ultimate destination has Dubrovnik, Pelješac, Župa Dubrovačka, then Konavle. By the price of the tickets on the Ploče-Trpanj line, it is terribly expensive, for example for one truck with a trailer over 2000 kuna. It is a new additional cost for an expensive life in southern Croatia anyway. And here we are in this House, and we proposed amendments to the budget when we proposed a continuation of the construction of the Peljev Bridge. We asked for the Croatian Roads programme to determine the need for road arrangements via Peljesac. He came down to the minister of maritime, transport, infrastructure, promised 110 million kuna investment in the Peljesto road in 2012 and 2013. And of all that, about 3 million kunas were invested on a small stock that was only repaired to Prizrin. Thus, a number of procedures on Pelješka cesta that would at least help the inhabitants of southern Croatia to build the Pelješki bridge, have not been done either. You're saying this government is going to start building the Pelje Bridge. I don't know which way. In fact, the European Commission's position, as we hear it, is expected to be undefined and they need the European Commission's view rather than the need to connect southern Croatia to make a normal life in the far south. So here I am really holding that the government has absolutely failed the exam when it comes to the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Otherwise the Republic of Croatia was unprepared with this date 1. 7. when we entered the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45336	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Frano Matušić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45337	Thank you. Here is a colleague I have to correct you I did not say that they will start, this Government, but that they expect that they will start after the European Commission gives green light and, in fact, by means of European funds, to finance this project. But I clearly doubt the willingness of this government and the seriousness of the construction of this infrastructure project that is very important. Here's how much of this was promised, so it wasn't done. Pelješka cesta is a very important infrastructure road for both the economy and tourism, for all, for life in general. Unfortunately, they did not make any of the promised, or one very small fraction as you pointed out. But I am concerned about this unbelief of Croatia. Because indeed, if we happen to have the European Commission as a penalty for amending the European Arrest Order Act prohibiting the use of the European Funds, where we will then meet. What will happen with all the promises, which will be with all the projects, which are being applied today by many businessmen and public companies and everyone else, local unit and self-government. So there is really a question about the seriousness of this government and its responsibility. And they are solely responsible if Croatia is banned from accessing European funds. As far as the bridge is concerned we have already talked about it many times, 310 million kunas have been spent so far and this project has been stopped by 310 million kunas. Plus 150 million kunas are compensated by construction firms for stopping the project and for losing profits according to the project. So 470 million kunas, 460 million kunas were thrown into the wind, but we think it wasn't thrown because something was done there anyway. Insurgents have been made, and this is evident, operational coasts have been made both on the Pelješka side and on the side of Komarna and access roads, so part of the access roads that are headed towards the project, according to the construction site. And in that sense, we really need to continue this project as quickly as possible in order to get it off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45338	Thank you very much. And here's the word for the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45339	And we, the esteemed Vice President, Mr. Representative, seem to live in Finland, as if we don't live in Croatia, as if life starts simply from us today. Yes, I also want to build the Pelješki bridge down, to solve the columns at the entrance to Croatia. But the bridge will not even build this government as it will not be built by some future government but will be built by citizens. That's where we get along. But when you see on the other hand, Mr. MP, that only for the debts of the Croatian highways and Croatian highways from Rijeka to Zagreb, or vice versa, and next year, it is necessary to provide 6.6 billion kuna in the budget. Then you realize there's no money to service or spirits, and there's no bridge. And once again, life doesn't start with 1.7, and regardless of what we call it, lex Perkovic, Croatia would be 1.7 in the European Union and that the law was passed, for example, a month or two days earlier. But what's true is why we lost Mr. Representative maybe for a whole decade. Well, we lost one thing among other things, because someone has trampled on the rights of the weak because of corruption, because of disrespect for minority issues, because of perhaps the crimes committed in the war, arson, etc. That is why we, Mr. Representative, lost a decade and why we are not in the European Union for the past 10 years, and not this Lex Perkovic. But I want to believe that by amending the Constitution, we can abolish the statute of limitations for all politically motivated murders, either according to emigration, or by the kind of migration that has been made towards the Ex-Ambassies and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45340	Thank you very much. I wish all speakers would stick to the subject, not talk about everything but the subject. ... But in any case, he will now respond to your replica, respected representative Frano Matušić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45342	I'm asking you not to throw away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45343	Comrade Cain, I'm glad you've changed your mind in your coalition and realized that this bridge is necessary. What the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County know is necessary and the citizens wanted it, and your government stopped the construction. Therefore, it is absolutely certain that the project is very important for the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. As far as Croatian highways are concerned, you say you need to secure in the budget 6 billion and some kuna. That's not true, you're cheating on the public. Croatian highways are not in the budget at all. Croatian highways are not in the budget at all. How can you say you need to secure in the budget something when you're not even in the budget. There is no item in the Croatian highway budget. ... Therefore, it is certain that you are misleading the public. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As for this law amending the European arrest warrant law...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45344	Please let the honourable representative speak. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45345	As for the Law on the European Arrest Warrant of fellow Cain, a few days ago your colleague Juratovic, who is otherwise a member of the socialist option in the German Bundestag of Croatian Roots, came to the Croatian Parliament and told you that Croatia would never enter that law before Germany ratified. Comrade, we haven't lost a decade, we have lost face in front of our partners in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45346	Thank you very much. The final word on behalf of the HDSSB club will be represented by Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Pugliz with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. It's noon, it's lunchtime, and we all know, the vast majority of us know what charm is, so it's some kind of cabbage, cabbage and meat. When we look at Croatia and statistical regions, then we see that in the continental region, the statistically united Zagreb or that part, the inner part of the charm with 115% of GDP, relative to the average of the European Union and the cabbage, or Slavonia and Baranja with some 36%, depends on what county. This appropriation is intended to cover: And now we've got a charm with 68% of all these mixed ingredients. What Mr. Hrg says all the time, all morning here in connection with this debate, it's the means. So now we continue on this charm by means consisting of units of local self-government from project building funds, then paying administrative staff and pre-financing that local self-government units in the vast majority, mainly in Slavonia and Baranja will not be able to execute, and in Zagreb will. And that's the unfair sarma we talked about and the financing of projects from structural and cohesion funds, but also those that are in place for IPA projects from 1 to 5, which are still in place and which are still being funded, and according to the projects applied from earlier. There are a lot of figures here in this report, clearly it will be accepted because it is an actual situation, but I have to talk about how Croatia is applying 600m euros annually to the European Union, and that even after talks by the prime minister and this government, what was promised about 13 billion euros by 2020 has already fallen close to 9.10 billion euros. It's that cohesion group, he was in Prague meeting, etc. And this number has dropped to 9 to 10 billion euros. When we multiply 7 years by 2020 times 600 million euros that's 4 billion and 200 million euros. So half of it is still possible if we're able to pull it back, and here in this report we see it's 60% for now. That means it's going to be what one folk proverb said "the godfather brought, the godfather ate." So what we're going to do is we're going to probably pull back a little bit more. Who will withdraw it, I have already said the inner part of the charm, which is those who have both human and administrative and financial opportunities to write and run projects and pre-finance projects. And according to the same pattern in Slavonia, somewhere in Caglin, Gundinci, Bebrina, Vodjinci as in Zagreb because we are in the same region of statistical. Osijek-Baranja County and partly the Brod-Posavia County have done well in these pre-accession times. The regional development agency Slavier and Baranja, then the development agencies of the county and cities withdrew certain funds in a relatively good amount, as Mr. Matušić said and commended all those who worked hard to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds. Here someone said today in the debate that it takes relative courage, I think because it is from a position, it needs a new territorial reconstruction of the administrative and administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. We're waiting for that. Here's the government for 20 months now, but there's no talking about it, so it's very important to say and the distinguished parliamentary MPs in the position to hear that and at least if nothing else is at least thinking about it. When these announcements that there could be a ban on access to funds due to this kind of reckless move, arrogance in inconsistency or inconsistency in arrogance, which is shown in a blatant manner even to the public, the idea of withdrawing such a stupid law is rejected. That's what I'd say and call it. Then I have to use that one, that one or that one. Says a pair of gardens that the burgion won't, the euro garden that the burgion won't do, so when the euro breaks and a hint is put on, only a sign of a ban on access to funds very quickly this government will show its usual inconsistency and this law will withdraw or change it in terms of what is actually signed in connection with the European arrest warrant. And just one more sentence if you can, Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] 15 days ago in the debate in the European Parliament it was June 18th that a German Europarliamentary welcomed, there were words about the 2014 budget, he welcomed Croatia's entry into the EU and said it was like calling someone to the guests then you have to give him a table and a meal that he will eat to secure the funds for Croatia in the 2014 budget. This was responded by an English conservative, European conservative and reformer, and here he said Let him who comes to lunch bring himself a meal. [[Intruder Reiner: You are now a minute and a 10.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45348	Thank you. We have three replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45349	Thank you. Dear fellow MP, we always listen in that section when we talk about Slavonia, Osijek-Baranja County as it is... Great fear that continental Croatia will withdraw all resources and that there will be nothing left for you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time right after that, you are talking about how and I congratulate you, indeed, that your county has withdrawn a lot of funds from the EU fund. I am still stressing that no one has ever withdrawn all the funds so that anyone who succeeds with their ability, with innovation and with responsibility gets the funds, that is to say, he will get them. On the other hand, when you talk about the encouraging opportunities of the north of Croatia, these pre-accession funds have been significantly less limited to you. We could only use funds from the project of pre-accession funds with Slovenia, one part and with Hungary while you could use them and well that you used them with Hungary, with Serbia, with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you had a lot more opportunities and you took advantage of it. At the same time, what is really said and needs to be seen about the possibility of funding these funds that we should really do it and that should be done as soon as possible by a new indexation of the development of local self-government. Because it really happens that some areas, cities and municipalities get a lot more resources that shouldn't. Because let's say someone with over 5,000 GDP per capita should have 5 to 10%, 20% of their participation. Someone who has 1,000, 1300 and 1500 kuna shouldn't have... participation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I know very well that the ministry in that section is taking care of it now, and that should be done. It's the right indexation, it's the right decentralisation on us, and we're really going to use the resources we're being offered in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45350	Thank you very much. The respected representative Boro Grubisic will respond to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45351	Thank you very much. The fellow surface of Međimurje and the number of inhabitants of Međimurje and the surface of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema is incomparable, so don't even speak like you say. In addition, Požeko-Slavon County has no contact with any of the countries in our area, and Međimurje also has contact with Slovenia and Hungary. Let's just say one argument. Furthermore, when this continental region reaches an average of 75% of the EU GDP. Zagreb already has that. There may be one, two percent missing from the Varazdin County. Then it will take Slavonia and Baranja 10 years, 100 years to reach 75%. However, the funds will continue to be drained with equal opportunities for both Zagreb and Vodjinac, Caglina, Bebrine, Gundinac etc. That's the problem. So in a time where they will bounce even more quickly, and those who, in this sense, are humane and financially weaker fall even more. The differences between the development of the region of Slavonia and Baranja and those of others associated in the same continental region will be even greater. That's what this is about. Let's figure out what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45352	Thank you very much. The next replica will be a respected representative of Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45353	Mr. Vice-President, you mentioned a colleague, Grubisic, in your presentation and announcement of a change in the structure of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia announced by the ruling coalition. I would like to say immediately that this has nothing to do with our entry into the EU, nor has anyone forced us out of the EU to change something in our system, so it is only our thing that we will arrange our house. And if that were the case, I'd only give an example. Here is the Brussels city that we all know and know of our public, the centre where the headquarters of the European Commission and all institutions of other and NATO are located, etc. The city of Brussels has 17 mayors who independently perform their mayoral functions within the city itself. So when we're talking about rationalising local self-government, I'm going to say right now that I'm an opponent and I think all small municipalities have justified their existence because if they didn't exist as municipalities, as the institutions of that small community would never have come to the projects that they've come up with in the last years from the day of their draft to today. If they had stayed within the larger cities, they would have been on the margins and not realised any project that is of interest to the public, or to the inhabitants of these small municipalities. And in that sense, our structure doesn't need to be changed at all, nor should we change the structure of the county. What you're talking about is a regional structure in terms of withdrawing funds, it's quite another thing, it's an administrative structure based on European rules on withdrawing funds for areas greater than 100,000 people, etc. But it really doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Citizens need to know that no one is forcing us to change that law or change local and regional self-government. Therefore, we ourselves organize our own house, and we think that the present structure has proved to be good especially for those smallest municipalities. The second thing is to decentralise state-level funds and ensure greater revenues to small municipalities, i.e. all units of local self-government. But this government certainly won't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45354	Thank you very much. The respected representative Boro Grubisic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45355	That fellow decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation is the main problem. However, on the administrative and administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, we will continue to hold talks that the municipalities have the possibility of survival and existence, which is not, if there is a possibility of joining the municipalities, about this later. But what I was saying about further lagging behind, so Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in this system of statistical division, I say the statistical divisions of the Republic of Croatia in the two regions best speak the words of some economic Nobels, pardon economic experts from the Government, that if such a system does not bring about the improvement and approximation of this to say the lagging economic and economically lagging part of the state of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem to other regions, then a new statistical reconstruction of the Republic will be made. That means there's already a doubt in advance that it won't work. Alibi hangs on, so after 2020 we'll do a new analysis, a new parchment, and see if Slavonia and Baranja are lagging behind, Srijem, and then we'll make a new reconstruction. So for seven years, we've been letting those who are stronger go even worse go further. Whoever has it, who doesn't have it, and then after that we'll see who's weak who's not. So what is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45356	Thank you very much. The next call came the distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45357	Thank you very much, Vice President. I must say that unfortunately it is not only Slavonia and Baranja, there are many other areas in Croatia where the irregular development of the Republic of Croatia feels and has a lot of problems in functioning. There are many other municipalities and cities that have no modernized roads in the end, have a white road to the settlement, have no water supply, have no drains, have no basic elements for a man's life in the 21st century. And when we prepare these projects for the EU, then exactly where we are now doing water and drain projects, we have an interesting situation where, in the production of documentation, local self-government is disowning, of course, a communal contribution because it is in the interest of citizens, but for example, a water contribution must be paid. We now have municipalities that already have so much burden if the area is not solved by water supply that they have a large number of building permits and that in principle they can't function now. And we're talking here today, all the time you're hearing about how local self-governments are like this, like this, you need to change them, I don't know what to do with them. To change, it may be necessary to change them, but after 20 years, it would be good to do a real analysis. We have all the data, let's put all the stuff on the table, do one real analysis and see what's best for some new future of a better maybe more functional Croatia structure in local self-government. Fiscal decentralisation is in principle still, and the two words are crucial to the use of EU funds because without it we will not succeed in doing what we should, and without local self-government, much of the potential will not be exploited.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45358	Thank you very much. The respected representative Boro Grubisic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45359	That colleague Hrg, that phenomenon you spoke of about macadamic or white roads, about the lack of water, let's just look at Podgorica. Here two years ago was a catastrophic drought, tanks were driven by water, etc. So this phenomenon of lack of infrastructure is much more common in Slavonia and Baranja than in other parts. You have to admit that. In addition, I was preparing tomorrow for the Assembly of County Constitutionals, and there is still the first assembly after which the state of employment at the Employment Office will be considered where in Brod-Posavina County 1.06. reduced unemployment compared to the previous month by 10%. So from 19600 to 18,000 unemployed. It would be good news, but we know what the news is. We know that 1800 people or I'm sorry, 1600 from Brod-Posavina County are going to work at sea. And that's a reduction in unemployment. They will boast tomorrow at the assembly that the reduction of unemployment by 10% in Brod-Posavina County, which is the seasons at sea are chefs, waiters, butchers, porters and everyone else at sea. And in 1.9 we will have an increase in unemployment by 10 percent and more. That's the grief I'm talking about, but obviously neither your government nor this current government hears, let's let them hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45360	Thank you very much. He would now address on behalf of the promoter the esteemed Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU Fund Dr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45361	Here are the honourable MPs and MPs. First of all, I want to thank all the speakers for their helpful suggestions. We are always pleased when this report challenges the interest of all relevant stakeholders especially our parliamentary representatives. I hope that, as far as I can conclude, you are still pleased to say that this report is an extended report involving some additional chapters, some additional information that has not been highlighted in previous reports, such as the EU's 1.7 management system, such as a more detailed report on irregularities, such as the report on the preparation of programming documents, here I am very pleased that you all agree that these are good improvements. We will continue to seek to improve reports with additional data, however we progress further in the use of EU funds. I will stress that actually this real effect of EU funds and real content will be visible there in 2014.Maybe in the second half of 2014. when indeed this investment cycle will be caused by far greater resources available than it has been in the IPA which have indeed had to be recognised was significantly limited not only by the amount in the rules of application of intervention I think we will then be able to speak in the context of this report as one report which simultaneously spoke about one investment policy at all levels. Here I now want to apostrophe because a lot of MPs have touched the issues of local and regional level and once again inform you that this local and regional level is the main beneficiary of EU funds and that much will depend on the realisation of local projects. Although the most perceived in the public is so-called. major infrastructure projects such as projects that were approved by the European Commission two days ago, hence the project of the Poreč water supply system and Osijek worth 140m euros, which will be our first major projects financed by the Structural Funds. It is true that most of the projects are made up of small projects that are the holders of a number of units of local self-government NGOs, public institutions and, therefore, for the success of this whole story, it is of course essential that these capacities rise absolutely at all levels absolutely among all stakeholders. The central state will help as much as it can but certainly cannot allow everyone to raise these capacities to an envious level simply one large part of the job remained at that local level. When we talk about local self-government, we always point out the fact that local investment policies implemented by the mayors will determine a lot. That if we had 100 things available today to finance local projects from the local budget that we could have 400 tomorrow because these 100 should convert that participation and that potential for project realization is growing. Of course, there are differences between individual cities and municipalities, between regions and what fellow representatives, first of all, Grubisic often points out is really true and it must never be disturbed with the mind or we will interfere with it with the mind. Regional differences are huge fiscal capacity at local level are very uneven and we will apostrophe it in our public calls and you will see this when the rules on public calls come out that there will be no same funding conditions for Poreč and for municipalities in Slavonia or for municipalities in Dalmatia or any other developed or undeveloped area. That difference will, of course, be a few degrees. We now have programmes that prefer in the selection of projects, projects from local levels, but we also have schemes to increase the share of central funding from the central level regardless of how much the share of funds or ministries provides for less developed areas. Of course local participation must be, the principle is that nothing has 100% financed from the central level or from the level of European funds, there must be local participation. As regards the procedure, what is important is to stress that these procedures will be significantly simplified in relation to the pre-accession period, so starting with the language will be all in Croatian, to public procurement that will be Croatian or under the Public Procurement Act, by the deadlines. So it's really true, unfortunately, during the pre-accession period, we had a procedure where the negotiation procedure lasted very long, about a year and a half. What we have established in the procedures as part of the preparation and accreditation package and other documents are deadlines which only for illustration of the so-called so-called. tendering for grants will be at a maximum of 120 days, so 120 days maximum may pass from closing tenders until a decision on the selection of projects is taken. At the so-called so-called strategic projects or major projects will be 60 days. So we think that we're going to do a lot of this already to speed up the procedure to get the money on the ground as soon as possible with the end-users. Speaking of financing, some of the instruments that we have already established in the financing of local self-government have already been mentioned as aid. So HBOR's favourable loans are one form of assistance. It certainly doesn't matter if you can get a 3.4% or 7.8% credit. In addition, what we have planned in procedures concerns advance payments, and I think it will be very helpful for end-users. So the fact that the advance will still be, it won't be like IPA 80% but it'll be up to 30%. And unlike IPA, all future payments will relate to new amounts from EU funds. That's the one that gets the end-user, for example. One city remains in account and everything that is later invoiced will be paid additionally. So that advance remains like one supply of liquidity. And it will certainly be one, another instrument that will help end-users secure the financial structure. I just have to mention, look back at the figures, so there were references to how much Croatia gets, do we get a little bit, do we get 11.10, 9, 8. So the figures are as follows, Croatia will certainly receive 11.7 billion euros in 7 years and that is so. National location. National. In addition, Croatia can expect significant funds from the so-called the European Union's programmes centralisedly managed by the European Union and which are competitive. These are known science programs as was now FP7, in the future it will be a Horatio program where everything will depend on the capabilities and abilities of Croatian competitors. Of course, after that we know from experience from previous programmes, we count on considerable resources through this envelope and counting on it to pass over 700 million euros in 7 years. So we're talking about over 12 billion euros. I will not specifically refer to individual projects, although I know that the Peljega Bridge is always mentioned whenever we talk about EU funds. In addition to adding that to identify the possibility of funding the EU fund bridge is working intensively. Let us wait for the results of the feasibility study, i.e. pre-productivity. It's one step only in making a final decision. But the state authorities are working intensively with colleagues from the European Commission. And I believe if everything turns out to be right in the pre-productivity study and later in the feasibility study that the door for the financing of that bridge will be opened from the European funds. As far as this is concerned, there were still individual issues related to the Slovenian example, but we can do so afterwards, there is no problem, colleagues in Slovenia have major problems in their own administration, problems caused by the financial crisis that have led to delays simply because some costs have not been paid and concerning the evaluation of projects. But it is now removed so that the evaluation of these projects will be completed soon. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45362	Thank you, well-respected Deputy Minister, and your exposure has caused more replicas. The first is the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. I'm glad you pointed out that you will take care of the development of certain units of local self-government and that this will already be seen in the first competitions. And as you said you weren't going to maybe Poreč not to point out now any city that's more developed than some significantly underdeveloped municipalities, that certainly his participation will be much greater than... There is absolutely a need to take care and it is good and it is for every praise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But don't again and with such measures bring small units of local self-government into a situation that I can't participate in. So try to make this participation truly minimal or in line with their possibilities. Do not lay down rules that they will not be able to fulfill. And the other thing, when selecting a project, it's important that the selection of projects be transparent. We have had situations where some projects have been rejected, prepared and have not entered the package proposed by the central state to the European Commission. So let's make this maximum transparency, so it's not here for grandma and uncles. Not to be some projects because they come from the middle run by HDZ and partners not to be accepted. As far as the bridge is concerned, I have to say here and we've spoken to the Assembly Commission about the bridge. However, since the construction of the bridge has already started, the European Commission has said you continue building the bridge, we will finance you pre-accession roads. A transfer of the pre-accession roads that should go from Zaton Doli and the highway hub towards the bridge which includes several more viaducts and crossing over the Gulf of Stone and on the other side from Komarna to Opuzena is equal if not even slightly greater than the value of the bridge itself. So we talked to the European Commission about this possibility and the European Commission agreed to that possibility at that time. Today, after you stopped, not you, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, led by the SDP after stopping the bridge project, is now talking about the bridge. But it'll take years, you know what European rules are like. They have to call a tender, they're looking for performers, they're signing contracts, etc. That is to say, with their supervision of the means agreed upon if agreed. We hope, therefore, that this project will still come to life and will also be financed by the European Commission. Because when he doesn't already see our government building this, then at least they see those in Brussels that it is absolutely necessary to connect European territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45364	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the respected representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45365	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said here a sentence that the central state will help as much as it can. You must understand that people at the level of local self-government who should be as you yourself have said what we are saying here all the time, but most of the users of the European Union funds, that this response cannot satisfy the leaders of local self-government because we are entering something very unknown. There have been various examples, it has been said here and in neighbouring countries, it has been in Slovenia, it has been in Hungary where some cities have come to a blockade, where their phones have been unplugged in the extreme case because they have not entered the business in exactly a clear way, they did not know what and how much... And if you have a really little more concrete response to how much of the funds that the state could finance, say, in the water supply and disposal system, these are projects that are being prepared, which are as accepted, starting from the beginning, now they're at the end, we need to know that part because we have to plan our budget for a long period of years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not just me in my town, but in other environments. So we need to know in advance how much the domestic component is going to be, how much we're going to have to secure the funds. And I repeat, without fiscal decentralisation, without respecting the European Charter of Local Self-Government, by dropping funds to a local level, we will have a hard time realising projects. There will be big problems, we'll all have, I think we'll have problems as a state in using these funds, and that's why I think it's high time it's real and necessary for something in that part to be done and that this might solve the issue of funding for these projects and if it were to be decentralisation we shouldn't look for a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45366	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45367	Well, yes, the very fact that the deadlines of these negotiations are reduced, let's say 120 days or less, that's certainly positive. For programmes to be written in Croatian, as the deputy minister said, it is also certainly positive. To withdraw this year with a share of 212m euros, cca 600m euros will really be withdrawn around 400m euros and that is a positive one. Since next year, Croatia's participation has been around 600m euros. Realistically, we come to the opportunity to withdraw a billion and 700 million euros, it won't be a billion and 700, it'll be less, but certainly more than what we're going to pay. But the point is that, in parallel with that, in Croatia, we re-invest investment at a level of 4 or 5 years ago when it was almost 45 or almost 50 billion kuna. Today they're about 25 or 30 billion kunas. What am I saying? So for three years, we're going to need to withdraw these funds, how much this difference is, or how much investment has been cut over the last 3 or 4 years. There is also to be welcomed this first-degree ruling by the Zagreb Commercial Court around these Swiss, around the currency clause. The court orders banks, though the verdict is inadmissible in the first degree, to return 18 billion kuna. And there's this money that someone's going to invest...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45368	I'd like you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45369	How?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45370	I'd like you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45371	Not yet, 26 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45372	No, it's not, but it's hard to understand that the Swiss have something to do with this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45373	Well, they have connections for those who are damaged. For three years, we will need to withdraw funds from the European Union as easily as the banks have withdrawn within 5 years from our citizens. All in all, surely what we are discussing today is something that is good and what they are responsible for, I will say openly, all the governments that have prepared this terrain for Croatia to come into this position to give a lot, but that it can more and withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45374	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45375	Thank you very much. Mr. Pugliz, you are not responsible for the haranga that was gunning for the idea and for the construction of the Peljev Bridge immediately after the formation of this government. It was a pilgrimage to the kevapes in Sarajevo, our ministers and discussed the only possibility, the corridor across the nemonic territory, and that was the case. Now Europe is teaching us and correcting how to connect the European Union, but thanks to God and Croatia by the Peljesac-land bridge. Secondly, it is colloquial and somewhat vague and hazy to say that the central government and the central state will help local units as much as they can. So how much can he do? It's this time with the questionnaire, how much can it be? Is there any specifics, is there any provision on how much it will be possible to help? There isn't. And what I wanted, and I forgot to say in my resignation because there was no time, the relationship between regional development agencies and their competences, their work, their projects, etc. and the central state as it is, and we know that there have been certain misunderstandings I will not say but certain differences in thinking regarding those who will carry and work projects, although in various ministries it is employed according to page 19 of your report over or about 1,000 people. Around 1,000 people are employed in monitoring, implementing and monitoring projects of pre-accession and accession projects from the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45376	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45377	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, we're talking about technical stuff here so local self-government mostly like you said should do, it better if she pulled these funds. The local self-government has been training for years, if it hasn't gotten better, then I doubt it'll get better. Some richer areas of Croatia have Zagreb, Istria, what has no money to participate, in order to withdraw these funds should be financed through HBOR, okay, with 1% credit and a fine thing. And so the state solves the matter. What Zagreb gives Dinam 400 million should not be given to Dinam but let's give it to help these municipalities, it is 50 million euros and we have solved all problems in the province for these small municipalities where they have a participation to withdraw European funds. But what I haven't heard here from you, you are a representative of the government, which Croatia as a state expects from these funds. What Croatia will do, what it would like, what it can and what it needs to do. I expected you to say we're going to make... the means of the European bridge, we're going to build a river-Hungarian railroad and we're going to irrigate Slavonia. That's what the Croatian state will do. That's what we need, we need a lead, if you want a leader to say it. It is not publicly presented to us, but you have called everyone who dared to tell us that you, you, the ruling majority and the government, should do the Peljek Bridge to the primitives like Marelić called me in front of the children of Split Economic School of Rivers, to see how primitive they are when I river needs to build the Pelješki bridge, and he from Korčula so he says it is not necessary to work. ... And now these say maybe from the European Union if we win. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We need someone in this country to say we won't give funds to associations for a year, not one, that's one 2-3 billion, and that's what we're going to make the Peljeki Bridge and such leadership, and that's what we need today, and I haven't heard anything from you. Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much./... What you're saying is how we're going to improve that some officials in Split-Dalmatia County are doing better for it, we could hear that from anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45378	Thank you very much. This would end the debate on this report and I will conclude the debate, and of course the vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45379	The report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012 concluded the debate. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012 is hereby adopted. "years." Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that, unanimously, with 83 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45380	The next law will be - Final bill on improving entrepreneurship infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 429. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee, and you received reports at the session. I'm turning my attention now we're going to start with that law. We're going to have a break, or break from 13.30 to 15.00, and now we're going to have a debate about the law. And does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable entrepreneurship and crafts minister, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It was such an interesting debate that I got into these previous topics, so I was thinking a little bit. That's why I acted a little slower, but I'm glad I'm here and I can present to you the law we've prepared. It is about the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, a very important law in which over the past years, I would say decades in Croatia have invested a lot, which we expect a lot of. Unfortunately, I would still say it is not in the maximum potential used, and we are saying that we bring it closer to people in the business areas, support institutions, infrastructures, incubators, development agencies, everything that can help our entrepreneurs and foreign entrepreneurs to make their investments as easy as possible. Let me just try to bring you closer to what the situation today in Croatia is about entrepreneurship infrastructure. It is three hundred and 46 entrepreneurial zones covering approximately 11172 hectares, which employ 2826 entrepreneurs and employ 40, almost 47 thousand employees. In these three hundred and 46 regrettably, 196 zones are only active, i.e. 123 zones are inactive regardless of what some of them have invested and large funds, regardless of what they have donated to the country, regardless of what I would say is a non-selective approach to sharing the state-run country that has not ever resulted in investments. That's what we want to break up. So that's one big resource, a potential that needs to be managed. It's not enough that some mayor, the mayor says I'd like an area where there's a country or a state building or anything or city land, a city building to apply for money, a fence with wire and nothing to be done, and the worst of all is not to have any entrepreneurs show up. How much money we spent as Croatia in these zones in the past I said from 2004 to 2012 money now I will tell you is not a small amount of nearly 6 hundred 90 million kuna direct support. Only countries have been allocated billions and 40 million kunas, 179 real estates, means whether the land, whether the building. So, we've invested nearly 2 billion kunas, making budget money that owns and eventually employs 46,000 employees. So an average of 50,000 I'd say kuna per employee. Could it be more, could the potential be higher? I think it could be bigger. Since, of course, some of the money was invested by local self-government. And another thing, of course, that concerned me in the opposition when I was thinking about this law, that pretty often the country and the money were allocated by principle who was approaching the fire support, and who was still the one who kept the fire waiting. And on this side we want to introduce a system of transparency, we want to introduce a system that will allow everyone very clearly to know how this money is managed, in which way someone can apply that we end up with a quality register, to rank the perspectives of the zone, less perspective zone, that we can assess what it is worth investing in. And what I can say here, and there are also some mayors and mayors and mayors who wonder that now in the last year and a few days some real estates and are not donated, have not been allocated because some ministries have not given positive opinions will no more land, no more hectare of the country will be allocated unless there is no concrete interest that something will happen there. To just set up an entrepreneurship zone with a good explanation, we're a high-quality location could be something. The state won't give me any more land, and they won't give me any money. On the other hand, those who have projects will get all the support they can get. I primarily think about projects that go from the EU to the EU. So, we have been very helpful in the business zones financed in the infrastructure with EU funds, and they have been participating with our resources in what they have to participate. It's a 15% stake. We will continue to support those who have quality projects. But it means all these resources, all that potential, and especially since we have now entered the EU, I estimate that the northern part of Croatia is extremely attractive to invest competitiveness and work and the quality of people who are educated there because of transport infrastructure. And we're going to have a lot of interest, and we have to have, I'd say a structured story and a level of perspective of certain areas that we're going to invest in and how we're going to manage them. The second thing we have ignored in recent years is developmental, i.e. entrepreneurial support institutions if we have invested nearly 2 billion kuna in real estate and infrastructure in these we have invested 40 million kunas. It's about the development agency, it's about the incubators, etc. I estimate that we haven't developed enough and this law is exactly what we're going to do to give them more space. And the next incentives that will take place in the coming years will go primarily towards incubators as a kind of infrastructure that can enable entrepreneurs to start their business as easily as possible. So, here is a very clear message and local units, who has the property that you would like to put into operation in this way will be able to apply to the ministry's funds because we want to create on that side the possibility that companies that are being founded, that companies that have the most difficult period have to go through, and that part of the first two, three years when all costs are high until business starts, they need to be helped to survive and eventually end up in the stock market or closing the company. The basic issues that we are regulating by law I said are the question primarily of the concept, type and categorization of entrepreneurship zones. We want to know what areas we share the perspective of investment opportunities. Second, the register. We have a zone register at this point but we don't have a register of everything we should have, with advantages, I would say educational structure in that city, the region of staff, with which industry in that region is represented. In order for our investors to know in the beginning where they can invest best and which zone is essentially the most attractive for their investment. So we're doing a quality register, and since we've invested 2 billion kunas almost normally, it has to exist. Not by registrators, but normally designed with multiple parameters and somehow available to everyone online. The issue of preconditions, or criteria for which zones must meet in order to obtain support, means no more over the finger, and we left it last year. So we want very clear criteria that everyone knows in which way they can achieve support, how, why, for what purpose, why some zone is more perspective, may not be. It must not be in the eye of the observer but must be very clearly defined. On the other hand, the issue of designing a system of support for infrastructure equipment of entrepreneurship zones related to the degree of intensity of entrepreneurship activities. So we must also have activity within the zone if we want to support it because synergy, or the potential of the invested funds must be multipled. You can't invest in some zones, so you don't have any response, and here I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, and many of the mayors and mayors will say and disagree, but this year we've had to go into debt activation because some of them got the funding four, five years ago and they didn't do anything about it. So that's what never happened before. There was no control, there was no responsibility for the allocation, and we have to set ourselves up that way because if you get the money, it's essential that what you got it for, even if there's no entrepreneurial activity in the zone be carried out. But unfortunately we have one part I'd say unit of local self-government that didn't do it. I'll just say in the first year we found about a little less than 50 million kunas of unsolved stuff. Now it's already under 10 million kuna. So, it goes but we won't stay in front of the debtors no matter what the municipalities, cities because they didn't get the money to finance some other activities but they got the money to equip the entrepreneurial zone. It is also defined by the law on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. I said there's no more country if there's only imaginary desire and ideas, so there's got to be some serious and concrete background underneath that, a concrete investor. The state gave, I said, over a billion kunas worth of land. It just doesn't make any sense anymore. We have examples that some municipalities have been given land to build 100 acres [100 ha] of zone, and that they have had a condition to pay for re-use of land from the forest to where something could be done because there were no more forests and then people have no money. They get the country, and they don't have the money to bring it in at all, and then they ask us to bring it back to the point again, and the investor doesn't have any, but there's never been any. So, on that side, land must be made available in some order. And yet again, I said one of the most important things is the question of designing an incentive system for supporting institutions. Because we will have very many opportunities for Croatia to join the EU. The state can't do everything, the entrepreneurs can't do everything, the county and the cities can't do everything, and that's why these supporting institutions are very important to us. So development agencies that work well. I have also been told of the importance of networking and of strengthening the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and of education. All of this we want to continue to improve, and of course I said again incubators that will be one of our main engines for development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the coming years. We've allocated more incubators this year than we've singled out, I'd say in the last five years. So on that side, we'll keep going. Finally, I would like to say and I hope that you will recognise the importance of this law, I think that we have potential, I think that as far as Croatia's position is concerned we must capitalise and enter the EU, I think that we have not been able to deal with this area, we have always been able to do this in a manner that we must do this jointly, given that investors come through the agencies that are formed in the Republic through the Agency for Investments Competitiveness through HAMG Invest, means it is one joint job and basically all in order for our space, our infrastructure, our entrepreneurship to develop in the best possible way. Here's the short one. As far as the law is concerned, we will be happy to hear all the remarks, hoping there will be quality suggestions. And in the end, I ask you to support the law because it's really one area that needs to be defined and put into one system that, unfortunately, has never been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45382	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here is your presentation that has caused more replicas, so the first one is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45383	Dear Vice President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. Minister said how much money we invested in these zones, money and land, and here is the data from the reasoning of Law 687 million 936 thousand kuna. The same data from the 196 zone has functioned and has 46 thousand 935 employees and 27 are under construction. It's a total of 223 so let's divide the amount of 687 million kuna with this amount of 223 million kuna and it turns out that in those areas that are given in function around 3 million kunas from the state budget. Yeah, I wonder why the land isn't donated? Because the land is mostly according to government regulations if it was outside the construction area by '91. The state's attorney's office registered to the Republic of Croatia and I personally signed up for this replica because you said that the previous government was dividing according to the blood cells. I was in that structure of government that was state level, my zone got 3 million, so which one is. The same year he returned triple, six times as much through VAT and other revenues to the budget through opening and jobs. And this is not just a number of 46 thousand 935 employees, there is a need to look at how many business entities were built in those areas, how many construction operations to build at all were used and how much funds were recovered from income and from the business of those 46 thousand 935 employees came back into the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45384	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45385	I didn't say or mention the blood cells, I mentioned the fire that was closer to the fire, so on that side, okay. As far as this division is concerned, and what you said was that they weren't just active zones getting money. So you don't share 190, I'd be happy if it were like that but it's not. It was getting all 340 zones. So the amount is much, much smaller on average, given that we've allocated money and zones that don't have any activity at all. Now that's what we want to change. And I agree your zone is quality, you do well, at the end of last and last year you got the support of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts and we will continue to support it. But what we change will no longer be money for those who have no activity. It's not 190 good they got all the ones I listed but unfortunately in this 126 money that money was thrown into the wind at this point and it can't be in the future. Here's the only thing I wanted to mention when I was talking about us getting a little more order into the entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45386	Thank you very much. The next replica is Đura Popiča's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, a project of entrepreneurial zones that lasts for ten years is the best thing the state has ever invested and given to Croatian entrepreneurs and all in collaboration with local self-government. And it was the least risky project, no matter what you constantly do during your term of office, devastate everything that's been done. So more than 60% of the zone is fully or nearly fully active, probably if there was no economic crisis it would have been a percentage and much higher. The level of investment is much higher than what you say here. So if there were another 600 million at the disposal of the state, it should have been given because it was the best money ever invested. Forty-six thousand zone employees, unfortunately, are very quickly compensated because last year alone, more than 40,000 people lost their jobs. Unfortunately, we couldn't increase employment as much as you were able to destroy the economy and increase unemployment. One average zone invests more than 10 times and even 20 times what the state gives them. So the development of infrastructure in the St. Sunday cost more than 40 million kuna, the state gave a million kuna and no squares of land. 4.5 billion just 11 entrepreneurs make an annual profit in the corporate zone and employs over 6.5 thousand people not to name other zones. And you want it now with your mechanisms, I'd say also the manipulations of putting it under your control and under your control. How dare you say that your ministry is capable of designing a local development policy of 6 hundred mayors, mayors and mayors Where did you get that courage? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And of course it stems from complete ignorance and incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45388	Thank you very much, the Honorable Minister Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45389	Thank you very much. I have no ambition at all to meddle in municipalities, cities and counties and develop their I would say plans because for them citizens chose it. But I've been chosen by citizens, for example, to no longer give money here in one county, which out of these billions and 700 million kunas has received a total of 200 million kunas and where there are 14 active and 18 inactive zones. So that's what Croatian citizens chose me for. Don't give any more where... Yeah, she got it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45390	Please, please, let's not throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45391	Here you see that's the problem if you would, e.g. I almost know this information by heart, and when someone's been dealing with it for three years so they don't know, then that's the problem. And then he can yell out of the bench. So the problem is, the problem is what was given where it wasn't working. Croatian citizens ask me that too. So they ask me those six hundred mayors and mayors why I can't get and the one who didn't do anything gets a nonstop. And those are the answers I have to give. And I'm going to give them now. But not by doing it in my office, but by everyone. And that's why I'm passing that law. So support him. Well, it's in your best interest to see how you manage that money. If I wanted to hide something, I'd keep doing it until 2011. And I'd say next, here's another 200, but never mind these 18 don't do anything. So on that side, I'm very responsible, and that's why I'm proposing this law, not because I'd put something under my control because it's just not possible. This defines simple criteria and transparency by which this space is managed jointly with units of local self-government. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45392	Thank you very much. Next, the next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45393	Thank you very much. So here I am also expressing my satisfaction that Minister Maras will be with us a revolutionary of Croatia's economic recovery and that is indeed one fact that is hard to dispute. But it's something else that bothers me. This law goes according to emergency procedures and writes to remove major economic disturbances. So I'm interested in why you didn't line up with another HNS-led resort because yesterday the economy minister was here and he said there was no disturbance in the economy. And we're going with two readings of the Strategic Investment Act. Is this someone planted or are you not talking to each other? That's the question. Because why would a structural law like this help me find out that I have in my municipality a mixed service in initial activation that will no longer be able to develop because all areas in the county are in bad shape, i.e. Some don't activate. So I won't be able to get any more state aid, no land, because we can't reach 66% in the county or 67% of the activated resources in the economic zones. This is what I learned from this Law, so I'm interested in what kind of economic disturbances are when all the ministers and the government convince us that there are no disturbances in the economy. It's that the budget's a little weaker, but it's all under control. And therefore an emergency procedure when yesterday we discussed a much more important law for Croatian businessmen and investors and went into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45394	Thank you very much. Here's the answer, the Honorable Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45395	Because honestly, I don't see what the connection between this and the law that was yesterday is. So that's the strategic law... Wait a minute, not just a little bit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So strategic investments are investments that go over 20 million euros and why this goes into emergency procedures is a very simple reason. Because we want to make this space possible as soon as possible so that strategic investment can be invested there. So here I see by your nod that you now understand and that I am glad and that in the end, you will ultimately give support to this law. But what is important, as far as your municipality, island, or county, so look, if someone had previously taken care of how everything is going together, the entrepreneurial infrastructure in Croatia wouldn't have had a situation like this. Tell me what the point is that if we have two municipalities next to each other and one has a zone far away, they have a border a few hundred meters away. One has a totally empty zone and now we're working on a new zone for the next 500 meters, assigning land and resources. So does that make any sense? ... So explain it in the debate, but the state's position makes no sense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because then you wouldn't have 130 inactive zones. Because people just can't get an investor when they have an equipped zone right next to them. But look, I can't slave the Captain's ambitions that they have their own entrepreneurship zone. I want to make the infrastructure so it's the most efficient. Croatia has no money to throw to keep throwing them away in the way they were done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45396	Thank you very much. The next replica will then be respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I don't know if I can say that we expected it or that we were surprised. However, it is obviously irrelevant that it is not mentioned anywhere in the law, in fact the Ministry of Economy, so perhaps the Ministry of Culture should ask that, for example, when it comes to economic zones. What you're questioning is the usability of the economic zone, so I'm just going to tell you that, for example, in Međimurje County, more than 40 economic zones are operational. That recently your colleague... The economy minister was visiting, for example, in the town of Prelog, here is a colleague who will confirm it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the last investment was for 240 new jobs. So if you're chosen to answer questions about what's going on, we're just as chosen to inform you about what's going on if you don't know. What I want to remind you, what you may have forgotten, is these disorders you're talking about. It's true, there's been a disturbance, it's 46,000 lost jobs. We're going to have a budget rebalance, so we're going to be in serious trouble again, as announced by the finance minister, and we're going to be in charge again. We've been fiscalized, and we've completely lost our mind. So that's what citizens actually ask themselves every day what's going on in our country. You were talking about perspective and inspective economic areas, so I'm asking you now whether you equally consider there are perspective and inspective leaders in cities, municipalities or other levels and you need to know that then he was such an unspective SDP leader in two mandates in the town of Čakovec where unfortunately we didn't attract any investment and obviously we weren't interested in it. I wonder if in the end we might eventually foresee sanctions for those who are insufficiently perspectiveed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45398	The Minister will respond to this replica. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45399	Thank you very much, Mrs. Glavak. I'm not deciding again on the prospects of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. ... I'm sorry, can I? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not deciding on the prospects of mayors, mayors and mayors. In the town of Čakovec, citizens decided on the perspective of HDZ and candidates for mayor, i.e. Mayor Čakovec. A SDP candidate was elected there, so I believe they had no problem with the continuity of SDP management in the town of Čakovec. And as far as I'm concerned, the Međimurje County is one of the better counties regarding the ratio of active and inactive laws, there is not 40 but 30 zones... The ones that are formed are 30, 17 of them have activity within their zone, 13 of them are gone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there's a lot of counties that have a negative ratio, so they have a lot more inactive zones than they have active ones. I could point out certain counties here right now but I don't want to do a commercial for the mayors right now, but there are really good ones who do it in some way that coordinate with both their development agencies and with the mayors, the mayors within their county. So I'm not estimating anything here and I'm only setting the criteria and I want to put order into that area because you're all going to admit that a billion and 700 and something million kuna is not small. So the state gave it in 8 years so that on that side such money and such support when we give the criteria is... Mr. Shuker, they need to know. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45400	Thank you very much. I would pray we don't talk without getting the word, and now the word will be received for the replica by the distinguished representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I've been intrigued by the two sentences you said. The first is we have to have activity inside the zone if they want us to support her and the second one, they're looking for the country, they get her, and then they don't have the money to bring her in. They're at odds with each other. But regardless, in Article 5, you said what kind of infrastructure the zone should have, and in no word did you say how to solve the period's infrastructure. First of all, I mean the last socialist or one of the last socialist companies of HEP. I don't know if you're aware of the problems we face with the leaders of loved ones, dear and many times mentioned in this home, with infrastructure. You bring electricity, build electricity and trafostations within the zone you have to give it to HEP and you still have to pay VAT on the built. I don't know if you're familiar with it or not. And how much good this law will give us is both Article 22 and 23, and in my view, the one who has more will have more, and the one who has nothing, of course, will have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45402	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45403	I agree with you in part that, but these are the same problems that we need to solve, that there should be more hearing in HEP for investment and I am convinced that some things will change. Unfortunately, I've witnessed some illogical things over the past few years, and I've been dealing with it on the ground. You have a zone where for unexplainable reasons HEP builds a trafostation, and it's years before 2012 and presents it to the city, or zone, and in some city that city has to do this the way you said to pay for it and build it yourself. So I'd like to get into that mystery of why it could have happened somewhere, and somewhere it wasn't and who was estimating it and what strategic interest it was. And I am convinced that HEP will no longer work that way, so there are no criteria that are unclear and untransparent again. For example, if I don't speak now, it means one of the best zones, and when I was asked and eventually they got support, in Croatia it's a zone... in Sibenik with a great perspective. So the exact same area is 50 km away, slightly larger, slightly slower, or slightly smaller, slightly slower, somewhat slower, the area next to Sinj. So that's where the trafo station was not built as it was built in Sibenik and now citizens are always wondering why it could have been in Sibenik, and it couldn't have been in Sinj. So these answers are those that should be interested in citizens, but I don't think this has anything to do with this law, it has to do with the transparency of HEP's work and what they're doing, and with the infrastructure to the zone itself we can't deal with this law, but we will deal with other acts that the government is doing and through more efficient management of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45404	Thank you very much. Now will the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. So we move on to the debate and the first one will take part in it on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45405	Nothing, my regards to the Minister, greetings to the Vice President, gentlemen MPs all the best. Here, the truth is, yesterday someone said just before all day we were almost discussing the Strategic Investments Act where the government in order to encourage investment shortens those decision-making deadlines to 15 days, say. But also a government where without a public tender, without competing for no public competition, it can freely distribute to forests, forest land, agricultural land, public roads, etc. And it all seems to boost investment, to make money, to hire domestic operatives, etc. etc. And yes, there is no money and there is a need to boost the economy. I used to say that investments over the last few years have been 20 billion kunas less than before the crisis. In three years, it means to withdraw all the EU funds available to us, so within three years, we will not compensate for the loss we have in one year alone, based on, say, reduced economic activities in terms of investment. When we talk about this law, this is about the law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Entrepreneurial infrastructure is considered to mean entrepreneurship zones and are considered to be support. It would also be good if we could talk about this little entrepreneurship in general and talk simply about all the problems that people who deal with this job encounter. I have the impression that the big one, which doesn't mean it's always bad, we're kind of going out, but the little ones are letting themselves be dominated by their fate. It's on the market, it's left to all the whims of bureaucracy sometimes even bureaucratic wills. About three, four days ago, I was talking to, say, a dozen small entrepreneurs who had been trying to build a circular current in Pula to ruin this season. Their brother's incomes are 50% lower and nobody's got anything. They don't know who to turn to, they don't know who to sue, whether to sue Croatian roads, the city of Pula. And the problem is that they're not simply respected deadlines. The rotor was to be built on 15.5. and 1.6. and 1.7. Supposedly, some of the legs have begun to pave the way for today. So what now? Half of them will be finished. Obligations are coming in, and they can either close their stores or the state will shut them down. As far as the law that we are discussing today is concerned, I personally think that he praises a valuable attempt to help entrepreneurs who operate through business or business zones. But clearly there is a question of what is wrong with those who have turns in separate places. So, out of those zones. In some part of town, it doesn't matter here in Ilica or Tesla where there's more and more closed shops. What about those who do business in their family homes, who work in malls or elsewhere? They're not zones. The law does not speak of these individuals. Just before we heard that in entrepreneurship zones 2870 entrepreneurs work, that in these areas we have 46935 employees and that governments from 2004 to 2012 co-financed the construction of a zone with some 687 million kuna. And that is certainly what is good, which is praiseworthy. Why did I quote yesterday's Strategic Project Act? So first of all, because of certain benefits that new investors will receive, which will invest 20 million kunas or more in areas of state care, islands, etc. Or who will invest... One million kunas, with co-financing from the EU or those that will invest 150 million kunas, can therefore be counted under quotes on a reduced procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here on the other hand, I will quote, it is said literally that "in order to attract potential investors of the local and regional (regional) self-government unit, I can provide some additional benefits within the entrepreneurship zone such as the favourable land price, rural land payouts, high-energy leases, rural payment of public connections costs in full or in part the release of the payment of municipal contributions and communal fees, reliefs in the payment of company taxes and other support under the State aid Act, and in the area of the unit's jurisdiction of local and regional self-government and regional self-government. I would like the gentlemen of Pula to in some way concentrate on this law under allegations of state aid in the area of the jurisdiction of the local unit in brackets of the regional self-government. We're all also based on new investments, and we're forgetting and it's not a bad idea. But we forget that we do not live on those who will invest tomorrow but at this point, my God, we live on existing companies that have already invested for which there is not always enough hearing. We do not live on those who will come tomorrow. God forbid they come by today and God forbid they invest today. Perhaps since we enter the EU, I want to believe that we will benefit from it all, that we will attract some and that entrepreneurial capital, but we must preserve, we must save what we have just now. I mean existing companies, whether they're small, medium, whether they're big. Finally, wages in the public sector, pensions, the welfare, which I know the costs of the state, loans are not guaranteed by those who will come, should be drawn to them once more I will say, but they all provide or live in some way by existing companies and we really have to hold them as little water in the palm of our hand. That's the point. They need help so they can stay. And so far, they are mostly helped so that if they are in debt to the state within the time limit they are immediately blocked and cannot simply work until their obligations are settled which is understandable because they need to be financed by the state. But when it comes to the little one, I dare say that they pulled out the last lip they had, the last euro, the last dollar, the last Swiss, pulled out that last reserve, and I'm afraid before us if these people lose that one under the quotes of the "big cleaning" of the Croatian economy. Will a new one come now that we're part of Europe? I don't know, I believe they will, but I do know that the most vital thing that started in entrepreneurship 20 years ago is that these people are now 55 or 60 years old, some year and over, and their time is slowly running out with them and the companies they've created. God forbid I'm wrong. On page 2, I will also quote: "in parallel with the construction of a system of entrepreneurial zones in the Republic of Croatia in the context of the construction of the total entrepreneurship infrastructure, it was given special attention to the construction of a system of entrepreneurial support institutions in order to create a quality user-oriented entrepreneurship environment in the Republic of Croatia", which said "in the period 2004-2012, the responsible Ministry of entrepreneurship co-financed a total of 40.3 million kuna for the cost of projects of entrepreneurial support institutions made up of development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators and these technological parks." It might be good to see how many people do some administrative work for these agencies, entrepreneurship centres and incubators, even though I think we need them. As regards specific articles, Article 5(1) states that entrepreneurship infrastructure requires, i.e. to be equipped, literally a quote, energy infrastructure, electricity, public lighting, gas, gas substation, public network connections and/or built trafostations, and other power connections with municipal infrastructure, water supply, water supply, water supply, offshore installations, sewerage and disposal by transport infrastructure, etc., etc. The state, it is certain, must transfer its resources to express myself so, must give units of local self-government. That's what they do, but clearly then local self-government with these means they have to invest in zones, they have to equip them, they don't think sometimes when they get a country to trade that land and they spend money on parties, parties and so on. It is clear that these contracts as provided for in this Article 24 may be terminated. I agree, Croatia needs to be radically decentralised, as much fiscal capacity as possible transferred to local self-government and especially when it comes to the availability of real estate. And why am I saying that? Among other things, because I come from a Buzet who in the '80s had perhaps the first industrial zone in Croatia in the mayor Pinet's term has done a lot of things. Unfortunately, in the last 8 years everything has been on our mind, we are thinking about selling land instead of bringing those on that land, even if it's not equipped zones, they're going to invest something. When we talk about Article 19(1), the support system for entrepreneurship zones consists of three types of support, infrastructure support, support for strengthening competitiveness and support for strengthening entrepreneurship. Article 27 is also essential, in a way, the support system for entrepreneurship support institutions makes up 4 types of support for the preparation of the project, for capacity building, for raising the quality of services and strengthening entrepreneurship. I personally believe that when it comes to these zones this law is good, that bad practice in some way if it was necessary to change. However, when it comes to this law, it is only one segment of our entrepreneurship. What is certain is the point of trying to save those existing entrepreneurs mostly those small ones of which the dominant Croatia lives and work clearly to attract new investments or to enable these existing ones to invest tomorrow that as soon as possible in the country with these 30 billion investments in a year we return to 50 billion kuna. Because no money from the EU or any third source can simply compensate for this drop in economic intensity or investment in the Republic of Croatia. But regardless of everything in these two days, twice here we are talking about the economy, that's what I mean by praise and by not being able to make a distinction between the small and the big, between the present and the future. And I repeat, for that little investment of 200 or 250 thousand kuna, it's just as big as for some big guy who's getting ready on an island or a space of special public concern to invest, I'm talking to you, 20 million kuna. Gods cannot be done on a small scale to pass through both the sieves and the solution of bureaucratic all these actions, and the great ones to be favored. However, as the law is conceived, at least that's how I experience it is something that needs to be welcomed and changed if it was what I would say bad business practices when it comes to entrepreneurship zones, which may be the best thing that's happened to us in the past 10 years when it comes to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45406	Thank you very much. Now we'd stop because we've got a few replicas and we'll continue with them after three hours. Thank you very much. Here's an esteemed colleague and colleagues, even though we're in a reduced number and we're back to work. And now we have replicas of the presentation of the esteemed representative Damir Cain, who spoke on behalf of the Representatives' Club. And the first came to the line from the respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go. ... He's giving up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The second one came through, the respected representative, Đuro Popioč, and he's giving up. So here we have no replica and we're going to go to the next speaker. And that will be on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here's a shame that we're going in with such important topics of course the afternoon term is obviously a constant pain in the work of this House, but here, it's a good thing the minister came back to hear a little bit of what we have to say about this, about this law. Thus, we have before us a Law that we truly and with our best will cannot determine what it is for. In so far, I think that this law is definitely a favorite in the design and invention of the reasons why a bureaucratic body should exist. This Law will serve students and students as an example of how the administration is able to produce its own reasons for its existence and to abuse the position of legislators of the Law, which, unfortunately, will be voted on by the party regime. In the absence of any idea how to justify the meaning of the existence of a failure and, apparently, according to the economic indicators of the unnecessary ministry, it is written in a law that tries to list everything that has been done over the past years in the area of improving the economic environment. So the minister remembered that what has been working for years, what units of self-government have been developing and building for years what differed them at the end in the regular census and in the manner of a real bureaucrat in the register. But for which reason and what new values have not been brought to life so far in the work and development agencies and incubators and entrepreneurship centres and technology... And so on and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reason is simple and we also saw it in the Law on crafts, so putting under... control the entire system and prevent local authorities from self-thinking and directing the economic development of their environments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yet the promoter has given us a truly unique opportunity in assessing the situation to see what has happened in recent years. So here's a valuable list of what's been done in the development of entrepreneurial zones. So it's already been said, although in a very negative context, so we have 346 activated, or entrepreneurial zones that are, if there's no register, I don't know where that data came from, and that fact came out. 11 thousand 192 acres, here's very precise, there's probably some data without that famous register. And the fact that he's working 47,000 employees. So almost as many as in the past year and a half people have lost their jobs in the economy. Not that only 687 million plus the natural value of land is invested in these economic zones, I think it's in the economic zone with the construction of infrastructure, if you have any idea how much it costs to build infrastructure, we seem to be able to talk about at least 10 billion kuna. And that in itself is already a sign of how good, quality and successful this project is developing entrepreneurial zones and was. It's in itself. Someone in those zones was doing something, only in infrastructure, not to mention thousands of objects that were built in those areas. And even of course some of them and for various reasons aren't even running, which doesn't mean they won't, which doesn't mean they need to be blocked, which doesn't mean they should be discriminated against. As it has been practice so far, the law is passed by emergency procedure, of course, to make a difference, and you see we have entered the European Union and no longer has PZ, but the Ministry has remembered that it could use the business opportunity of the Parliament and that here is requesting an emergency procedure, probably for the very reason that someone who is accidentally and possibly as it is said... this law understood what was happening. We don't know if this law was in any kind of debate, especially in local self-government units, it doesn't say anywhere. The Ministry states that the reasons are in the need of removing major economic disturbances. Imagine, the numbering of zones and supporting institutions will remove the disturbance in the economy. Dear gentlemen, you've caused enough economic disturbances in the last year and a half. GDP decline more than 2% in 2012, continued decline in 2013, growth in unemployment, decline in investment. The latest data were tragic compared to the 2012 decline in industrial production in the 5th month 5.3%, decline in consumption, decline in wages. And what else is needed in order for you to understand what kind of disturbance you've caused with your policy of growing legal uncertainty, tax press, increasing business costs, losing trust and unbelief already mentioned in this House today, but of course by laws such as this law. The Chapter of the General Provisions refers to the entrepreneurship infrastructure as the applicant sees it, so it is said that, in a narrow sense, entrepreneurship infrastructure is actually what has been built so far, and the definitions express exactly what is derived from the meaning, purpose and reason why these institutions have been developed so far all these years. Of course, the entrepreneurship infrastructure is much wider than what this law prescribes or lists, that what you have systematically improved and ruined over the last year. There are also problems with the consistency of certain articles in this humble law. So here's Article 2. defines what entrepreneurship infrastructure is in a narrow sense as they say, it's entrepreneurship zones and supporting entrepreneurship institutions. Therefore, Article 2(2) of entrepreneurship infrastructure, in the narrow sense of this law, constitutes a system of entrepreneurship zones, i.e. entrepreneurship support institutions within the Republic of Croatia. Article 5 is then said in paragraph 1, so it further lists what are entrepreneurship zones and what are supporting institutions. These are development agencies, local development centres, incubators, entrepreneurial accelerators, etc., and then in Article 5, the entrepreneurship infrastructure implies, i.e. to be equipped with energy infrastructure, and the electricity is spoken, and I don't know if that's the correct term, which electricity, what, maybe electricity, public lighting, gas etc. municipal infrastructure, water supply, fecal, precipitation, technology, connections to the public network, etc. So I don't know if the proposer here was actually referring to entrepreneurship zones, but he writes entrepreneurship infrastructure. This means that even entrepreneurship accelerators must have, for example, municipal infrastructure, water supply, fecal, oborinal, technological, public network connections, gas, gas installations and what is not listed here. And what if there's no gas in that location and if it's thought that some entrepreneurial accelerator is, say, if it doesn't have a connection to, I don't know what they're saying here that it's actually not. That's what we're talking about, of course, about the absurdity of everything that's written here where the motionary tried to describe something, and it basically writes nonsense. But, of course, the question can be asked, probably also the promoter does not know that what is called entrepreneurship zones in various units of local self-government are called industrial zones, business centres, business zones, economic zones and most of them are both legal persons, i.e. companies. It is interesting in Article 5, therefore, that these are entrepreneurship zones of particular economic interest, and then it is interesting that entrepreneurship zones of particular economic interest can be proposed by the ministries responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts, for science and higher education, for regional development and European Union funds. Imagine, it is not assumed that the Ministry of Economy could possibly suggest some kind of zone of particular economic interest or perhaps the Ministry of Tourism, and it might not want to be bad but associate a little with coalition division. The economy ministry is run by a coalition partner who is not the one who proposes this. The tourism ministry, too, but this is the exclusive of those who, of course, make up a certain circle of people from one part of the coalition. Imagine the Ministry of Economy has nothing to do with this law, so at least it's trying to suggest this law. Furthermore, the law in the right manner and the practice of bureaucracy moves to naturally classify entrepreneurship zones. Obviously from this classification there is, above it is some intention of further treatment by the ministry, and already, if necessary, political likeness and obedience. Now that we've sorted you out, we'll write you down. We'll put you in registers and punish you from 10 to 100,000 kuna if you don't report something in that unique register that you're designing in your ministry. From 10 to 100,000 kuna? So did anyone in the judiciary see that law? From 10 to 100,000 kuna if you don't deliver some data. Of course, the law wouldn't have been the law if you hadn't entered the criminal provisions. Penalties must be made, even if it's as ridiculous as it says here. But, of course, the main reason for all of this, this was just the artillery preparation of this law. The main reasons are still apparent. Therefore, in Article 22, where criteria are spoken not of, but that something will eventually be taken into account when support is to be shared, when land is to be shared, when it will actually be manipulated, managed and centrally tried to manipulate from one place and from one centre to the development opportunities of local self-government units, which is Article 22. Therefore, that support will be shared in accordance with the activation of the available area of the entrepreneurial zone. So those who are at the beginning, so those who don't have entrepreneurial activity won't get anything, and those who have the opportunity to manipulate them too. So let's say some entrepreneurial zone is expanding, the most successful entrepreneurial zone. Today on St. Sunday may be... But I won't abuse it, the man's here, so let him say, he'll probably say, there's 120 ha almost full or completely full of parcels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, those zones are full. Now the entrepreneurial zone is expanding to 300 ha. And given that, so it's probably going to be less than 66% of the total coverage of that zone in St. Sunday. But if all entrepreneurship zones in Zagreb County are still considered, what does the entrepreneurship zone have to do with, say, St. Sunday compared to Ivanic City or Križ, which is empty? And empty is probably the reason why. It is necessary to find an economic operator or investor who will want to enter Croatia under these circumstances. So these are actually completely contradictory wrong and harmful provisions that are pushed through this law that we are not talking further and about the criteria that are actually trying to impose here on the country's state-owned donations. Time's running out. There will be opportunities and later say what would be necessary for this law. So, a completely unnecessary and harmful law, a law which is the purpose of itself, i.e. a law that should, as I said at the beginning, probably justify the meaning and existence of this administrative body which here thinks that the large ministry but in fact everything that has been done so far in the field of general economic status but also in the field of crafts and medium-sized enterprises is just confirming it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45409	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45410	Thank you very much. Comrade Popiè, you have well noticed that this law brings absolutely nothing but mere administration or red tape from which no one will have anything in particular to worry about, and these are small mid-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen who do not receive anything with such a law unless I have read this article well about punishment they could get in the pocket of some 10 to 100,000 kunas if they are not them or I do not know someone else zealous and delivered information to us to find out what we have in the zones. At the beginning of his presentation, the minister said that until now it was not good, nothing was good until he caught small and medium enterprises, and then managed to establish precisely for this law that the entire 687 million kuna had been invested in the development of these zones, that one large almost 50% of them were in operation, that land was being obtained there by a state that did not know what estimates came up with a billion kunas of additional investment by the state in those areas with very precise data, where exactly the number of employees in these areas and areas in hectares and accurate investments, and we find that we have no registers or that we have failed to pick up anything from these zones. And then we needed a law like this where, here I am, in my small population of 1200, I can't even assess it through this many criteria right now so I can call it. Because it can also be micro, it can also be logistics distribution, and maybe even service-mixed because these are the criteria written here, so maybe it's in initial activation. Because it's hard to put these percentages exactly what they say here. And, of course, if we're not all jealous in the county, there's no future zone, because there's still one dozen acres and a dozen acres to work on. But since another zone, let's say in Matulja municipality it doesn't work at all, and there's a SDP in power there, it could be the cause that even this one in Bakr Kukuljanovo could no longer get some part of the state country because we can't meet this criterion of 66% achieved.../The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45411	Thank you very much. The Đuro Popiach, the respected representative, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45412	Yeah, well, you've noticed that, pal. So, in a keen desire to write something but, of course, in a keen desire to put under any price control everything that happens to local self-government has simply become entangled in the law. The question is whether and how expensive all of this is and how it will end up being applied and what it all means. However, a number of manipulations, deceptions, and inventions are one of the greatest that is repeatedly repeated, which is that no one should have justified what was obtained from the state. That's a notorious lie! I also began to get messages from people who look at it, serious mayors in which serious entrepreneurship zones were organised and said such a complete lie was what was mentioned so that every kuna that had so far paid off had to be justified. You couldn't spend the money without adding the coster and where it was spent. So, when this is said, at least a little bit should know what was going on before, it should be appreciated, respected and respected by all the valuable people who have fought for their own entrepreneurship zones and for all those who carry out their economic activities, hire people, pay salaries and pay for such an inefficient administration of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45413	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've told your friend Poppie that it's impossible for local authorities to think about their own development, isn't it? Here's a confirmation of this is Article 24(3), which says that the land donation is owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction of a new business zone is justified only in the case that, within a radius of 20 km from the location envisaged for the construction of a new business zone, there are no entrepreneurship zones. This translates into the Municipality of Stankovci we have an entrepreneurial zone that is so good and so I can't have an entrepreneurial zone with me because it's less than 20 km away. That's one thing. Secondly, you were talking about building infrastructure. I'm going back to the famous electricity and the famous HEP. What does it look like in practice? You have a fishing cooperative called Omega 3, hunting 25% of all quantities of blue fish caught on the Adriatic. And the blue fish represents 80% of the total catches of fish. And only in Zadar County is 50% of the total fish caught. A plant worth 40 million kunas is built, 12 million kunas have received grants through the SAPARD and we find, that is, problems because the electricity of 1 megawatt is needed. So they paid a million and 600 thousand kunas of reckoning power and that doesn't mean anything to HEP. So I have to take the loan to get the power even though the drive was built. Here, that's how we build entrepreneurship in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45415	Thank you very much. The Đuro Popiach, the esteemed representative, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45416	I think you're right. Not that it seems to me but you are completely, now the minister of one ministry will indeed deal deeply with the formation of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Because of course that structure and functioning depend deeply on a functioning and dysfunctional economy. So if you no longer have the opportunity to create a prerequisite for attracting an investor into your local unit than it will determine whether it should be in Stankovci or with you then you are doomed to abolish your city, your local self-government. What do you need more? If that's why you really exist, and why it's good for you to live there to work, design and, of course, fight that others, perhaps even better and better quality measures, encourage businessmen to come to Benkovac, and not elsewhere not to say. Or, say, the situation in Lika-Senj County. Well, what does the islander have to do with Pag, for instance? So are you really doing it regardless of course it's a regional unit, you're going to be adding squares to entrepreneurial areas in the island or there? So come on, please! So it's this chaos that along with some relatively arranged system out of it is doing a circus. And as for, of course, once again, the rough manipulation that the minister performs with trafostations, so in Sibenik, in the business zone of the trafo station is built, among other things, not only for this entrepreneurial zone, but probably for supply and other consumers, as well as for consumers connected to highways. The ministers should know that if you don't know anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45417	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected Vice-President of the Parliament of Mr Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45418	Thank you very much, Vice President. You've told your colleague, Poppie, in your presentation, that this law is unnecessary and that it's even worse. I'll comment that it's too late. Namely, you probably remember you were the Minister of Economy of your time in whose jurisdiction these areas were and I, as mayor of your mandate, cannot boast perhaps as some others that you followed my zone and many others in the Varazdin County except for them. However, what was extremely important in 2001 to 2003 at the time, the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labour and Social Care, I think was also called the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, launched an initiative to do so and then started. Criticism to the then government for not making such a law. The criticism of your governments that you didn't settle it in this way and would not have had 190 and several inactive zones now, would not only be state money but also taxpayers' money, meaning local budgets invested in vain and would not have happened a year before the last parliamentary elections that in the neighbouring municipality that is about 6km away from my business zone which by the way full got the municipality 3 million kuna literally for the icy, or had project documentation, nor had property relations solved, and then, in the last year, invented projects for sewage that began from nowhere and ended nowhere. And the day today the money hasn't been spent I don't know how fair it is, probably the minister will be able to say something about it, standing for the last two years as it is. So that law is essential only that the problem has not been passed long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45419	Thank you very much. The Đuro Popiach, the esteemed representative, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45420	I do not agree with you that every detail of life and work should be regulated by law and that in a way that absolutely invalidates the role of local and regional self-government and absolute power and government centralises in one body was it the ministry. But today we've heard that new agencies are being set up, and it seems to me that DUUDI or DUDI and CERRP seem to me to be two bodies from Audi, one for large assets and one for small assets. I don't know what you're talking about now, what part of the property you're going to be in is going to go into jurisdiction, and how this law with these powers is now going to be coupled with the powers of the DUDI and the other third, I haven't read yet, so I can't have a long name now. But listen to Varazdin and Varazdin County there are also organized... one of the best business zones and free zones. And I don't think it's a very good example. And I agree if there was, I say I don't know, and we can talk about all the reasons why someone failed to launch or manage to bring quality investors into their area especially after 2008, when we have a significant reduction in both investment activity and economic activity and a major crisis in Europe and in the world in general which does not mean that they won't, after all. So when you go to the store, you expect the goods on the shelf, so when the investor comes, he expects it to have infrastructure even on the ice. If we don't build that infrastructure then no one will come, they'll come where there is or in an existing entrepreneurship zone big and that small unit in there is the problem, maybe even he needs it, but he doesn't need it like this. Some small unit will never get a chance to build its own entrepreneurship infrastructure because you detimize it, penalize it and destroy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45421	Thank you very much. The next call came the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45422	The Honorable Chairman. Here's a replica of Mr. Poppie since he said this is unnecessary, bad law and he'll be voted on by the party key. I suppose after this debate and Mr. Minister who is now on the phone and the parliamentary deputies who listen to us are going to try very hard to fix this law. in order to be much better, and I am convinced that it would be much better and allow all those environments that have more economic areas to solve property relations and faster launch of authorisation outcomes and land to function when these two amendments that I have just given in our experience of starting and working in the industrial zone are adopted. These two amendments apply to land. One changes only in one word, and according to the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, it is changed in terms instead of the word area, the words building land is placed as part of the construction area. Another amendment that is very important because in yesterday's law and today's law it is constantly mentioned in some economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Here in this law it must literally be said that there are zones in the Republic of Croatia which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. I know what I'm talking about, I know how long it takes to solve property relations, and I know how long it takes to solve the whole deal. And another suggestion about this is everything you said and about that percentage. Those areas of those 223 that have developed which work full capacity and which go to 46 thousand 935 employees, but in these areas those who are considering are heading for an increase in surface area. According to these criteria that are here in law, these surfaces enter that formula of calculation and will not have the right to help by the state since they have already met 66%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45423	Thank you very much. Next to the replica, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow drinker thanked the dear God, so someone remembered after a year and a half that there are 346 entrepreneurial zones in Croatia that there are approximately two hundredths of them active and about 20.30 to prepare them. And then he remembered that he should administer it so that it should be done differently and look at how serious some law is, I'm always looking at it. It's probably a professional deformation that needs the means to implement this law. There are no additional funds in this law. So they mention the funds that were secured in the budget, the budget was passed about eight months ago when no one was even talking about this law, as it was known that something like this would happen. But it's very interesting that when 70 million dollars per year were invested in the economic zone at the time, it wasn't good, and now, let's say, in 2013, 51 million are scheduled and that's great. But what bothers me in this law is that we definitely think that Mark's square is better seen than anywhere in any square or street of some local self-government units especially in areas of special state concern. I, too, workmates and colleagues, and especially to you, my fellow Drinker, who I call the question that there was a law like this, do you really think that we would have a Longfield today, that St. Sunday looked like it, that the ODVI zone, which Mr. Minister also said something like an example, would have looked like this. Would Klaric Kukuljanovo look like it wouldn't look safe. Because too many administrations and not allowing units of local self-government to create their own development is simply not good. It must not be allowed for everyone to do anything, but I see no reason to give units of local self-government land, because this land eventually remains in the Republic of Croatia, no one has stolen it. But apparently the results of the local elections have offered to take away few of the rights they have from the ruling coalition by powerful mayors and mayors and mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45425	Thank you very much. The answer of the Đura Popiè's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45426	I think you finally scored on the real reason. So it's not an accident, probably, that this law is now and by emergency procedure, of course I'm not talking about the reasons it pushes. Given the fact that the most successful zones are right in places and cities, let it be also said where HDZ mayors, mayors, etc. have been in power for a long time. So, it probably hurts, it bothers you, so you should in every way and disable what your colleague said earlier that it would eventually not happen to expand the entrepreneurial zone in Kukuljanov to 400 hectares. Because here, this gives a quality mechanism just to prevent it. And now, of course, about this manipulation that there was a lot of money, so there were certain guarantees, there were also debtors, and of course there's a responsibility, if that's how those who might have done it and the bodies who might have been able to investigate it, and not that they're generally talking about people doing some sort of unauthorized thing with that money. But now, here in Article 25, every unit of local self-government will tell me, in one statement, I will not again, or I swear, or I swear that I will do everything I promised and do, and this is called a statement guaranteeing investment in the construction and equipment of an entrepreneurial zone with specific sources of funding and investments in question. Here's where it came from, so all those guarantees and obligations and bases that could have responded to those who eventually had no respect for legality, will now be resolved by one statement. And probably here's a promise from the Minister that everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45427	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Drinker on your opening statement on behalf of the club could be replicated a lot. However, I will remain in that part of your exposure, in that context when you spoke about the filling or default zone. So in this context you mentioned Ivanić City. And in doing so, of course, negatively, referring to the default zone. However, I do know that it is well known to you that Ivanić City has several zones and you have clearly targeted the 6th zone for which we have received 400 thousand kuna with your signature, of course it was a decoration then in Zagreb County, it had to be one of the SDP's cities, so I am grateful for it today. And here's the zone waiting for now and the first investor, the works will start because these basic infrastructure works are finally finished. But you're my witness, too, and you were part of that government when we three, four years failed to achieve consent, an ordinary consent to credit debt regardless of our good credit rating. So much, but I'll keep it right with you since I also reported a hearing. So I'm going to talk a little bit more about the selectivity of the support... And I don't know if, as Minister of Economy, you've asked yourself, by not getting that credit agreement and not building up in that period and that zone, how much we lost the investor. ... I don't know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45429	Thank you very much. And will be answered by the Honorable Representative, Đuro the Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45430	I didn't mean, of course, anything negative in any negative context when I was, in general, talking about the example of how this treats this law, the construction, the filling of the zone in a particular area of regional self-government. So then I mentioned watch St. Sundays and Ivanic City are in the same county, regional self-government, I wanted to add all that up when it will be. Well, here's your six zones. Well, you'll be the first to have a problem with this law, because you probably won't get the money by this formula. I don't know who came up with this mathematically complex piece, after all. But maybe you, too, here you are, getting ready, you have a chance to have the debate itself to try to calculate your fullness with all your zones, your mathematics, and that here's the Honorable Minister, one day you'll really hear it then if by the criteria you say equally here but you no longer have the right to my money. They're not his money, of course, and they're taxpayers. And in that context, I wanted to set an example. Here, not only Ivanić City, there is Zelina, there is Gorica, there is Zabok and many others at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45431	Thank you very much. Now, the word has been given by the Honorable Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45432	So you see the taste of the problem is precisely in this last replica Mr. Drinker said. He says it's money. When someone says it's money, it's assumed they're paying in a coffee shop to get their money out of their wallet. So that's when you refer to the definition of taxpayers' money, and then normally things work the way they've worked so far, up to a year ago. Give this one, don't give this one an obvious approach. I'm telling you here responsiblely, out of a billion and 700 million kunas of 346 zone 150 is not active, that's 40%, so figure out how many billions and 700 million kunas are 40% of it and how much money and land and real estate is basically thrown into the wind or someone that can be omitted by a badge that it's made something poopy, and it's done nothing. Mr Batinić said well how things worked. Says Mr. Drinker says they were in charge. Look, for some, they weren't in charge. There's still some cities in 2006, and I'm not going to mention it now because it's not in my best interest, which didn't even have any debts. Come on, then we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, we're on the road, it's all spent on this, it's spent on what, so there was no order. And that's why you say it's unnecessary law and that someone wants to control something. No one defends the local self-government unit itself, the municipality, the city and the county to invest themselves, here we only regulate a transparent approach regarding the money allocated by the state or the country assigned by the state. Now you've asked about DOUDI, the State Property Office. The State Property Office will probably have that when the law comes to the Assembly you will discuss, a commission that will decide on the allocation of certain assets to a certain amount, but on previously obtained opinions, for example when it comes to entrepreneurship zones, will be asked for the opinion of this Ministry. Why, so as to analyze whether, for example, we should talk about Zadar County now having 20 zones, of them 7 active, 13 inactive and whether another one should be within 50 km. What are you supposed to do with it? Which is why, which is why the state here, if the local self-government unit wants to invest some investments, but which is why the state would still have to give its country or its money to help set up another 20 zone... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45433	Please, let's not throw it away, let the minister speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45434	As I would say, responsibility to a little property management wouldn't hurt, and that's why we're passing this law. And as the funds were allotted, the best tells you the following information. Where do you think the most likely were the mayors, the mayors, where the most money is and where the most I would say invested in entrepreneurship infrastructure. Which county is it, is it perhaps one of the most developed counties in Croatia. It's the Osijek-Baranja County. Of these 600 million kunas, nearly 60 million kunas were invested in it, and of 32 zones 18 were inactive. ... And now Mr. Boric, one according to this data would say unspective counties because there is no one there to invest and no one wants to invest, the Primorje-Gorski County is in the famous 18th place with 22 million kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's where we estimate it, it's probably at the transparency level of large analysis from the cabinets of economy ministers in HDZ governments that 2.5 times more investment needs to be made in Osijek-Baranja County. Well, of course it would be if you'd get there... [[Intruder: Of course.]] If anything had happened there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'd give you a round of applause, and probably the whole assembly, Mr. Drinker, if your investments gave you some results. Well, that's what we'd like the most, that's what it's all about, not that you're giving away where someone's going to get tired of something, and that's not what it's about. Let's take a look at what you've invested in, and then there won't be any groundless law, because no one here is defending anyone to set up a zone to attract investors. Here we only regulate the way we're going to step up I'd say the area in which it's stage, how it's built, and how we're going to make a transparent investment in money and assign the country. There's only that story, and you try to explain how that money was invested, for example, I'm sorry I said that county now, there are more, but I don't want to pick it up now because then everyone will feel like here exactly, this county was number one. Just explain to me why you decided it was right there to invest when no investment happened, almost none compared to your colleague from Bakar where 2.5 times less was invested in the county, and much more investment was made. Then what is this logic of investment? So it's not going to be on that side of it anymore, I'm proud of it, so it's not over the finger, it's not over the finger. And as far as your grades are concerned, that laws are being made to justify the existence of the Ministry, I understand that you don't understand because you didn't understand it even when you were a minister. So you understand... If you understood then you would understand that, say, one small economy agency exists for guarantees and that we now issue five times more guarantees than you issued when you were chairman of the board of directors. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And state guarantees, yes, but whose guarantees should be issued. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Whose should we... If you understood the importance of the Ministry then you would realize that only for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs last year we singled out 6 billion kuna loans via HBOR, which is, by the way, the total amount that was allocated in 2011, means in 2012 only for little and medium everything the HBOR did in 2011. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you understood and understood the needs of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs then, for example, you would raise the VAT system to 230 000 kuna and thus help small entrepreneurs. ... I don't know, I don't know, Mr. Shucker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45435	Let's not pollemize that way, I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45436	I'm just saying who passed those laws. If you understood anything about it then you would realize that when you look at the comparison of the number of employees in the small and medium economy, you saw that 6 and a half thousand more employees, despite the loss of jobs throughout the year, were in the small and medium economy compared to 2012/2011. If you understood anything then you would see that exports grew in a small economy 11%. So, I'd like you to do it for future debates if in some way you don't embarrass yourself when you say that you point to information that justifies the existence of a ministry that will deal with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Because your ministry didn't deal with them and that's the problem we are, I said very pleased that we managed to solve it. As for the misunderstanding of what the Government, such as the Government, coalition partners, etc. Look, the government functions as a common body. And when comparing the provisions of this law and establishing entrepreneurship zones of particular economic interest, then you should look at the next item that defines that it is related to the Strategic Investments Act. Thus, there is very close cooperation between the Ministry of Enterprise and the economy because otherwise there is no point in establishing a business zone of economic interest if there is no strategic investment. It's very nice to write it in law. But you need to read it a little bit more, and then you'll get to it. So, I'm sorry I had to leave after my opening part. This debate is very important to me. I came back because I wanted to explain things to you, but I can see that the effort doesn't yield results. But okay, I'll keep trying. There I shared 11 support for innovative companies in Croatia, all of them know which during your term were hardly able to achieve the right to support because such tenders were not available. 11 companies like... like a Roman car, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it was and it's my job and I'm working on it as much as I can and I can see that it results in what I just told you. And don't underestimate a billion and 700 million if you don't need to regulate certain regulations to see the efficiency of what we've spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45437	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we have one long line of replicas, so let's start from the first. She's the first one to represent Đura Popièa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45438	I don't have as much time as a respected minister who can take a few more minutes after each replica. And I don't really know what to do, what to touch first. It's not a billion-and-a-half, but I said that it's probably just building infrastructure over 10 billion kunas in the entrepreneurial zone, and it's just building infrastructure. So, you're having a bad time with that math. You're trying to represent these billions and a half in such a way that the state threw it away, that it's unnecessary, that it's trash, regardless of what 46,000 people are employed and thanks to it, and how much you're going to be able to hire for your term, you're doing well. That's exactly how many jobs have been lost in the past year and a half. You're doing really well, and you really have something to go out with in front of this House and say you're successful. I want you to be more successful than I am, but for three terms, you will not succeed, unfortunately, because everything you do is going in the opposite direction. Everything you do is harmful to the Croatian economy, Croatian society and you see it every day. GDP down 2% this year, last year. Do you need more? We daily record a new number of jobs lost in industry, in the real sector. It's a little compensated now but unfortunately it's very modest with seasonal employment. The real truth is your policy will come to you obviously in front of you in the fall. But since you're having a hard time understanding and looking at only the natural frameworks in which you're operating you'll hardly be worried about anything since together you're, of course, as the entire government is convinced you're doing well. Unfortunately, everything that we inherit today from your work, everything that citizens do today, how they live, what accounts they pay, how much left over for their lives are directly the result of your great success.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45439	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45440	Thank you very much. Smile has said enough. People reacted spontaneously, Mr. Drinker. He says you won't make it in three terms. Look, I remember a meeting at the HUP where at the Employers' Association, where we were discussing a certain current economic situation that you were one of the leaders for a time when people were reacting in a similar way with a smile and your colleagues yesterday. So let go of the grades, you have people who are convinced and talk about themselves best. I don't want to, but since you think you've done a lot, let that belief stand still. Unfortunately, we can see what the economic results have been for your last two years of mandate, so it's gonna take a lot to fix that. As far as employment is concerned, and as regards everything I said earlier, I will be happy to give you analyses of both the Chamber of Commerce and certain other professional bodies to see that in the small economy 6000 people were employed more last year than a year before. So the causes of the decline in employment in Croatia are exclusively restructuring of large companies and I would say public sector that will also come on the agenda, not because of what I would have said SDP was carrying out some irrational policy, but because 30, 40 thousand people were employed in 8 years. That way everyone just doesn't know how much we can pay for it. So the restructuring of the entire economy and the public sector and private businesses leads to the loss of current jobs and we are trying to compensate in some way. When you look at the start of the mandate and look at it for a year and a half, it means... after the restructuring and the crisis, that fall isn't as dramatic as you wanted it to be at the beginning. And after this season and the beginning of next year, you'll see that things are going to get better, and there's going to be a much better thing that you've ever been able to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45441	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45442	Minister said the prime minister, your boss, that in 10 years, we'll only be better, but not well next year, that's what he said recently. I'm interested in your calculations, you say a billion 700 is that so 40% is not active so it's a damage of 680 million kuna. It is an ordinary manipulation that aims to undermine the efforts of local self-government. Logics say that something that was not within the scope of spatial plans planned as nothing outside the building area outside the zone, outside of tourist land, owned by the state. Do you know what market value it is for you? Nothing. It's no harm if the zones were created by spatial planning, if the local self-governments got the land of the state just raised the value of that land, that nothing was done to damage it. If someone wrongly invested you have a debt and you pay back the money. The state has no damage and these are simple manipulations. My municipality, we've usually got a hill that had a few crushes and nothing more, if it's worth millions of kunas because it's 2, 3 acres of land owned by the state, and before that it's been municipal in the former municipalities and you're now returning and saying it's a shame or it needs to be disabled. It is a direct blow to local self-government and to all their efforts to at least try to find areas where entrepreneurs can do something. It's a misunderstanding. And instead of standing at the head of those who are now protesting, which are craftsmen also for the sake of the fiscal registers in the markets you're dealing with red tape, administration of nonsense. It's the only true truth and people expect it from you, but you've retired.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45443	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45444	When we talk about the value of the country and the country's assignment, then we should know that according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, every country donated to the local unit must be assessed by an authorised judicial expert. You can't say something's worth zero. So if the court expert says it's worth something, don't have any laws and they need to be followed and that's why it's estimated how much this particular country is worth. And that some have been very undertaking in the assignment of a state-owned country under the firm that will be an entrepreneurial zone, and then everything has been done and lasted, let's say certain things are under way, telling you, let's say the Sibinj Municipality. Ask around your former colleague I think the gentleman's name was Shočkovic no, it was also a donated state country to the Sininj Municipality. Well, then look at it, and let's say it was assigned by the government to the last HDZ municipality, so you see what happened to that country a little bit, no. So and then they came to do the competent authorities' investigation not. So that's what this is about. So that's what the country was like at the time. What? ... I tell you why it is not good to do what was done and why it should be evaluated and why certain rules should be laid down, and which is why it is not unemployed. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] But whoever wants to go to the cabinet says you can, you can't. He'd be doing what he was supposed to be doing. I wouldn't. And if you, Mr. Boric, think that your county has earned 2.5 times less money than some where there is no investment at all, well, that's your right, but then make it clear and loud in your county and not here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45445	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So I believe it is not wise that in defending this law when you address MPs most often of the opposition parties to say they don't understand anything, that they didn't get it right, that if they could read differently what you wanted to do with this law, then I will give you one thing, even though I am giving you another chance to speak to us and reply to the replica. It's not exactly that we don't understand anything, it's not exactly the fact that we haven't read anything, and when you're already calling for a professional approach, then I'm going to tell you what you've proposed to us at all is not the law, except the fact that it's a shame that you're pushing this paper into an emergency procedure, and there's no but no rules of procedure for any particular reason. These are your instructions for use, this is not the law. And since we don't know anything, it might be that you consult legal experts, so that you can see that 70% of the text of this law is an explanation of some of the nebulous concepts and formulas that you're trying to regulate something that you didn't regulate, but you've further complicated the whole process. If the idea was to introduce a register and make a difference in the availability of state property, and always with the aim of being the one to make decisions, then you could have said it in an explanation. And what you're suggesting when we don't understand anything, then I'm going to tell you that you don't understand anything at all, what you've proposed has no form of law, but guidance for use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45447	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45448	I allow you to have such an opinion, it's your right. ... Okay, I'm looking at it so it's a level of communication. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45449	I ask you all nicely to be parliamentary in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45450	So from one former minister to hear and shut us up. If you're nervous, just take it easy. ... So on that side, you have the right to your own opinion and you can talk about the laws that this government suggests are like this. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Otherwise, they passed the co-ordination of all ministries and the ministries where you were minister. People there are the same ones who worked when you were a minister and they also gave an opinion on this law and such an opinion as you, the kind of grades you give, nobody gave. If that doesn't suit you, or if you think that the introduction of order doesn't make any sense, no, but I would beg you, since I was a parliamentary representative, although there were a lot of illogical things in the laws that you proposed and even unimplementable when it came to elections, you probably also didn't want to accept certain things that were suggested by the opposition MPs. Try to understand that here the intensity is not something inconclusive, but the intensity is merely the introduction of order. And if we want to put order into something, if we want it to be transparent, I don't see why you as a lawyer oppose it. If you want non-transparent work okay, then you don't need this law [[You're talking about transparency.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45451	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, as far as I understand the basic reason for the law's passing is the muttering of this kind of people's land that the local sheriffs got from the state. If we have 346 entrepreneurial zones in the Republic of Croatia, do you know how many such sheriffs have acted against the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45453	Thank you very much. Here's the answer, the Honorable Minister Maras. Let me give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45454	This was more like a current clock and a question than a replica. But be careful, the replica... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45455	Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45456	No, I'd just like a little quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45457	First of all, I'd like to ask nicely that we don't talk from the scene, that the minister doesn't answer to those who earn, or that they don't. I'd like to ask you nicely! Let the minister say his things, we'll say ours, everyone will say theirs who has to say. Therefore, I ask that we communicate in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45458	Here, I'd like to ask Mr. Box to ask me the question next time in my current class, I'll be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45459	Thank you very much. Now the replica is being reported by the distinguished representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All of what you said, Mr. Minister, would be very much discussed, and that just confirms what they are and what my colleagues said that you don't really understand what you're talking about as well as the government where you're the minister and the results you've achieved over the past year and a half best show how much they understand the problems in Croatia. Just look at the macroeconomic indicators and you'll get it all figured out. Don't take it out more on what was 2, 3, 5 or 10 years ago. If you're talking about funds withdrawn from the state budget for various projects including small economy areas, every kuna has to be justified. And that was the rule. There have been cases of manipulation with these means. Okay, manipulation has always been and will be. That is why the rule of law is there and let it resolve such matters, and not because of this, deny the possibility and right of units of local self-government to enter into different projects, which is practically what this law does. When you talk about Osijek-Baranja County, then you must know that it's like you said the county with the largest number of entrepreneurial zones and that you have very successful examples of entrepreneurial zones you don't know about. From one Valpo that I come from where there are 4, 5 entrepreneurial zones and where new plants and new employees are now being opened in these most difficult times. It is not the merit of this government, it is the merit of the people who are leading local politics and who, with the help of the state, built those zones and created assumptions for more serious economic development. So don't talk about things you don't have too much knowledge about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45461	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45462	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivić, this is all you've said I'd like you to speak in the morning so that people can hear you the best they can. Because the more you say that this government will look better because it's amazing that as a government minister who lost over 10% of GDP, who lost over 150 thousand jobs, which Croatia has failed to get out of recession for 5 years, which denied the recession, which has put us in charge of over 60 billion kuna in those 5 years, that you're talking about this government having these or such results. I would ask you, I would even leave you with my time and the pay phone to talk more about it because it speaks more about how different this government is than what it was before us. ... And as for the results so look, in Osijek people have accepted certain I would say the proposals of this government and have received certain results. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know how the HDZ went in Osijek and what you suggested there. I don't think there was any other circle, no. But, well, that doesn't matter, that's what citizens say only in the election and evaluate how someone went. ... And I'll stick to the subject, and the theme is that there are a lot of good projects in Osijek-Baranja County, but it's also a theme that out of these billions and 700 million kunas over 200 million kunas with land invested in that county and unfortunately 18 zones are not activated at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's 14, it's not 18. And our intensity is again not to defend someone, but when the state gives the country, when the state gives funds not to give where there is already something, that the Republic of Croatia is equally regionally developing and that the money is evenly distributed, not that it is always given to a place where there is something and where there is something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45463	Thank you very much. The next call came the distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said one sentence about how much money was thrown into the wind by equipping all those zones. Well, I can't agree with you for a few reasons. First of all, I don't think that money was thrown into the wind at all, but that he had multiple functions. In fact, at a time when the equipment of the zone was provided, it was not only the state budget funds that were the same funds for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia wherever they lived. There were also funds of local self-government, there were also funds of certain pre-accession European funds, so there were many more sources, there were domestic capacities employed in construction operations, people were working and in this way they needed to watch and return some of that money back to the state budget by paying VAT. It's a fact state, so we can't really talk about the money being thrown away. And now to blame the local self-government that local self-governments are incompetent, so I can't bring investors into these new zones right now is a little crazy. So whoever manages the state creates conditions for an entrepreneurial climate or creates conditions for an anti-enterprise climate. I've got three zones in my town, one part co-financed by the state, one well-funded and it was tied to the construction of a fast road or highway, and when the story and the hack around that road started, there was no longer any interest in the area. But the moment the infrastructure reaches it, and we see that it is here in Article 2 it says that it is a very important transport connection we will be ready to receive investors, and until then you create an air conditioning so that investors would like to come to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45465	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45466	Well, then, Mr. Horg, we agree. So my intensity is just that now that there's no such prerequisites, you don't invest in a zone where there's no road to the zone. Is that an acceptable idea, or is it just a matter of infrastructure, and then just a road? So that's what this is about. You have one zone that works in the Križevci, the other has no road to it and I say you don't have to invest that way in those zones. It's the only thing this law says is to rationalize the funds. Normally, the funds invested and returned to the state budget are the meaning of investment and investment. So just rationalization and... criteria. I don't see why anyone would be against that law, except anyone who wants to decide in their office where 5 will, where 2, where a million will, and that no one alive knows by any criteria, by any key, but by the key who approaches the fire, that warms up, who goes on to that is a little more winter. But that key is gone, that's what we left 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45467	Thank you very much. The next call came the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said in your presentation of 223 active business zones and 123 of those without business activity. You've come across one or two negative examples and you're talking about what's not fair and it's not politically wise. But you need to know that you from the government at Mark's Square can't control everything, you have to build a trust system. Why so many mistrusts with the mayors, the mayors and the mayors? Well, Mr. Box told you to make public what sheriffs are in these municipalities and cities that have so much land. Besides, there are sanctions and shortfalls for them, violations and convictions. And one more thing, why you share Croatia, why you call municipalities, cities and counties because it is not good. That selective justice of yours is, in fact, the greatest injustice for both citizens and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45469	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the respected representative of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you said that the government is making decisions as a collective body, that there are no more things to decide in cabinets, that it invests there in which to withdraw the economy. It seems to me from the proposed laws that follow that you do not speak at all at the government because at the same time when you talk about how to encourage crafts and the economy, at the same time we are going with amendments to the Law on Electronic Media which will take some of the funds to local and radiotelevision stations and give them so-called. Whatever this means to the non-profit media without any criteria, any rules, that any such non-profit media has an obligation in terms of the production of any content, that they have an obligation to hire anyone and to account for anyone. And it will all be determined in the cabinet of one ministry. The amount spent in that way to say throws into the wind is equal to the amount you Mr. Ministers have in the budget foreseen for traditional trades. I think it's about six million kunas if I'm not mistaken, correct me. And the same amount while you're here telling us that as a government, as a joint collective body, you're taking great steps to encourage something at the same time you're throwing money aside just to make some portals positive about someone's writing. I see nothing good in that variant, because I have said more than once in this House only in the craft sector about 3.7% of the EU's GDP culture sector. The Creative Europe programme and in the next EU budget period, the only programme that has an increase in the projected funds. The projected funds are 1.7 billion euros in the first projection, and to all of this we as a government, as a collective body, are not held together, but we only give funds to those who will give us on their portals, which are so-called. non-profit praises.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45471	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45472	My colleague Mesic, we are discussing the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. ... So unlike my colleague, Mlakar, since I'm not familiar enough with this subject, I'm not going to answer to you, and I'd like to refer you to the Ministry of Culture. [[/Intruder Mesic, you can't hear.]] Because when he talks, he talks equally confidently about the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. I admit I'm not familiar with these details, so I won't replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45473	I'm asking you nicely, it's not right to talk like that and I'm asking you to avoid it. The next one came to the line, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As far as I know, spatial plans are something with which these units of local self-government are practically planning their development and their citizens' standards in the long term, and also what I know is that the consolidated balance sheet of the state is a state budget, outside budget users and counting on 30 major units of local self-government. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason to simply see that in this statistical part and the unbreakable link between the units of local self-government and the state. And colleague Maras, what you or Mr. Minister are, however you wish, is what you have stated here as regards financial resources that you have looked at the Budget Law a little bit better then you would see that all of this is regulated between articles 53 and 63. And you, as the head of one budget user, have exactly those obligations that you had to carry out with the Ministry of Finance, must have been carried out by those who received the funds. And I don't think that this debate that you're potentialing in this House is simply good given the situation in which Croatia is more of a skillful manipulator, you're actually trying to skillfully manipulate some data. And to say that no one did anything, etc. It's just something that doesn't work for you anymore. You've been in power for a year and a half, the situation is what it is. He can say whatever he wants, but I'm just warning you the Budget Law article between 53rd and 63rd, so you'll see what are the obligations of those who got the money from the budget. Therefore, all of your provisions cannot apply in the same way as you cannot be subject to the provision of Article 24(6), because when it was discussed on the State Property Management Strategy, then Mr Pejnovic and former Deputy Prime Minister Mimica said that the state will no longer give land to anyone. Therefore, give yourself a little synchronization. And the other thing, it would be great if all the bad experiences from the past and another thing didn't get in the way until 2008 and after 2008, when the economic crisis is that you used all the bad and good experiences and you put it into some kind of document that would just take a step forward. Unfortunately, you didn't do it, you came to argue at the Parliament, and the obvious evidence that you have no arguments. And here's the fight, you won't get away with it. You can talk as much as you want, and that leaves the best picture for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45475	Thank you very much. Minister Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45476	I'm not here to fight, I'm here to defend the law. So the idea of this law is very clear, and as far as the property itself is concerned, that's not true. The state will continue to give its assets for certain projects that will be of quality and you will see in the law that will soon follow first in the government because now I think next week in the government, and then I believe that it will be immediately presented in the Assembly where the property is said to continue to be allocated to local self-government units. I don't know where you got that. And that's exactly why we need to have certain criteria to know who, what, how to give. And as for me, I'd say transparency, so I think it's much better for people to be aware of the rules of the game and that the rules of the game know through the law. ... The rules of the game are the Budget Act. [[You can't hear it.]] For example, the Budget Law states that I spend 50 million kunas a year, for example, on entrepreneurship infrastructure. But I don't suppose it's your interest or anyone that the clear criteria don't know how to manage that money. And why it would not be very clear, under clear rules, to develop that infrastructure. I don't see what the problem is. So we actually want to give transparency and significance to that, and you object. And all right, when you come to power, you will re-negotiate this law. It's all right. And it will be again as it was before. 40% of the money through the window for nothing. It's all right, but it won't go so fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45477	Thank you very much. The next thing you know, the honourable representative Tomislav Klaric, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45478	Here I really have to admit that I'm not used to this kind of discussion, we, you, them because all the time I've been doing my work I've been thinking about how to make a project, a task, make project documentation, get licenses, introduce works and then cut the tape and say, "That's what we've built." And that's why Mr. Minister mentioned it in his discussion because I said this was an embedded economic interest of the Republic of Croatia in yesterday's Strategic Investments Act. They are indeed the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about economic infrastructure, entrepreneurship infrastructure. For this very reason, I respect the fact that most will pass this law, accept and think carefully about this amendment that I have given you. Let it be an amendment to the Government or one of you supports it because this amendment puts entrepreneurship zones in the special interest of the Republic of Croatia is speeding up the process of solving property-legislative relations within the scope of urban plans, economic, business, industrial areas, but whatever we call them and enables faster implementation of projects, and then also other investments. This is who I am who I really am a little bit too much to listen to. I just want to talk about how something is going to be realized, and I want to do it right. This does not have to be an amendment to some Tomislav Klaric or Janko, Mark, Pere if most think so should be an amendment or government or anyone, but for God's sake, think about how you will deal with the mayor of SDP, HNS, HDZ or who I don't know to allow with your professional services faster to solve property-legislative relations within the scope of urban business zone plans, to move faster into realisation, and to allow the investor to start investing his project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45479	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45480	Thank you very much. I've read yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45481	Allow me ministers to finally give you my word. So don't interrupt me every time. Here you go, Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45482	I wanted to save some time. Thank you very much. As for your amendment... Mr. Shuker, please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, don't. Who Mr. Shucker about about politeness doesn't. [[I beg you, too, Mr. Maras, to treat the chairman with courtesy.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45483	Please! The word has been given by the Honorable Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45484	Who's Mr. Shucker talking about? Can I, Mr. Vice President? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45485	I ask you nicely to give your word to the Honorable Minister of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45486	Thank you very much. [[Intruder: You may be ashamed!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45487	Please don't throw yourself away. ... I'm asking you nicely. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45488	All right, Mr. Shucker, take it easy, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45489	Mr. Minister, I'm still running this session, so please, I'm asking you all to calm down and let the minister say what he wants and what's on the subject. Here you go, Mr. Minister, for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I read your amendment and it goes into another administrative area, means construction and we can't regulate it by this law. On the other hand, local self-government units of the county itself have their own spatial plans defined. We can define the area, but we can't go in there alone to be the right one, but we can make it possible to define which area is the entrepreneurial zone, and then the local self-government units can do the same. I agree that it would be better if it were, but I don't see why they would only limit themselves to the area where the construction zone is already. So on that side, we can't even define it by this law, but it's other laws, about spatial planning and the Construction Act. So we can't put it in this law, and on that side, I'd very much like to accept, I don't have any fence on you as a proposing, but it's simply not a place in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45491	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on with the discussion, so on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Dragutin Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45492	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. If we spent that much energy in bringing investors and investors, believe me, in one day, we'd fill at least one economic zone. In order to justify the adoption of this law, the applicant states that the reasons and circumstances set out in the assessment of the existing part of the economy regulated by this law are sufficient to approach its adoption. The first reason is so far a large number of co-financed entrepreneurship zones, a lack of systematic access to their construction and co-financing in the whole country. It is certainly necessary to add to the economic justification for the construction and co-financing itself, according to the assessment of the ministry of too many entrepreneurial zones throughout the country and also in relation to our budgetary opportunities. Another reason is the creation of a high-quality and profitable entrepreneurial environment within the framework of the construction of a system of entrepreneurial support institutions consisting of development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, entrepreneurial incubators and technology parks. When speaking about this bill, it should be pointed out that it defines the area by size, according to the type of activity within the zone and by the intensity of activation of the available area itself. This third definition is particularly interesting. According to the 2004-2012 data, and according to what we have heard so far and all of my predecessors quoted it as being co-financed close to 350 entrepreneurial zones, and that this data is the unit of local self-government that affects the area somewhere around 11,000 hectares, that it actively employs nearly 3000 entrepreneurs and employs about 47,000 employees. But what's also interesting is that 196 zones are active, 27 in the phase of documentation and what's most interesting 123 zones still don't have entrepreneurial activities. Also, we've heard more than once that the total value of co-financing is close to 700 million kuna, and 1.5 times the value of the land allocated. It is precisely this last piece of information that should be promoted more carefully because in many cases almost nothing means that a community has just opened the zone. As with all business activities, it should be borne in mind that the zone is a product for which customers should be found, whether it is investors or investors who find their interest in infrastructure transactions. The quality of the product will certainly be affected by the benefits in the business zone, in the local community, in the county and in the state. It is precisely because of this connection that it is important not to leave the construction of a business zone... because every weak link in that chain will have consequences for economic development as a whole. When we talk about concrete figures and help the state, we have to say that this aid has been all these years. It is also a positive example that, for this purpose, certain funds are created in this year through the program Entrepreneurial Impulse Action C. It is also only by co-financing units of local and regional self-government for the construction of entrepreneurship zones that create conditions for the construction of specific economic areas of gathering and action of entrepreneurs that contribute to the employment of local labour and entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs within all Croatian counties. Business zones should be seen not only as infrastructure but also as a development project, especially in the function of a more even development of all parts of the country. In fact, the experience of economically successful countries has long shown that investment in the small economy and entrepreneurship is not a cost but an investment in development. It has also proved that there is no single recipe for building a system, but every state, i.e. local self-government, accepting the knowledge achieved and experience built up its own optimal system of support institutions for small economies and entrepreneurship. In the HNS club, we believe that this bill is a step in that direction and therefore we will support it. The established single register of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions as an electronic database will be the source of data in them. In particular, interesting data will be on the level of incentives compared to the number of newly employed, total employees at the size of the zone, the number of entrepreneurs and other indicators of the economic efficiency of the zone. We'll actually see how the Ministry will now and in the future, how it invests and how it manages the resources of taxpayers. It is certain that this Law on the Promotion of Infrastructure Entrepreneurs, as said by the Resort Minister, will introduce order into the financing of entrepreneurship zones and close the tap for all support in those areas that do not actually work, and as we have heard in Croatia a lot. The minister also stresses that we need more strategies and synergies, which is important because entrepreneurship zones in the future, especially with Croatia's entry into the EU, will be attractive for investment and are expected to absorb part of the EU funds. We will also significantly strengthen the role and budgets of support institutions to facilitate business in entrepreneurship areas, and support will be given to those who actually work. I'll end up with a practical question, otherwise I personally participated in the realisation and construction of more zones as head of a local self-government unit in which he works on 30 or 40 business entities, in which more than 2500 employees are employed, and here I have an appointment with a potential investor today. This is about Articles 23 and 24 and that distance of 20 km. The entrepreneur wants to build with us, for this request we need to expand the area with which I have to tell the state land that one part was obtained for this existing zone, but within 20 km there are free areas in other areas in other units of local self-government. We have a dense population, a small area of the local self-government unit. At the length of one side 20 km is 4-5, on the other side 4-5, again 4 and 5 and back 4 and 5, and he wants to build and invest in our unit that does not have an adequate or so large space at that time but could provide it with an expansion of the zone. Perhaps the solution is paragraph 5 of Article 24 of that law, I don't know. That would be the end of my exposure. Once again, let me say that we will support this bill's proposal, and as for the amendments I have read to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, I personally think that it should be incorporated into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45493	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I don't know why this law today has caused so many bile polemics, discards and everything else when it's just plain, so I'd say catalogue or register of categorization of entrepreneurial infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. So, one inventory of what exists. It's those 346 entrepreneurial zones. These are these supportive corporate institutions and that's it. Therefore, the list, categorisation according to Articles 7, 8 and 9 are inactive entrepreneurial zones, areas in initial activation, medium active zone, fully active zone. So then after that, zones dealing with manufacturing and processing, where there is production-processing activity, logistics-distribution zones and service-mixed zones or micro zones in Article 7 micro zones, small zones, medium zones and large zones, etc. And I think it is necessary, after all, that there is even one edition, one book in this country, and also because of foreign investors, those who may come into one of the zones depending on their needs, whether they are in a traffic position or in a zone, or in activities they are dealing with, and that's not bad. After all, I don't really see any reason not to. That's why I'm saying it and I don't get it. I'm telling you, there's so much bile in this debate. But what I wanted to talk about when it comes to entrepreneurship zones, then it is said here that these are infrastructure and development projects. They shall be developed if, according to Article 7, the zone is, therefore, developed, if it exists, pardoned in accordance with Article 9. if it is fully active. If she's not fully active, she's not even developmental. And what will you develop? Capital ambrosia. Here's the Lower Andrians of mine in the Ship-Posavina County, the entrepreneurial zone that was created by the state and was there and the minister was then responsible and the Prime Minister was even the one from Remetinca when it was given, donated to the municipality of Lower Andrijavci, and this is the instruction that this entrepreneurial zone was donated, and in the local newspaper it was written in square meters, not in hectares, in order to increase the importance of the corporate zone, i.e. that gift, and then it was written 170 thousand square meters or 17 ha. Because if it's 10,000 square meters a hectare when it's multiplying, then I guess that's it. Now the second zone in Brod-Posavina County has been donated. It's an entrepreneurial zone in Sibinj that we know is finished and that the actors who were around that entrepreneurial zone ended up in prison. And that's what's in our country. I guess there's gonna be something in this catalog about it, too, I have no idea. But there are also such entrepreneurship zones that the judiciary today has to deal with, unfortunately. So it's not all about what someone said here if it's an entrepreneurial zone in the municipality where the chief of HDZ is then it's being assisted. If he was someone else, she wasn't helped. Here in the community of Sibinj was exactly the situation. So, an identical government in the municipality and in the state, so here's a judicial one, to say judicial epilogues about that entrepreneurial zone. In Brod-Posavia County there are 18 zones of which there are three, and Mr Maras will agree, Minister, because we have already had one here, let's not have a duel, but one exchange of views regarding the zone in Novi Gradišca which is excellently resuscitated and which is in full activity or almost in full activity that really needs to be supported regardless of the political map of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who is mayor and who is there in the city council. So out of these 18 entrepreneurial zones in the county that has 26 municipalities and 2 cities, therefore 15 are those that fall within the initial activation zone or inactive entrepreneurship zone. Only three of them fall into a medium active or fully active zone. Now that's what's problematic and where it can actually be difficult to help any minister, any unit of local self-government. I don't know which finger to point at or at all if the entrepreneurship zone remains empty after all possible, so the establishment of all possible infrastructure operations on that entrepreneurship zone and the training of the entrepreneurship zone, up to that surface, of the greenfield, to say the possibility of working in that entrepreneurship zone. In the Republic of Croatia 346 is entrepreneurship zones, and of which 35% or 123 zones are such that there are no entrepreneurial activities in them yet. Here's what I'm talking about is that of those 123 in Brod-Posavina County is 15. That would mean more than 10%, which is a catastrophic result. And this is also shown in the fiscal capacity of other economic and economic indicators of Brod-Posavina County, which is on the turn of events, i.e. the last in the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that several entrepreneurial zones are active, medium active or fully active to make sure the Brod-Posavina County moved from the last place of the lantern it holds in the Republic of Croatia between 20 Croatian counties. Well, that's how it is. The special case is Luka Brod, an entrepreneurial zone that has about 100 hectares, so very interesting on the Sava River on the waterway, on the 10 pan-European railway corridor, on the A3, so one zone that has all the preconditions for rapid development and with a qualified and numerous unemployed workforce. There are 19,000 unemployed in the town of Slavonski Brod. And therefore, I would ask Mr. Minister this time directly to consider this business zone of Luka Brod a little bit, and if it can be considered in these aids that are listed here for this year in the amount of 50, 51 million that someone does not catch me by which kuna now in this speech, then it can be launched because indeed the city of Brod and Posavina County are or as the ship is said to be, and if the ship is before the sinking. The HDSSB Club has no objection to the establishment of registers, i.e. catalogues of entrepreneurship zones and not only entrepreneurship zones but also support institutions, so regional agencies, agency of the city of Brod, because it also exists, and it only organises the Katarian Fair on November 25th and I guess that's all its activity but I don't know who it is, the mayor, has all sorts of local schemes and various local plantings. So it's hard to talk about, but here's an attempt to edit that register or catalogue from the level of the minister and state is actually not so bad, so the HDSSB club will also support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45495	Thank you very much. Your presentation caused one replica, the esteemed representative of Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Grubisic, at least that's what he said, it's surprising why so much noise when it comes to a text that can be called a catalog or something. Of course, I don't agree with this other one, but it's a text, a good text of the new law, which I'm sorry about, too, that he didn't see the light of the day many years ago. But on the other hand, I'm still surprised by your surprise, given that by the habitat you're already one more serious gentleman who should be, or you shouldn't be surprised by this sort of thing and this noise. I think you should recognize that. I know you recognize that. In fact, today we are witnessing in our society wherever the order is to be introduced, and more than that, unfortunately. And I ask that nicely in those areas where I don't know one achievement of civilization's achievements is a norm that we all stand for it together. No, it's making noise. Let's ask ourselves why. Oh, we all know the answer to what that's about. I'll say it later in my debate and at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45497	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45498	Given your beard and mustache, I think you're a much more serious gentleman looking at me today, and since today is the 4th of July, I guess it's Fight Day, isn't it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45499	We would now move to the next exhibition, which is that of the distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this proposal of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, and indeed we believe with yesterday's proposal of the Strategic Investments Act that the Government and we here take responsibility for what is negative, i.e. to prevent negativity and to help units of local self-government in our most important joint task of local self-government and central government units in enabling new jobs, in enabling entrepreneurial activities primarily production activities. I would ask you, Mr. Schucker, you can show impatience and rudeness to us here, we will not be offended, but make sure that we are seen here by the citizens and that we represent the citizens. And that insulting and disdaining others when it is not your time to demean citizens and voters. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45501	I'd pray we stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45502	Well, let's stick to the subject, of course, that's always the subject. So here were the remarks why by emergency procedure. Under the most urgent procedure, Mr. Minister, and that's what the SDP club supports. Why to us, it's Mr. Minister intro and explained it, but I think good things should be repeated, so I'm going to point that out. What exactly are we going to do with a bill like this? There have been others here, and I agree with many who have said that there are excellent examples, not entering political combinations that have managed well in their units of local self-government, opening up business zones, and it has often not even been related to the size of the unit of local self-government. However, two examples may clearly show that this is necessary and that we cannot allow individuals, or so I would say that individuals in the units of local self-government to treat citizens in a way that they play trust, not to hire, and that is to say, the more they get state property. So two examples. Here was already mentioned the wineries of an affair in Sibinj where it was donated, where the state donated land, and according to the indictment I quote they sold nicely and at a lower price to certain persons for 16.5 million kuna, we will see what kind of justice will be. But I don't think it's even significant, because you won't be surprised that the major winemaker is a member of the HDZ, at least at the time he was. Then we have an example of the mystic zone black in the city of Zadar, since 2005 it has been announced. Then please, if you Google the entrepreneurial zone black, it's interesting. It will be over in 2007, the first entrepreneurs arrive at the end of 2007. Then in 2008, no, it will be 2009 and indeed in 2009 the state gives land and 400 hectares. A good thing and a very good price of 2 million kuna. There are high hopes, great headlines, the biggest zone, the employment of hundreds and hundreds of people, investors were invited, there was a huge response, and then in 2010, it will be 2012, 2013. Look and follow this chronology, and in 2012 it was paid to the state, or 27.10.2012, to the state of these 2 million kunas. So, does the state have a right to say that's a question, we've given, what they've had to do with it, it's not our thing. Is that how responsible the government behaves? Of course, such behavior has been so far and they have celebrated those who gave and well that they have given and have been doing so continuously since 2000, and that is good, but it has been seen that they are not acting responsibly enough. And I think that the government is acting that way, if it's responsible for something, and that's how responsible people act that they're responsible for everything, and not like we've had behavior so far, and that's why you don't need to surprise us here. Why some object to it because they are considered responsible for everything and responsible for nothing. Well, I think that's what this bill said, and people recognize it, and that's why they support it. True, that support isn't public because they don't have that power, they're not networked with different flocks. Even a man can happen who respects the law gets beat up, but this country is obliged to make such a person, that this must no longer happen and protect them. As Mr. Minister also explained that the business zone itself solves the needs of entrepreneurs for business space, it enables entrepreneurs to use their respective and prepared infrastructure together. But if the units of local, regional self-government were to decide on both the establishment and the size of the entrepreneurship zone, I think such a single synchronization and assistance, even in bringing a strategic investor, who wouldn't take it. So I think it's a common interest. However, the same seriousness and application of this law will not result unless we do something that the bill itself shows that it will also be followed from reason that it will be done, but I insist on it in particular. If someone has received this land, if they have not brought it in, if it is inadequately equipped with different combinations and abuses, it has been, if it is not insisted that, it is often called the introduction of order, however it is not only the introduction of order, it is too mild an expression for it to insist because it is the responsibility of the authorities to insist on returning such one means, to activate the delivery of payment insurance instruments. Isn't it scandalous and it's irrefutable data that justify the adoption of this law because it was seen that they were all equally unbehaving, so some of the leaders of the local self-government units, not one government, may not even need this because they are responsible, but they certainly won't mind. But the responsible authority must lay down rules that will apply to every possible personnel combination and that is what is most valuable. It's this one objectiveization that this law achieves, and also one transparent behavior. Therefore, if we have this information that the support system from 2004 to 2012 co-financed the construction of 346 entrepreneurial zones, that the total amount of funds allocated was 687 million 936 352 kuna. That the total was 11172 hectares and the average was 47%. That 2826 entrepreneurs, employed 46587 employees, active 196 entrepreneurial zones, 27 zones are in the process of activation without employees, and 123 zones are inactive because there are no entrepreneurs or entrepreneurial activities yet. And here's an entrepreneur, here's an example of Black in the city of Zadar, and the neighboring Polinik is doing no problem. A small police officer facing the great Zadar and seeking and will. Total amount of unwarranted funds from 2004 to 2010, i.e. on 20.12.2011. 44 million 694 thousand 977. It's hard to read this amount. And then we can't let it down, so let them know what it is, so it couldn't have happened if they didn't show the costers, so there's a country, a forest, so it's not worth it, who it is, that. Is this a serious debate? Is that how we demean our own territory and our own kuna? So how do we expect others to treat us if they have no regard for their own property, how will others appreciate us? I think now that we're in the EU it's more necessary than usual. So the issues that this bill will address other than this concept issue, the type of categorisation, are certainly the establishment of this register that can only help. But also the question of preconditions and criteria to be met in order to obtain support. Who's got a clean bill? It was seen that even as it was going, so I don't believe it was going with bad intentions, that it was really government, because all the governments did and helped and gave. But not everyone was at the levels of such a single trust and citizens' expectations for central government were less important than they expected. So, the consequences that will arise by passing the law are certainly what the minister pointed out to me at the SDP club, we agree systematically and transparently to define the basic issues of the arrangements of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system in the Republic of Croatia, the types and types of entrepreneurship zones, categorisation. Now there was also one problem why categorization, so who will come to us, why this country has to categorize the zones. So please, man has a room, so neither does the whole house, because one part must be left for his family. He wants to rent to survive or cover the directors, rent to tourists. His room must be categorized. So it does not diminish its meaning, that is, its ability and the breadth of its imagination to do business. So, as far as a categorization is concerned, it's only good, it only attracts. The better the categorization, of course, that the competence will be great and that it enables then and indeed to the serious investors above all those who produce and not from hollow and empty creation. Because there are too many places in Croatia to trade, where there is too little money. So I see exactly one possibility in this as well. The law also defines different types of entrepreneurship support institutions, development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, entrepreneurship incubators, technology parks more precisely. The law highlights the network, cooperation and entrepreneurship institutions and economic operators at local, regional (regional) and state level. It's also very important. So what the minister also mentioned in 2013 will continue to co-finance entrepreneurship zones based on a public call for the inclusion of local and regional (regional) self-government units. I would especially like to point out the value of Article 26, which is very important for the law, because we have a lot of good and intention in the law, a lot of good solutions, but often if we do not watch over the achievement above all things and control how something is carried out often we do not get the result we expected, or often get the opposite effects, and then it ruins additional trust in the institutions and in the power of any level. I therefore believe that it is a very important provision of Article 26 which speaks precisely, which rescheduls or foresees this possible negative experience that we have had with irresponsible behaviour because it was that in the event of the possession of the donated land, contrary to the provisions of this law or the donated land, no purpose was brought in for the construction of an entrepreneurial zone that such contracts would be terminated. But it also needs to be kept in mind that we do not expose ourselves to long-term actions, but rather that these actions be solemnized. I think that's how it's been done so far, but unfortunately that's not what happened even though there were such instruments. But the same for those who will see such behavior was, or there is serious doubt that the charge of Sibinj Black is to sell or sell such land further. In this case, it would not certainly be a more favourable price, as this is then a serious suspicion of criminal activity than would be obliged to return the market price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45503	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45504	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Anticevic, I am delighted with your exposure. It was in style, once the proletarian style of all the countries unite. I have a feeling sometimes, not just now, but usually when you're arguing, it's '45. A year to get us all killed on this side in one day. You say something then take out Zadar, that black zone, it bothers you so much because it's some state land given to the city of Zadar and they haven't done anything here but as long as you've said 10 years and more. You go to the election, you offer solutions and you lose. The people don't trust you. I'll give you an example here's the city of Rab, there's a SDP in power. We were promised both in 2007 and in 2008 and in 2009 and 2010, 2011, 2012 the works before the 2013 elections began in the 5th month, they put a bagger there and started the works. But what's the problem? They chose to compete with a performer who was 3 million more expensive than the one who was 3 million cheaper. And that doesn't concern anyone. Does the ministry co-finance that area? Here, the minister may know. There's a SDP in power. Now what? Is that an example enough to create this kind of law, we've found an example, here's nothing wrong with it, let's start over and sort it all out, everyone's been stealing something so far, mixing, going to introduce order. So let's put in order, but from all sides then. We can't just take out Zadar, why does Zadar bother? Because SDP can't win Zadar. We can't go to River, okay. There's no entrepreneurship zone at all. There are 15,000 people gone in 10 years. There'll be more to go. But we have, say, one zone of Miklavia there is again the SDP in power, there is nothing going on and on about these criteria and those who have done something will no longer be able to get anything for some failed zones. So let's go change the criteria, try to find a model that will allow those who are developed not to be addicted to those who don't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45505	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Anticevic-Marinovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45506	Well, maybe in a row. You, sir, I have been reluctantly complimented that I speak as my talk to the proletarians of all the countries unite. Although it is not caused by anything, although I am seriously thinking about it given the globalisation of capital that it will be one inevitability. So, I think you do, too. That's one thing. And the other thing, it doesn't matter, I wasn't saying what a political combination is somewhere, but I pointed out that there's a lot of it, and here's the Zadar Poličnik there is HDZ in the power of a great business zone, and it doesn't matter whether someone, in this debate and at all in the debate, is going to be diminishing or reducing the power of the arguments whether someone got or didn't. And then when we're somewhere in the opposition, we should behave responsibly. But apparently you were irresponsible and irresponsible to the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45507	The next replica will be the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, you were talking about a zone in Sibinj and the Black Zone. I don't know what the connection is. You mentioned that it was some sort of indictment to conduct some kind of trial. As far as I know about the Black Zone, no procedures are being conducted. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45509	Could we not throw it away, please? Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45510	After one hectare in the zone, about a million kunas should be spent on the infrastructure. It's some sort of average price. On the other side of the Black Zone, you need a colleague named Ingrid to build a 110 kilovolt trafoss station. You're the government now and you have a chance and a chance to build that substation, and that's not a small amount anyway, is it? The way you spoke about the Black Zone is pre-election, and as far as I know the local elections, what Boric said the local elections were over and you could talk in a pre-election campaign about what was promised and what wasn't. The results we know are what they are, you've lost the election by who knows which time and we have to respect them all together. But that doesn't mean we don't have to fight together for what I said about building infrastructure and preconditions so that this zone tomorrow could hire new people and create better living conditions for all of us living in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45511	Thank you very much. She'll be answered by an esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45512	But you can't seem to get out of your skin. You say you lost the election and now it doesn't matter that no syringe as we say down there has been cut down in the Black Zone. I don't care when we're here in power and I'm down in opposition, I care! And I'll always care. And I want her to work. And we will certainly try whatever is in the power of the central government to make it possible and to move on. But it's unforgivable, I'm talking, it's unforgivable, and that's why this law, we've been talking about the law since 2005. The state didn't give it until 2009, but good. It was said that in 2007, they were invited, these were headlines, look Google and you'll see. In the morning list, the Business Log has a new job going, but I wish it had happened as soon as possible. And now you've had to wait for this government at the state level to run it. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45513	The next call came the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Anticevic, you always like to say that you're a legalist and then you claim someone's turn, someone's a mess. I'll quote you the provision of Article 59. The budget law which, if subsequently established that payment from the budget has been made unlawfully or unjustly, the budgetary user shall immediately require the repayment of the appropriations to the budget. So that's the obligation of whoever's from the Ministry... Where budgetary supervision is established that the funds used are contrary to the law or budget, the budgetary supervisor shall make a decision on the return of funds to the budget. So colleagues and colleagues, in the crown document of the use of state money, is exactly what needs to be done, and now I don't see if it's in the crown document that is so to express the Bible or the Bible for the use of budget funds, why the budgetary does not stick to it and why it must by special law claim what is defined by the law. And another thing, colleague Anticevic, you mentioned article 26, if I'm not mistaken at this point, there is an AUDI and as we heard today, another agency was established in the government. So they are legally defined before the government as someone who manages state property, so AUDI proposes to the government or who is already to be given land and inside are defined by the provisions of the contract as well as under what conditions it must use that land. And now look, here he says after whoever manages the state property finds that something is not in line with the law of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and the crafts that it is not at all in jurisdiction will demand that this land be returned. So let's not duplicate the job, let's not keep saying that we want to lift the administrative barriers, and in principle, with the duplication of business, we're setting up administrative barriers. So that's what this is about. These are two articles you have called upon, in fact one is about work and disorder, and the other you have just called upon an article that clearly tells you that it is lex specialis laws defined how to act and I don't see why in some hybrid law it should be repeated and given to someone who doesn't have the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45515	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45516	Very short. Maybe in principle I can agree that we have one roof law, we always have one, and then we have special laws, but it often happened before that we had basic laws, and then in special laws, you remember the concession law, so when the roof law was passed, then you said no law that comes out will regulate the concession differently, so it was settled in a hundred different ways. However, here, this provision of Article 26 is not in conflict with the law you are talking about but we are also talking about the specificity of the subject matter which is subject to donation or availability, which is land. Therefore, it must be in this way precise, it has every law to you, you have the Law on Property and Real Rights and a whole series of laws that then regulate not only contracts but also in certain laws of a specific nature, whether the Law on the Forests... as they come. Maybe, I'm not going to go into this detail now that you're talking about why exactly on the proposal of the Agency for State Property Management, not self-initiatively... But you can even be partly right, but in this way you make a commitment that someone really cares and I'd say awake about what's going on, that we don't get what's happening to us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45517	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that respected representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said the state here decided to take over, that the government had decided to take responsibility for helping local self-government units. I am associated with the assistance provided by the government to the village and agriculture, the one that is trying to provide craftsmen and that this assistance is generally given to citizens, that local self-government is now in order. Well, I'd have one request, so in the middle of nowhere, just don't help us anymore. What you also mention, you mention 680 million kunas seems to me to be local self-government. Well, it's really huge money from the state budget down from a centralized state down to local self-government. How much money do you think that's on our local self-government? It's a miracle. And I'd really like to stop throwing fog and dust here with some sort of permanent unintended availability and unintended spending. Please, you have the information, please, please provide the information that the mayors, the mayors who were not purposefully spending the money, who were unwittingly available by means. You have the instruments to put it back, and you can block them in the end just in case that story stops once. And what you said about the zone in Zadar, so I'd say it associated me with the promise of the current government, will be 2012. Better, so it's gonna be 2013 better, so it's gonna be better. That's basically the same recipe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45519	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45520	My friend, if you'd concentrate better then you'd have less associations so you'd listen very closely to what I've been talking about. You say let the government not help us, so the government cannot help the one who will not be helped, and someone is in vain and helpful. I was surprised earlier by the fact that some good law that introduces order is why it resists it. No more surprises about it, there's still room for a bit of disgust to fit on the tail of those who were filling black bags. There were black bags pouring from different channels. Transparency, openness, all equal access on equal terms. What's the problem? Just keep yelling. People, don't underestimate people, don't underestimate people, people know that this is in their interest, and many would like to have the opportunity to work in the aforementioned areas, as well as in the unremarkable areas that have been drawn up and the country has given land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45521	Thank you very much. Now a word will be given to the Honorable Minister Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45522	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President. Here after the discussion of clubs I would like to thank you for the quality of the debate and support, unfortunately except for the HDZ Club, more or less all clubs supported the law and that's good. It means that we are moving forward and that we will have more or less agreement in the Croatian Parliament that in this area order must be introduced and that it is not true as Mr Shuker said there is a Budget Law and that he has solved everything. Because you in some contracts when the money was given six, seven, eight years ago didn't even have time to execute or anyone ever asked. The law provided that it was for an entrepreneurial zone, and then it could have lasted indefinitely. If that's what Mr. Schucker was saying about the Budget Law, then I'm surprised that no one in the past term from the economy ministers reacted to some of the debts that existed in 2005, six and seven years. What we put here and what is now an integral part of each contract for the first time we regulate I would also say to some internal rules as to how long deadlines from those initials can be extended for when you get the funds. They are scheduled for 18 months, but if there is a certain higher power, they can be extended further. And that's the three-year limit that we think is appropriate to bring that money to the point. On the other hand, the country that has been given the purpose of bringing it in and seeing in some way that it is meaningful, not that it is given only to worship the municipality or the city, but not for God to do what counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović said in the municipality of Sibinje. We don't even want to think about it. And that is one obligation that we make to ourselves as before the ministry so that I would tell the citizens to see that more responsibly both from the level of this Parliament and from the government is managed by certain resources that the state has which are not small and which will also be used in the future. What is not good is not good to take out certain counties, cities and compare and talk about entrepreneurship zones in the way you pointed out this or that zone. Unfortunately, these zones and this area near Zadar can be properly highlighted by at least the last three local elections because so much has not been made there. So three times four twelve. If it's more than 10 years and it needs to be pointed out, because it doesn't make any sense. And when we pass a law like this if nothing has been done for three years, the contract is terminated, the country is sought back. And it's an obligation that the ministry will have in control, AUDIO or the State Office for State Property Management to implement because it doesn't make any sense. As for the allocation of money and help units of local self-government they will continue to be I have said very generous and active. And when I look at a lot here, I see the mayor and the mayor who just last year could use those funds. There's even a lot of them, so they don't think that's where they're looking at who's from which party. There's a lot of them from the HDZ side of the assembly. So that's no criterion to say who's from which party than who's got a better project. For example, Bakar also received Croatians, wolves Stine and Biograd and Dupolje, and not to list Virovitica, so that I do not list how many cities there were, of course, only by the quality of the projects. So that's where we want the Croatian citizens to see how we do it and if there should be one register, if you need to know the criteria by which a zone is supported and which can be supported, because then the minister will no longer have the opportunity to create or commission that decides on it and not the minister. The minister finally signed a decision by the Commission on the basis of criteria will not be able to allocate funds to the zone in which there is already one unused as the Black End of Zadar. And since last year, Poličnik's been getting funding, and now I've been thinking about it from an entrepreneurial impulse. So, we're not aiming at any planning, the centering of funds, but our goal is exclusively to tell us how to run the order and how to make better use of the money we have at our disposal. When I look at it, I'm glad I can mention here and two mayors who are usually representatives. You see how I remember the mayor and chief of the HDZ now, which also last year was given to Pakrac and Pleternica. So, as I would say, I have more examples from HDZ than from the SDP, so... So maybe that argument doesn't exactly work out for you when you say that someone wants to direct the funds the way it fits. [[You can't hear it.]] On the contrary. We also want this example now of Pleternica and an example of Pakrac can be highlighted as very positive because it is the funds we used from EU funds. So, very honest and very well-intentioned, this ministry will continue to develop infrastructure based on this law in a way that is of the greatest benefit to Croatian citizens and I can say this from here last year's example of practice. And as far as the country is concerned, there will be no more, and I think we should all agree on that. So where it doesn't make sense, it doesn't even make sense to donate a country no matter where it's owned and how it's owned by a state or whoever's running it now. As far as I'm concerned here in the end, since I'm going to have to apologize, my deputy will continue to listen to the debate of the MPs, but she will convey everything to me faithfully, and I will respect all those remarks and I believe that they will be there until the end of the debate. I'd like to tell you now one thing that made me particularly happy. So for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for such infrastructure in the next six-year plan of EU structural funds, my ministry will benefit from a billion and 200m euros. It's a big money that we need to make an adequate use of and find projects to make our economy useful. So that's 200 million euros a year. So much for whether it is necessary to have a separate ministry to deal with it or not. And one more thing, I can boast there that we are the only ministry that used 100% of IPA funds in 2013. So I'm convinced we have the capacity to use these billions and 200 million. It will benefit many people who will invest in entrepreneurial zones and will benefit our citizens the most and I would say companies, entrepreneurs and all those whose Croatian economy is of interest to develop. Thank you very much for your support, and believe me, we don't think the law should be passed in an emergency procedure, we wouldn't suggest it. And as for the Strategic Investments Act, it will in one part and relate to this law when it is adopted probably in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45523	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Honorable Minister said it was for the introduction of order. Well, I didn't hear anyone here today say it was a mess. We're all for the introduction of order. You say after three years if the zone doesn't activate the country returns. I am going back to Article 5 of the Law which says what the zone must mean and that you have not provided an answer in which the individual zone will be activated by bringing the infrastructure to the zone. You mentioned the area and Poličnik and Zadar. The head of the municipality of Poličnik co-worker Lončar spent 10 million kunas to bring electricity from Zadar to the area in Polnik. And I told you before it was necessary for the Black Zone to build a 110 kilovolt trafo station. Do you expect the city of Zadar to have the possibility of building a 110-kilvolt traphoscell itself to keep the zone operational?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45525	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45526	Thank you very much. If you're up for the order and rule, then I expect you to uphold this law. So, if that's the point of the debate. There's no reason not to support the law because I believe you're all for transparency and order. And as for the Trafo station in Zadar and the investments absolutely yes. If there is an investor's interest, if the city expects to hire a certain part of the people, it is a city of great capacity. If detours could be built that didn't lead to anywhere and were worth billions of kunas, then there could be trans-stations built in that mandate. So here I am looking at the mayor of Ivanca now, he has secured it in his zone. So that's things and that's how the city pays itself so they don't get it wrong. If there's a Ivanite, and he saw of that interest, here's a raise and the mayor of Ludbreg's hand, then I don't see why... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ludbreg confused me because the mayor of Ludbreg is next to the mayor of Leprechaun. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the mayor of Leprechaun, too. So the question is why the city of Zadar didn't invest and build infrastructure. As you yourself have said, it was obviously not an interest and was of greater interest to build a tour worth billions of kunas than to achieve the preconditions that investors can invest. But that's another question for other times. I agree you shouldn't talk about it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45527	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is the vice president of this House of Highs, the respected Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45528	Thank you very much, Vice President, and thank you for allowing me to discuss this because I should have replaced you, but here's a chance for me. In fact, I did not expect, although this is a political pay phone, that this law that is more technical and has more technical elements will cause so much controversy and those above all ideological. But it only speaks of the importance that it is necessary to pass this law, that this law is necessary and that I will return to the history of the entrepreneurial zones themselves which I started in the replica. From 2001 to 2003, when the idea went into realisation itself and at that time were one of the conditions of the then government, the coalition government defined. So 3 ministries supported the development of business entrepreneurship zones. The Ministry of Economy then, the Ministry of crafts, I think it was also called the Ministry of Labour. The three ministries, units of local self-government in equal amounts, co-financed the construction of entrepreneurship zones. However, if he had been then, it was the same criticism to those at the time, and especially now the last three governments that had not passed such a law. If it had been then there wouldn't have been a debate like this. This intonated and politically, ideologically colored. In fact, there is another problem why all the things that colleagues have presented today in their discussions above all are very difficult if you do not have one vision and you do not have a strategic general plan without saying sectoral strategies at country level. Then it wouldn't have happened if certain municipalities, small towns, medium, large or what happened in Zadar. Whether or not there are investors interested in investing in construction would then be defined by a strategic document. So this law is necessary and should have been passed long ago. Today, we might have changes and additions, similar times, a similar space where we are, and especially what is extremely important is what I quote in Article 5: "Entrepreneurship zones of particular economic interest are established in order to attract strategic investment projects in accordance with the legal provisions". We had that law yesterday in our first reading. What was said here from colleagues who were still active or were in local self-government to derogate the functioning of local self-government, so I would be happy as mayor when I received my first term in 2005 that the law was in force as it is. I would be happy, I could provide support that I didn't have to set up my own zone, I didn't have this happy circumstance that there was no state land in our area northwest, I didn't have to ask who we had to buy from private ones, round up the land, take care of property relations. But why did we do it? Because we had interested investors, so we invested. The zone was divided into 5 phases according to our budget options then until 2007 we bought land, invested and together with investors we built a business zone. That's one model. If a strategy had been defined at the level of the Republic of Croatia, such a law would have been far simpler for local self-government units regardless of their financial power to realise or target realisation. And today we wouldn't have 190 and something zone practically agree that maybe it was too harshly said that money was thrown away. I would just like and hope that by passing this law with this I believe what my colleague Grubisic had mentioned was that this catalogue or inventory, I believe that before this law was passed, the ministry had to have one inventory of everything because if we read it positively he and it is the base of one inventory, one catalogue to see where we are and what we are now able to be far more quality and perhaps strategic investors attract and form a catalogue which I think is an instance, I read it from this law at the level of the competent ministry to give investors potential to invest and to have space free. I can't read these problems out of this, I don't know the trafostations, etc. Look out, there's always someone who when you have a defined strategy when you're determined for something, then you'll find a way. There's a reason we can invent thousands or maybe there's a real reason. I agree, it's not just a few million kunas to invest, to rip off to tell my citizens and buy electricity, to simplify the matter. The fact is, however, you are now talking about electricity as if from a year and a half ago HEP had put a lock, a lock on the trafocells as if by 2011 it was all honey and milk. Well, we can't talk to each other, so let's be correct about that period. Furthermore, what is extremely important to me, when I mention these calculations I understand the colleague of Hrga as mayor of the long term, however, if we read Article 23 which speaks of support, there is no regret here but I believe that he will read the record, he says "in the case of support provided for in Article 19 of the Law for the construction and equipment of a new business zone support is justified only if the total amount of the available area of all entrepreneurial zones in the unit area of local and regional self-government" respectively. Now I'm interpreting it that I can't start a new zone, ask for land from the state, ask for support if I have a zone in my area that's only in the activation phase, and now I'd like a third. And the fact is it won't be a ban because it's simply not an intensification of this law that the collection of all county zones will be because you watch out for it in the end I don't believe it, it might be awkward if it's written but I don't interpret it that way and I couldn't read it from the debate and Minister Maras is going to stop the investor from coming into some zone where he wants to. Yesterday we talked about strategic projects and we know very well that attracting capital is not simply where we all agree. But you can't impose on the investor, you have to go to Marjan in Lepoglav and he says I won't go to Ivanca or vice versa. Look, I definitely don't see an obstacle in this article of the law. Which is more so when you look at it and generally so far, what has been done by the Ministry of Economy, in which direction the legislative proposals are going simply I can't read it like that. As far as land was concerned, there was a lot of talk about wanting to donate that land would not be donated, so at the very least I see nothing controversial. We're a little contradictory. First of all, when it comes to the State Property Strategy, the State Property Act will come and now that these articles talk about how we manage, so anyone who is mayor or mayor of us whether you have city property and we know very well what procedures we have to go through. We know very well, and if you're giving something away, you have to have a fat foothold for why. What might be, above all, the issue of the profession may be the legal part, namely why this number of 190 happened and some business zones that are not in office. It would be very interesting if data were available, and I believe that everything would be of interest, namely when establishing an entrepreneurial or business zone or an industrial zone, you have to have resolved spatial plans, you have to have a local self-government unit in place first of all, before you start, you have to have a felt cost benefit analysis means one business plan. How many of those 190 and some business zones had a business plan? I don't know, but I believe very little. If they had a business plan to see the cost-effectiveness of the investment, I believe that this figure would be far less. I'm going to do it again, I'm going to support this law, definitely. And I'm sorry it's not the previous government, because this is a technical matter, we'll all agree. I'm saying this is a political pay phone, but this is a technicality. And that's why I'm gonna support this law and I'm saying, I'm sorry it hasn't been passed long ago. Mr. President, Vice President, thank you again for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45529	Thank you very much. Here's two replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45530	Thank you. My colleague Batinic, when I was talking about electricity, is the same as at the time of the HDZ government and now the same. That's what I'm talking about. And it's definitely a problem for all of us, whether you want to admit it or not. You said yourself that it's hard to separate money from the building of a transistor station. When you build it, pay the VAT, right, contractor? And then you give it to HEP and HEP one more charge of VAT on the same thing. I'm talking about it, it's really nakarad. And we all have to fight together to get rid of it. Now in what way, otto-pot. But that, that problem exists and you wanted to admit it or not it poses a major obstacle to creating preconditions for entrepreneurs to enter entrepreneurship zones. Because local self-government units simply don't have the fiscal capacity to build infrastructure so quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45531	Here's the answer to the honourable Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45532	A fellow box I agree, it's not a problem since yesterday, you said yourself, we realized it was from... I believe that with the restructuring of HEP itself and these things happening to us around the electricity market, things will simplify in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I say whoever wants to find something will find it. I don't want to talk here publicly about how I had to organise meetings etc., bring electricity, improvise for accession, etc., unfortunately, but we had to pay more than 90% of that from the city budget. That's just the way things were. But if it were this Law, if it were the Strategic Investment Project Act, believe me, the HEP would have had to, even if it was then in your jurisdiction to adapt to the new situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45533	Thank you very much. And the next replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45534	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Batinic, Article 23 is not a technicality. And when we talk about a lot of these articles of this law, 90.5.6% of them are technical. However, Article 23 is not a technique. Why? Because some processes started at times when Croatia had an economic growth of 5.6%. And many units of local and regional self-government thought that economic areas would attract investors. But from 346 at this point which in function, which prepares them somewhere around 220, 230, means somewhere around 110 of them are out of function. And you, if you apply the provision of this Article 23, then those who are not in office will unfortunately no longer be in office because I cannot get support. And the biggest tragedy is that these inactive business zones are now located in local self-government units located in areas with high unemployment and which are poorly developed and which are not interesting to investors. You know well that with the economic zones, so when it started and that was the expansion in 2004, when the land was massively donated to local self-government units, it wanted to create a single competition that units of local self-government had their own terms of municipal contribution, etc., attract investors in such a way as to reduce pressure on large centres in the Republic of Croatia, that little economy spread throughout Croatia. However, there has been an economic crisis and we have what we have. And that's why this Article 23 is very dangerous. I understand, the Ministry's intention is that if 66% of the zone isn't built it shouldn't be co-financed around. But we need to know how when and when those zones were created and why they weren't activated, and then that argument just doesn't stand anymore. The second thing, let's look at the end of it, the Ministry has, how little there was abuse of these economic zones, very little, very little. And should several abuses bring down a system that definitely offers the easiest economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia Because those zones, just one more sentence, because those zones have communal infrastructure, the investor will definitely come here. [[Thank you very much.]] The investor on the ice where there's no infrastructure will come. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45535	Here will be answered by the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, my colleague Shuker, all of what I was saying in my presentation, you have now confirmed to me through the replica that I was right. When I said technicality, I'd say, especially Article 23 of the technicals, if nothing else, it's a formula because it's a formula. And I said in my statement that he wouldn't be afraid of it, and he wouldn't be against it if he were in 2005. Same formula, completely identical. And why is that? It's just because I told the business zone in my town we were buying land, we didn't get anything from the state. I had to, in 2007, after not getting consent from the Ministry, you were then the city's prime minister, I had to start a company owned by the city. Well, because I had over 100 and some percent more fiscal options to get a loan but I didn't get one. Oh, let's not talk about this right now. We know different political options very well and how it worked. The second thing, which is extremely important, is you say that the system collapses, no, this is being established, this law establishes a system. The system wasn't there and you know it very well. You're an economist by profession, a financier, and you know very well that without a business plan, there is no successful project. No business plan. But let's let it all go together, I say we don't need to intonate it ideologically, this is an extraordinary thing. Maybe, if life, practice in six months, over a year, we'll come up for changes and supplements if something didn't come back to life. And these business zones are definitely empty now, so that's the law's intensity. If there's an investment, they'll be hoarded there instead of me or Marianne's where there's already more than half a dozen. So I definitely can't agree with that and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45537	Thank you very much. The next debate will be held by distinguished representative Marijan Skvaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45538	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy, fellow Members and fellow MPs. I am glad that the debate is really important, and we still care about the economy, jobs and jobs in Croatia, as well as keeping the existing ones, and all of this together is the most qualitative and best solution through entrepreneurial zones. I am particularly pleased that this debate has started in this part of the argument, that we mayors, above all, can tell me personally where we have really invested in entrepreneurship zones since the beginning of 10 years and have seen and defined their strategy, the goal that the development of the economy is very important. But I still have to say from my experience that for that part of this law, you shouldn't at all. So why, because this law defines basically the support and investment in the zone, and we who are largely spent that part through our own budgets, which otherwise our cities and municipalities of northern Croatia are very small and I found it interesting when there was Mr. Minister here at our house and I thank you because indeed the minister has visited all of our..., all the zones and has seen the situation. And when we defined that basically two of our budgets we invested in our development of the zone, that, with practically minimal support from other levels, that's what we really are and when we know what we want, we know what our priorities are and that we're willing to invest and now it turns out that we've learned that we're not getting anything or that basically now as a position we could be able to do what we used to be either to share with a really hand and a hat unargumented where we should and where we shouldn't. Let's sort of define the reasoned, transparent rules of the game, but I'm for it and the rules of the game and order must always be. And what is defined in that section anyway? What we need from... entrepreneurship zones 123 that have no activity, and when we define how much is invested in the very part of the zone plus the value of the land, it turns out that we really have one billion today frozen into a system that has no results, that we have invested that one billion where there are activities, where there is entrepreneurship, then today we wouldn't be talking about that part of the unemployed... Croatia. But now that we're also talking about part of this law and we're talking about the competitiveness of the corporate zone itself, then there's also a big question. The question of our zone of what I said where we were alone, every square meter bought by our own means, although we were also surrounded by state land when we defined the spatial plan and when we let it be accepted it was immediately refused that we could not get this state land but had to retreat to the particles where we bought every square meter. At the same time that at that moment all the infrastructure for which you are primarily competent, it is primarily the access road, the roads within the zone, it is the sewerage, it is the public lighting, it is the legposts. When you finance most of your budgets, you have no support. In order to... someone who gets 80 acres of free state land, and still gets 25 million kuna, let him find that and that... piece of equipment, and even in that part, he's helped to get a possible investor saying don't go anywhere else, just go to those and those zones. Then the question is how to be competitive today... and there I really ask the Ministry to expand a little bit in that part of a particular system to see how and who in some way came to its zone, how it developed its zone and that in that part of it then it makes sure that these aids are very much taken care of, that it really doesn't happen in that part then we turn out to be suckers where much more unargumented investment is being invested, that now more should be given to maybe end what it has or that in some things even more encourages them. Let's still see what in this one transitional period a little different arguments. A unique register of entrepreneurship zones has been established, and it should certainly be transparent, just to have all the factors and good analysis to see how and how we have the zone. What's said about the investment and financing problem, I agree, I said what's in the local self-government's control, and the other things we need to help us, help us to really don't need and we finance the water system, it has a concessionary for the water supply system. What's most important is the same trafostation not only was it the worst about these VATs, but it's what you have to pay for, say, one megawatt of your own funds, and now it's you who have to sell... power. You'll never sell that megawatt, it's always... a percentage around... because, so you're 30% more of your assets allowed someone to get to such capacity. What's most important is also here is how to be competitive when an investor comes to your zone. Most often from your experience, the investor blackmails you each, blackmails you in a way that comes to you and offers you a certain offer of how many people will hire it, what is the value of the investment, what is the type of investment, which is the type of investment and, of course, after you passes 5-6 more entrepreneurial zones. He offers each of the following what you've told him, he offers... listen if I want to make that investment with you... whether you're going to offer something less. Now how are you gonna... who's got, what I said at the beginning, free land, even big... for investment, he can go with the price 0 to the investor and he'll be very competitive. We have one price below which we can't go because we know exactly what the value of investment per square or per hectare is, and that's the minimum price we have to offer someone, or really if we go below the price, I think we're doing one big offense because we can't sell something for below what it really is worth and we're not competitive here. And in this way you should... see little, analyze how much the price is in some way a hectare of land in Croatia, you have from 0 kuna, 2 kuna and you have up to 100 euros, and there I think the Ministry should make sure that at the general level, at the state level, we bring those prices into line, that we offer investors in a very good way where they can invest and under what conditions they can invest until they can somehow blackmail us. On the other hand, in addition to the part that the Ministry should be helped, we are talking about how the criteria, the zones are defined, by size, the type of activity,... but we should see, make sectoral analyses of whatever area an investor may have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it will be an entrepreneurial zone intended for us to have more levels of whether it will be for metal industry, textile industry, wood industry, the automotive industry must start at Croatian level to define the sectoral value to which it pays the most and better. He can't have all these analyses all over Croatia. I would also like as mayor to be able to make planes or rockets in our area for Mars. I guess we'll go to Mars, but it's not really possible. Now what happens to us is that otherwise there's a case for one investment that you need 200 electricians all over the area we don't have these people. And we need to see human capacities in these resources very much how to develop these areas. So it's a very complex approach and concept of the development of the zone... It is indeed that local self-government, regional self-government, counties or the state or ministry must be at all this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would also mention is that the same ministry since we had around these strategic investments of higher levels yesterday these are the same strategic investments of lower levels of investment in entrepreneurial zones on some hectare, a hectare and a half to several hectares where it must also help with first and foremost solving property-legal relations. Here, I'd only mention the case with me. One clean shift of streams in an entrepreneurial zone that the stream of curvature flow has to be placed in one frame and you get one particle that could be square form and rectangular form. Just moving the particle out of one corridor that... allowed on one other part lasts a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We haven't been able to solve it yet, because there are six levels to go through, first of all, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Agriculture, then the State's Attorney's office needs to give its pain, returns to AUDIO. And of course each one of them will make some kind of remark that then all comes back to the beginning again. And let's just say one such thing is whether you're going to round that part up in your particles and allow you to sell the land. If you don't have it in some frames that after that part... For a month, you can't tell a potential investor if he can and under what conditions he can come into your area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in any case, what's said in this part of the law we need, we need transparency, we need an argument, and we need really support that will give us a forwarding ministry and that support of infrastructure nature we need to invest. Local units can do this because somewhere between a million and two million kuna is investing in a hectare of entrepreneurial zones so for some local units it's a big problem. I admire, I wonder big cities like where we have 50 million kuna budget, 3,000 inhabitants about 20 square miles. He's having a hard time investing in his own zone. We who have 10 million kunas... It's the same thing for miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can finish. We really need jobs, we need economic development, and we really need to do this in a transparent, reasoned way, and I really expect help from the state because local self-government needs it both for us and for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45539	Thank you. Next up for debate, Boris Kovacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Let me first point out, or express my regret that there was no law like this before, such a text, and here is Mr. Shucker, who may have reminded me just when there was a boom of entrepreneurial zones in 2004 and 2005. I wonder if it wouldn't be good if we had then observed such a law, although of course it's not the years of the beginning of entrepreneurial zones and entrepreneurship, but it was then a boom. So here's how I'm going to relate to Mr. Skvarić's debate in part, of course, when he's also talking about entrepreneurship and business support institutions. It's already been said here today by several speakers that here's the entrepreneurial zone, after all. The opinion and attitude that there may still be too many in Croatia are also expressed. We know that this is all and that we were all surrounded by those very years when we talked about 400 and 600 entrepreneurial zones in Croatia and the big ones, when we talked about and presented different examples from abroad, and then it was said that I did not know every village in Ireland has an entrepreneurial zone. Of course, that wasn't true. I took a personal look, but it's less important. Still, they came back to life. Also, these entrepreneurial support institutions have also relived in one part and are well aware of what was said in the opening presentation rather neglected in the past. But Minister Maras is right, especially when he spoke in the introduction about selective allocation and I think he meant land, but also about support. It is true, so we are witnessing that he ruled by me too often the principle of selectivity that had one high correlation with the colour of the central government and the color of the government at the level of units of local or regional self-government. And it wasn't just, it wasn't just about the selection of land that might have been the most important thing here today. Of course, it was also about this one, in my opinion a negative selection of cash support, but also what I think may or may not be as important if not often and more important than this, and today I don't know whether it was over or not mentioned, or maybe here I wasn't careful enough, so someone might have talked about it, but in every logistics not only from the central government of the Republic government, I know about such examples through ministries, through other state institutions, etc. This contribution, especially for those units and such units of local self-government, is immeasurable. He's hard to measure. And that's what's very important and very important. And there was a selection, unfortunately. It wasn't even spoken today, I already mentioned this boom maybe 2004, 2005, it's hard to locate just years. But, of course, not only those investment cycles, but the nucleus of those zones were created long ago. We can still talk if you want from the former state. But we also witnessed that certain zones were developing in certain areas while much of the territory of the Republic of Croatia was occupied before '95. before. And of course this once-made potential, that one snowball is then difficult to compensate especially in areas that we have baptized from special state care or other areas. That's not what we were talking about today. Maybe you don't need to talk about it all because it's history now. We're talking today about the text of a law that needs to be introduced more orderly. And that's what I think is the most accurate expression, that's what the minister and some of the debaters were talking about. And here we have said a moment ago, the truth through the replica, and when it's introduced into any area of social life, the higher order usually rises up. I can see why you're making noises, too. If you're taking someone through this we've called it a flat-rate selection today, so through one co-op, through one autonomy of making decisions that I'm asking nicely for, but fortunately enough, they're also bearing fruit. They are mentioned here, and we all have to accept it and support positive examples. And I'm lucky that's the way it is. I wish they were now further locomotives of our country's development. No matter how that happened, but if that were the case, it was. Please, nice. And now we're introducing order, we've got the text of a law that might be better and I pray nicely, yes, but I wonder once more a second time, so why haven't we had it before? I'd be happy if we changed it today. To have today perhaps the first or other amendments and additions to that law as we call it on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. And of course also because of all of this, and other examples, because this was about both the use of funds, so I can't believe today that the funds weren't used for purpose. I'm a permanent sucker, please nice, but I'm convinced by some that many zones, not only zones and these other entrepreneurial support institutes have come to have everything. I come from a local self-government unit where I can't say we didn't get anything. Yes, and we're very grateful. But it's mentioned here that we haven't figured out exactly how much of our budgets we've spent building our zones in the last decade. So here is why I think it is necessary to introduce order, which is why I advocate the adoption of this law, and of course this one who has an objection to what it says in Article 1 I ask the nice text that these laws first and foremost regulate the questions of the determination of entrepreneurship infrastructure, species and the categorisation of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurial support institutions. To form a register. That's what we're talking about today. Well, even here, I'm expressing a miracle so how we didn't have that before, no matter what government. So now here's ours even a year ago. The establishment of a register, so who can have something against it, i.e. building a systematicised database of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts as the competent authority of the State Administration for Entrepreneurship Zones, etc., etc. Both the system and the support, i.e. the preconditions and the criteria for granting support for improving the business activities of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. And now perhaps we could speak of Articles 10, 11 and 12 of the Law, but I believe that they are written first and foremost in good faith. Article 25, I don't mind. I was a little confused by article 32, but I'm reading from it, and this is the latest article if I'm not mistaken, but I'm reading from it that there's no need for that local self-government unit to supply data because obviously this register has already been created in view of the regulations previously in place. 25 seconds, I'll use it anyway. When the representative of the drinker spoke, and he was, in fact, the best indicator and actually proof that this is exactly about this indeterminateness I was talking about, when he mentioned the success of HDZ mayors. He's in his debate at one point, so isn't that exactly the proof of that selectivity that I've been talking about? And my time is up. Thank you, Vice President. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45541	Thank you, too. We continue with Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45542	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I have to say, first of all, that I didn't mean to talk about this at all today. to have an individual debate but when the minister came with the view that no one had done anything until now, that history began since 12 months of 2011 I felt called to say something. The more the minister himself states in the bill that this history exists, that it lasts from 2004 as it was written here until 2012 and that in fact the entrepreneurial zones of all kinds are one good story, no matter how much she wants to degrade herself from the current authorities to make this law look better. The numbers speak for themselves enough, so there are certain registers because when you write 46935 employees and guess at five that last decimal means that something exists, someone delivered some data without talking about the surfaces or the total investment that is in the last 352 kuna numbers, it means that something still exists that there is something left and that it can't be changed by some kind of exposure of the minister who says, here's what we are now introducing order. I come from the island of Rab and we have two entrepreneurial zones or work zones, we can call them whatever we want. One in the municipality where I live, the other says here a radius of 20km, we have an air line, we have a little longer is we hope that again one discriminatory criterion which is 20km radius and why we depend on each other, successful on failures, and why we all add up by equal numbers, so through this formula as much as a mathematician can't, or I find it difficult to apply it because he said and the vice president leaves a doubt. Because if it writes the total activated area of entrepreneurship zones in JLPS in units of local, regional self-government or when it writes in paragraph 2 the total amount of the activated available area of all entrepreneurship zones within the unit area of local or regional (regional) self-government, it is clear that we cannot acquire a clear criterion of what this refers to. And why do I say that? Because we in the Primorje-Goran County have 26 entrepreneurial zones that have been shown through spatial plans as a desire to develop from 36 local self-government, it means that only 10 of them did not plan such areas within their own spatial plans. Some areas such as the Matulji Municipality, in this scope, have, say, a spatial plan of more than 300 hectares intended for working zones of the entrepreneurial zone, and only 8. Who do we count the 282 acres? To those who are successful, to sum up in this formula and tell those who do something there you can't get state land because the one who doesn't do anything, and he covered the big surface just won't let you do it. Is that a good criterion? I hope that the Proposer will consider it and give us a clear unequivocal message as to what it means. Because when we listen to these explanations about state land, we always question what happened before, as they say, chicken or egg, through these discussions in the House. We all forget 15.2,'91. One date that has brought many local self-governments into many long-term processes with the Republic of Croatia on forest land. This was sometimes the case in the former congregations of municipalities in their spatial plans as a universal property, and beyond the meaning of all that was outside the scope of the construction areas of the settlements created today's problem of local self-government. We have very attractive areas owned by the Republic of Croatia and where many local self-governments are trying to prove that these spatial plans, which in almost 50% of the municipalities were then very inaccurate, actually damaged them and in many processes, many local self-governments are trying to gain ownership of that land. And what makes it illogical that the state is still trying to create a higher value on land that it doesn't even manage? Why do we have a problem if local self-government gets state land, works 1, 2 or 3 examples that have abused perhaps a good intention of the state, and we will ban everyone. And the state itself, I say, came by administrative means to its ownership, i.e. It has been registered as the Republic of Croatia, and today through a number of procedures, it still yields or loses and local self-governments are registered here and there on such land. We had a big problem in entrepreneurship zones because these particles of state land are very large. It was a cleavage problem. We couldn't split without the location permits but we couldn't have the location permit without... and that came up and solved it. Today, it can be torn within the borders of urban plans of the zone, and that job goes on. Who's gonna take a chance and do something? Whoever wants, who's a successful mayor, such people recognize and there's no point putting them in the same basket with all these others as this formula puts them. I've said an example of another zone on an island that's been promising the same thing for years to start before the election, and there's some funding going on. If the county of SDP, the city of SDP County co-finances everything it can, you get a couple hundred thousand kunas. If HDZ is a municipality, you get nothing. Today we hear numerous remarks on the other hand that they could not access any means. And we're talking 356 zones. Well, I guess not all 356 local self-governments were HDZ in power. Well, I don't think that makes sense. There's never been so many of us in power. It is 200 or something, but never 356. It means someone else had access to it. Should we talk today about us not being able to come anywhere and ask anyone for any kuna just because they're gone? And that's why I expected the minister, we have a current problem. He's the minister of entrepreneurship and crafts. We have a problem at the markets today. Thousands of people are going out on the street because they're being pressured by fiscalization. They don't have anyone to talk to. We'll all end up at the employment desk. Is that the state's interest? Where's the secretary of crafts, entrepreneurship? They must be in some kind of shape. Not all buyers and shoppers are there, either. So why aren't they being helped? That's the job of the minister. To help him talk to the Minister of Finance. To find a solution for them. Unfortunately, I say, we deal with stories like this, and then we say that 40% of the area is a loss, that this loss amounts to a billion and 700 roles of the state through direct financing and land granted that the loss of 680 million kuna is for the state. The state that gave the land estimated before... Before it covers the spatial plan, with me a simple hill, the moon's surface on which she barely collected her foot, I guess it's estimated at several million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I guess somebody activated the zone and did something. I gave it back to that country. I'll tell myself through the exploitation of mineral raw materials millions of kunas for the exploitation fee to agree on the plateaus. So is that a loss? I don't think so. And a normal government, a government that holds to local self-government, cannot behave in a way that in advance always, on one, two or three examples, creates the forms of law that then they all put in the same basket and then those who are successful, they have to wait for these failures, and these failures never reach those who are successful. And so we've been offered for a year and a half, we say hello, here comes colleague Cain today, and he says hello to this Law. We're passing laws, one large number and unanimous, but our economy is worse than it was. No matter what good wishes. Says the Minister of Finance, we're in front of bankruptcy. So what now? And all the laws are perfect and excellent. I don't think this Law was a big revolution or a big gain of administration, someone said today a manual or instructions for using entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45543	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. The first one was Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Boric, fortunately, that maybe when it comes to talking about this local or regionally, there's someone else sitting here from the Primorian Mountain County who knows the same thing, so there's not the only truth left that you said. And you have uttered a complete lie. And that is that the Primorian Mountain County has selectively funded investment in business zones in units of local self-government which is absolutely not true and these data can be obtained, as much as and where it is invested. But what the Primorian Mountain County has done a long time ago and, in fact, on the trail of these very criteria that are now being adopted is that, eight years ago, with these modest, relatively modest means that it was meant for infrastructure in the business and equipment of local self-government units to be allocated to those business areas that had already realised certain projects, or where it started with entrepreneurial activity. And if you accidentally thought that the business zone of Kukuljanovo, i.e. the business zone of Bakar did not receive funds from the county budget the fact that if she was getting it was minimal, which is quite logical since it is among other things the biggest zone I think still in the Republic of Croatia. We unfortunately call it an industrial zone, it's not, or it's industrial in a very small part. It would also be discussed how successful it is in its intention and the goal of industrialism, it is more commercial because it could conditionally say business, biggest business zone in the Republic of Croatia. But I definitely had to warn myself it wasn't true that in a selective way it seemed to be, in a selective way, but according to certain criteria adopted by the Primorian Mountain County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45545	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45546	Here, my colleague said everything nicely. It didn't seem like it, but it did. So I'm standing next to my own. I know what we got in our community. The second zone is in formation nothing happens there. They won this year because SDP is four, I mean 350 or 400 thousand kuna. We who are in office almost, began the first investors to work their facilities, they simply, we can't get anything. That... And I hope that this finally law will now, as my colleague says, also classify the Kukuljanovo zone which is very successful but failed by it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So then in part of these few criteria is probably a large zone with all these three subgroups can be everything you say here and trade and mixed zone and processing and logistics distribution. It's probably going to be settled by this law. Because there's really everything there. And what it's going to mean then in business, here he was and the mayor, unfortunately he didn't welcome an individual debate, went, thanks to him and his activities this area moved and the HDZ authorities who knew how to run it into office and the last 8 years 2000 new jobs were quite good enough justification that in a county where every day more and more unemployed were still a success with which we could show up in front of people, put their name and win the elections, no matter what anyone said. For me, it's a zone that bothers everyone else. The City of Rijeka is also trying to reach its end, but unfortunately here is the City of Bakar, which is very skillful and well run by the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45547	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, today, practically all day long here in the assembly, we hear that this law is passed because it is a mess, which is not known, what it is, but it is very interesting that the legislator in his opening part practically brings data into a hectare of employees in kuna as much as has practically been invested in the economic zone since these projects have been run. If it's an unsettled condition, then where did you get the information? It means that these data exist, so that your data existed, and that you probably are them, mostly they exist. Therefore, everything that has been paid out of the budget and everything that has been given through the State Property Management Office has been recorded somewhere and it exists. Therefore, the stories are also political demagogy at the end of the day, unfortunately, and there was this debate as it was, because Mr. Maras simply wanted to convince him that he was pushing small entrepreneurship. If he is a guru of small entrepreneurship then he should have gone to those truckers for Bajakovo because they are entrepreneurs and convince them that no certain acts have been adopted, that certain public services were not prepared for what is waiting for us even though we knew what would wait for us from the experience that happened when Slovenia entered the European Union, the same thing practically happened to us. And it couldn't have happened that the freighters who worked on Bregani simply stopped and that those few freighters who worked on Bajak and other crossings would have taken over their work. They're the same entrepreneurs, and that's what someone should have taken care of. But something about what it means to fabricate these laws I will say something more and look back on Croatia's competitiveness and you will see what is one of the basic arguments why Croatia stands so low in the assessment of competitiveness, but I say about it later. But I repeat, from an unsettled state, it's very interesting that we have data practically in the kuna that we've invested in. Very interesting mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45549	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45550	Comrade Shuker, I said so in my debate right at the beginning. Okay, everyone has the right to say what they want and think, but there's always going from these positions that it's always been bad so far, and that today is great and best for us, and many who walk down the street are protesting etc. They don't know what they're gonna do. It simply doesn't stand and I say the responsible minister would admit possible mistakes. So this emergency procedure, and everything that we said yesterday to the economy minister through the Strategic Investments Act, to finally comply and try to agree on something meaningful to know where we're going and where we're going to go, because this to say so far was no good, so if 190 zones were activated and 50,000 people were hired, I guess there was no time of recession that we went into and the crises, that it was to activate these 150 other entrepreneurial zones and we wouldn't be talking about this kind of numbers of unemployed today. Is the loss of those 680 million kunas and is all that the state has invested, and this is not great for me, the funds returned through VAT, through the investment of local self-government units, through the investment of entrepreneurs, through the revenues generated by local self-government based on the incomes of these 46,000 employees. Whether that amount was more than a billion and a half kuna, so that these failed ones were also an inactive mistake. No, and that's why I'm saying that stories about entrepreneurship zones are a success story, and where it ends will show time for a year and a half, two, that we've moved that and where we're better at based on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45551	Thank you. Next up for debate Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45552	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So the proposal for a law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure brings forward, I would say, primarily, the introduction of order, which has already highlighted several speakers on this side, with what I fully agree with, so the introduction of order into the area of encouraging entrepreneurship infrastructure projects. In the inherited system, we couldn't be satisfied with the situation. It was clearly noted that funds aimed at stimulating development and building, for example. entrepreneurship zones in certain areas simply did not produce results, so this is what these figures are saying. Of the 346 entrepreneurial zones 196 were active, 27 started with construction, and 123 zones had no entrepreneurial activities. In those 346 entrepreneurial areas where activities were involved, more than 46,000 people were employed, while in these 123, none of the people were employed, and for these zones so far, funds have been allocated, obviously in a large number of cases without a real economic reson. And I am thinking that this law puts an end to it, that it introduces the necessary order because the investment of funds in an unspective entrepreneurship zone only with the aim of spending the money so as to be able to say that a certain investment is done or because of some political resonations is not only doing damage to the amount of funds invested, but rather doing that damage in terms of the benefits that would result in those funds being invested where we can expect the benefit and profit from that investment. I would like to point out, then, that there are several places in the law that I particularly believe will contribute to the objective of achieving here, namely the objective of a rational, efficient and economically justified grant of support. In the first instance, therefore, a single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure is established in which it will now be clearly visible, so which are users of support for incentives measures, gifts or benefits. More importantly, the basis of this register will allow for monitoring of the effects, therefore, of these support in order to assess the eligibility of investments. We will have a clear indication that further action will be taken on the specific entrepreneurship zone. I would like to stress the provision of Article 22 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It therefore stipulates that the advantage of granting support is given to those entrepreneurship zones that are more and better used and that is essentially the main war of this law in my opinion. Rational investment where the funds invested will also result in clearly measurable results, not investments, therefore, for the sake of investment itself or for some such political reasonings. I would also point out the provision of Article 24. This provision therefore stipulates that in the case of land available to the Republic of Croatia, for the construction of a new or expansion of the existing business zone, the priority model of land availability is therefore primarily the sale of land, the right to build and capitalise companies by importing property into the underlying capital of a particular company. So now they're priority models and it's particularly stressed and encouraged by those where the state gets a certain equivalent to its investment. The donation seems justified only if it is very certain that free will have very high effects. In my opinion, this prevents one of the main disadvantages of the present model from giving up state land without being used for the purpose for which it has been donated. There have been even more cases of selling the donated land and never having any production plants on it. However, it seems to me that the determination as one of the land supply models is only, therefore, the recapitalisation of companies by importing real estate into core capital may be too restrictive. In fact, it seems to me that it limits the possibility of entering real estate, for example in the creation of companies. Because the concept of recapitalisation applies if strictly, therefore, we view the increase of the underlying capital of an already existing company. It is true that this term has been transferred from another law, but it seems to me that it would somehow be better to be as a priority model, so to invest real estate in state-owned property in addition to this, cite and set up companies and make it possible to invest real estate in a particular company when it is already established, so not only when it is recapitalised. Furthermore, I would point out Article 29, which provides for a mandatory assessment, i.e. the impact of the support. In particular, I would point out the justified estimated economic justification of support in terms of the intensity of the involvement of entrepreneurs in the activity of an entrepreneurial support institution, and thus the number and quality of the projects developed by economic development and entrepreneurship. So here, again, the need to valorise investment in funds and introducing, so order into this topic, which is the idea of a guideline that is going through this whole law. As this law regulates the subject of entrepreneurship zones, here I find the important issue of entrepreneurship zones in the City of Zagreb as a representative and Zagreb roads. The city of Zagreb as a Croatian metropolis is the most potent area for rapid economic growth, for attracting investment, for establishing a large number of start-ups. Zagreb has a visible advantage over other counties, so when it comes to the number of highly educated workforce, investment dynamics and other factors that make a particular area competitive. And do you know how much in the area of Zagreb was founded and placed in the function of economic or entrepreneurial zones? I'm afraid neither. Zagreb was 1990s ago......... It's out of order, so. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Before the 1990s, Zagreb was the largest industrial centre of the former Yugoslavia, the largest therefore. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Batinić: A fellow Shuker here you are for discussion, you will have a chance.]] Today, Zagreb's events are major business projects, so the shopping malls in which we sell mostly foreign imported goods. Therefore, a programme of entrepreneurial zones in the Zagreb area was adopted. It is both Buzin and Žitnjak, Lučko, the street of Ljudevita Posavsky, industrial... in the Councils, and six other zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, then, in 2009, when these latest changes to the program were adopted, it did not start with realisation. So this is what I'm saying to essentially make an appeal to implement these entrepreneurial zones as soon as possible and to have the same ministry contribute and possibly encourage local authorities. The city of Zagreb is one of the most economically active areas in Croatia and now, but this activity can be raised in my opinion by far higher level especially in this area of reviving precisely production activities I would especially say in the area of high technology, I would say there is a great untapped potential in this area and a great possibility of including and scientific institutions which is a large number here in a very small area. And here is whatever we could hear here from the opposition lines of criticism and at the expense of Article 5(3) of this Law, which enables the Republic of Croatia in independent cooperation with local or therefore regional units of self-government and other legal persons to establish entrepreneurship zones of particular economic interest, I would like to welcome it here because of this example and hope that certain areas of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, which have just been considered in the area of the city of Zagreb for the establishment of such zones, because of all of these comparative advantages that I have previously stated. Here is the final point I would point out to the provision of Article 26, which stipulates that the Government will, therefore, terminate the grant agreement in the event of the possession of the donated land contrary to the provisions of this law, or unless it is brought into force for the purpose of building an entrepreneurial zone. So, as far as the breakup is concerned, it can be, therefore, a break-up based on party will and a break-up under the law. This break-up under the law can therefore be due to failure to comply with mandatory clauses of one side, i.e. because of changed circumstances. Since this is not about the classic land donation, it is not about the classic two-sided binding contract, but about the donation contract. Here I am thinking that for the sake of legal certainty and to prevent possible long-term disputes or perhaps abuse, it is therefore good to prescribe in this place that the availability of donated land is contrary to the provisions of this law. So, the legal reason for the end of the contract. Therefore, that this is particularly apostrophe or that the said regulation is again prescribed by law as a mandatory chapter in the grant contract concluded in this case. In conclusion, I believe that this law is absolutely necessary, that it introduces the necessary order and transparency in an area in which order and transparency were missing. I think you should back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45553	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this debate may have gone in one wrong direction today for the simple reason that we don't all want to accept the facts that it is, which is that neither the economic zones began with one policy nor anything but most of the economic zones that are now the most attractive have been achieved by the transparency and courage of the unit leaders of local self-government. Neither did Dugopolje because some minister said there would be an economic zone there, nor did it happen with the Kukuljans, nor could we have happened here closer to Zagreb, since counterpart Pandek spoke neither of the Holy Weeks because of it but simply the leaders of the local self-government units had a vision that there was something to be done and so they came into existence. Some other zones were at the time of expansion, which was definitely in 2004, when the expansion of the economic zones started and when the land was simply being given to local self-government units because they were looking for this land because it was simply not translated for the purpose of establishing an economic zone. And in many units of local self-government, these economic zones live and function. Unfortunately, the economic crisis has come and those poorer units of local self-government who thought they would fight these economic zones have failed to activate them. There were several mayors here today from various political options, and when you look at it, starting with a respected chairman through a colleague from Lepoglava, some of your colleagues, a colleague of Kovacic, who was in Ivanic City, some colleagues from the HDZ club each had a different way of establishing these economic zones. But for the simple reason, they had a vision and... they got in the way of getting to it. And if it weren't for those likely economic zones, he could've been a genius minister, there wouldn't have been. It's facts we can't escape and that's the way it is. However, what I want to say is one of the biggest regrets of the Republic of Croatia is that we are seen as a highly administratively regulated country, that we have too many acts that simply serve nothing, and once in the government where I was sitting, we also had a project called HITROREZ, which was tasked with eliminating both the state level and the level of units of local self-government regulations that simply serve nothing and which are called for regulations that have already been arranged elsewhere. And I can tell you that we cut quite a bit, and then someone just calmed down that project. It's like he gave him a sleeping pill, so it calmed down. Why am I talking about Heathress? Because according to all the criteria of this HITROREZ, and I responsibly claim this law would be found to be cut off and unnecessary. Why? So in the very introduction of this law, some colleagues have already spoken about it and I have spoken, it is clear that the resolution ministry has basic indicators of what the situation with these economic zones is like. The second item in the assessment of the necessary resources is not to provide for any additional resources. So the funds are even below some level that were years ago, and if you don't have the funds, there's basically nothing you can do about it. And what does the law tell us? So you have these basic concepts of what entrepreneurship centers are then we're talking about entrepreneurship zones, species and categories. Look, for a small municipality, an entrepreneurial ten-hectare zone is a mega zone. And if you're looking at her from the position of the state, then it's a small zone. And that entrepreneurial zone isn't from the state, it's for those people who live in that local self-government unit. So the measurement criteria are simply not good. You need to see, starting with who that zone serves. The area serves these citizens, these people, and normally those economies that will come there. So, some small municipality of 10 hectares is terribly long until, for example, for the City of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split there is a Bakar municipality that still has 100 hectares probably in some future would not be enough. Also, Dupolje if there were still 50 hectares, it would probably be filled in at some point, given that practically there is nowhere in Split to make another zone. Tomorrow with the development of Sibenik Zone Podi will probably remain too small. We can also talk about the economic zone in Virovitica in the same way. Therefore, the height of the economic zone depends on the needs of the local self-government unit. It simply categorizes that the administrative from above is not good. So that's one provision. Second provision, the unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructure. We already have that. Now it should be incorporated into the law that the ministry must keep records of those to whom the money has been given. That's ridiculous! So why is there a Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship instead of having recorded all those he cares about? Is that supposed to be built into the law? No, it's just a commitment. After all, this obligation comes to you from the Law on State Property Management, that obligation comes to you from the Budget Law. Therefore, you do not have to put this into a special law, you, if you simply ask your colleague Linic to use funds inadequately, he will send budgetary supervision and in two or three days you will have a record of how the funds are being spent. So you don't have to build it into the law. Delivery of data on the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure. So please be nice! Is that supposed to be built into the law? That doesn't even deserve a rulebook, but good. Priorities and objectives of the support system. We have the Support Act, and if anything is regulated by law, and if anything from Brussels is viewed with a triple increase, they look at the support and how these support is shared. Why? So I said the minister would be around 200m euros a year from the ministry of crafts of the Brussels-based enterprise. So it's defined by another law and others will control it, so you don't have to control it here at all. If you give anything that is not the support of Olga Spevec or the report you send to Brussels will respond to you, and you can draw whatever you want in the law, if they tell you that your support is illegal, then forget it, and that is an excessive provision. The support system from the entrepreneurial zone is also ridiculous. You have the aid law, you have EU directives, so I don't see what they'd put in there. Article 23 is particularly good because if there are dozens of smaller municipalities or smaller cities in this crisis that have failed to activate the economic zone and because of these dozens of municipalities, one county is below 50 total active economic zones, those 50% can be, say, 7.8 great economic zones, these 10 cannot be supported even though these units of local self-government cannot do so by chance without support from the Ministry of Economy just because they do not satisfy something in the total. It's simply not good because each of you who comes from a certain environment knows of a smaller unit of local self-government that has an economic zone that it hasn't activated. I can talk about Zagreb County, I can talk about the city of Zagreb and I can talk about the business zone Buzin which is not activated but you can't even put a match on it that you want and not that it's not activated. It's usually that zone at the U.S. Embassy for those who don't know. Secondly, there is the former Deputy Prime Minister, today's EU Consumer Protection Commissioner, who has made it clear, and this can be seen from a phonogram that the state will no longer grant land but that land will be given in concessions, etc. And that some local powerful men will not have state property. However, Article 24(6) speaks otherwise. And Article 26. Look at me again, we're back to being a pre-administrated state. If the state had an Audi and we said it was inefficient so now it has been distributed to more valuable and less valuable properties and if this Audi manages the property then I do not understand what Audi will propose to the restoring ministry as it says on the basis of the previous reading of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts on the proposal of the Agency for State Property Management. So if the agency manages state property so that someone can get involved in her business, then they're responsible for it, no minister is responsible. The director or head of that agency is responsible. So we're getting back into each other's bones and it's this intertwination of powers that comes to the conclusion that unfortunately we don't know what's in control. And that agency was just founded to finally eliminate that unfortunate privatisation fund and that the State Property Management Office, which was what kind of trom is to create one agency that would be far more undertaking, better and quality that would put all unactivated state property than the military and further put into office. That was the intention when Audi was founded. I guess today's government when it split that Audi into two agencies is probably not happy with how it works if it makes two agencies more efficient. But now we say in this law or catalog as we're going to call it, not that agency can't do it, but it will be done by the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship. So colleagues and colleagues at the end of this criminal provision are ridiculous and make sure that every unit leader of local self-government is primarily in the interest of human, political and other reasons to succeed in his unit of local self-government far away before some minister who takes care of 500 and some other unit of local self-government with a view to reducing the desire of the minister to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45555	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. First responds Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45556	Thank you. Of course, no one said that the entrepreneurial zones would now become a magic wand that nothing had existed before and that this apparition would now make the entrepreneurial zones flourish and that it would become a 100% better situation than it was. But the truth is that there are certain units of local self-government that have used non-purpose assets that have given them land not for the purpose for which they were given, and that this is essentially the purpose of the person who was giving the funds, so the purpose of the grant was not used for what it was meant to be. These funds could have been invested elsewhere where they could produce a new value. It takes control of that, and I think we all agree on that, and it's absolutely unclear to me so strongly and sharply... this law that will not bring negative changes but will bring order, will bring transparency and, most importantly, will bring more effective assessment of the effectiveness of the support invested in a particular area. And as for the entrepreneurship zones you mentioned this in Buzin, they're mostly there as far as I've seen foreign companies' representations, I don't see any production facilities there where the purpose of creating entrepreneurship zones and investing in entrepreneurs' new production, new value. Whether it's a store, it can be one of the activities but certainly must not be the priority and almost the only one. I think the purpose of entrepreneurship zones is especially what I see in the city of Zagreb, creating new production values, especially by involving high-tech companies and encouraging high-tech companies, because the city of Zagreb is an area that is extremely suitable to encourage such activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45557	Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45558	Comrade Pandek, you should know that manufacturing companies are based on the initiative of someone who wants to invest, and it is not a problem to produce something, but it is a problem to find a market for it. and the structure of the Croatian economy is unfortunately what it is. Everything's just production is gone. But in one area, several thousand people work, then you can't say it's not an entrepreneurial zone. Entrepreneurship is intellectual work. You can't say it's not entrepreneurship. But well, you probably meant it should be. So, as far as order is concerned, no one is against seducing order, but if the bill on the budget is defined by another law as to what needs to be done if someone doesn't respect what he signed, then I don't see why he's proposing it again. The one who gave those funds must react. And be sure let's just say that colleague Linic is now responding to... It's the exact same thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the one who's in finance simply doesn't know how to think differently. It's inconceivable to me if someone gives someone money not to control why he gave them the money. And that's why all the time, I've been saying it and as a minister, that's what fellow MPs who were then say it and now, I just don't want to say it differently when I was a minister and today when I'm an opposition representative. Because without order, there's nothing to be done. That's the facts. And therefore, I don't see anyone today against seducing order. But I'm just repeating, there's a mess when you have vague provisions in the law and they overlap. You have to know exactly who's in charge of what. And then there's no mess. Actually, it may be, but it's easier to find out who did it. But when you say state office for or asset management agency, on a proposal the Ministry will do it and you can finally get away with it, I thought this one would do this, this one says I thought it would do that. But if the Agency is an asset management authority then it's known that she needs to break the contract if someone doesn't respect the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45559	Thank you. The next replica of Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45560	Well, here's since the industrial zone of Kukuljanovo, i.e. Bakar, a colleague of Klaric, who is my first neighbor there, is only for the truth. So the industrial zone of Kukuljanovo exists from, is a socialist zone, yes, it's a zone set up by Luka Rijeka, BrodoCommerc, Brodomaterial, large Rijeka companies and that was then created. Of course, she was developing and well that she was developing and sure that Mr. Mayor had some credit for it. And that's not to be disputed, just so it's not created by Mr. Klaric because he didn't create it. They were created by someone else or some former time. And he was developing it as his duty as mayor. What I've already said is a question of concept. It was supposed to be an industrial zone, and unfortunately, that zone isn't an industrial zone. And why isn't it an industrial zone? On several occasions it is in the area, the area's donated land of state, recently, the last I think Mrs. Kosor was there when it was happening there the land is sold, parceled to relatively small parcels to which investors don't come, but investors come. Okay. They are investors, you said that the structure of our economy is what it is but partly because of the decisions made within the zone our structure is economical as it is. Because when large investors came to the Primorje-Gorski County to invest in production activities, then a few dozen acres as long as it took in one plot could not be obtained in the Kukuljanovo industrial zone. But in no other zone in the Primorje-Gorski County because such size did not exist, because none of the HDZ gentlemen in time wanted to leave Miklavlje Primorje-Gorski County or Matulji municipality. Now as far as I know, there's something going on about it. However, in all of this, these local leaders were very important and important in which direction and with which such zones are established and how they are traded with land, or whether they should be traded or possibly drowned in concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45561	Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45562	I, my colleague Turin, honestly, am not clear to me what I said other than what you said. So, I didn't mention the name and last name of any leaders, not a single party, I mentioned, no, I mentioned several zones and I said that they came even the time I didn't even mention that they were created simply by a vision of leaders, local self-government, and thank God that there were. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45563	Please, colleagues, let your colleague Shucker answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45564	But I don't understand why you're so sensitive to it, so eventually I'd be glad there's another zone down in the river, after all, that there's a big and container terminal where the terminals are going to be put off and not give us some sort of terminal in Graz or someone else picks it up. But, therefore, the leaders, but you have confirmed what I said and I am glad that the leaders of the local self-government unit are the ones who basically dictate the pace and the assessment that will be in that economic zone. How good and bad. And also unfortunately, it should be repeated here over and over again, it is one of Croatia's biggest problems and it is the structure of the Croatian economy, we unfortunately produce very little. And you can't say there's no production in Kukuljanov, there's production. But there are also shops and everything else. So, there it came, which showed interest and demand of self-government units because because of employment due to the end of the local budget's income from municipal compensation and contributions made it possible for these people to build something there. But it's very interesting that no hall is practically empty to us. I think it's the biggest profit of the zone. Now what was inside is what was in that moment in line with the requirements, the demands, which the market was looking for, it was developing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45565	Thank you. Next replica Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, in your presentation, you briefly touched the Podij zone, voiced concern that it might be too narrow in the future, or that it could not satisfy the interest of the entrepreneurs. I think you're misinformed because we've made sure that the economic zone of the Podium doubles in its surface. And we also equipped with enough infrastructure that for a long, long time, given the policy being conducted in the town of Sibenik, which is to force production activities on the Podij zone will be enough room for project development. Otherwise, I will show through this replica and my own personal opinion, which is that in economic areas that have a very high level of benefits, production plants should be forced and trade as a sufficiently profitable activity should go into mixed-use zones and pay all those taxes and local self-government and keep from which further economic development can be financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45567	Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45568	Thank you very much. I really, really don't feel good in this assembly if we don't listen to each other. So I mentioned three large zones along Zagreb, so three cities that have some kind of prosperity to develop. Among other things, so today we all expressed our satisfaction with these areas, including the Podi zone, regardless of the political option. You cannot say that this very government which was the policy option from 2004 to 2012 did not have a major impact. The other thing, no one, no one down there, and you were just four years in power, and the government didn't affect who was going to come to the dance floor, but the entrepreneurs simply came there and conducted it. And that you or whoever already recognized that there was more room to buy there than colleagues in Kukuljanov and Dugopol, that's... what I've been saying all along, it's an assessment, an assessment, a vision of the local self-government leader that something good is going to happen there. But look, tomorrow someone by these standards can tell you 66% that you have practically 50% of the space used there and you don't get money to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45569	In the total investment structure in Croatia, that is only 10% of state support worth the zone. That's what I forgot to say. A colleague Josip Djakić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you said almost everything in this law is missing, and the least small is what it says about equal regional development and uniform economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, all those areas that are not active certainly did not experience their fill-up because the road infrastructure was not brought to them. We cannot expect all three or four zones to be filled in Virovitica and to develop in the future when the Podravska ipilon stands and the road is not built to find a part of the owners from Zagreb a cheaper way of production in Virovitica because there is a kuna for production plants of land equipped with a set of infrastructure. Similarly, in this law, what is called an electric power zone was to be solved, i.e. trafostations that counterpart Branko Boxi was talking about how HEP kidnaps simply from these money that is obtained as support and transforms into its own trafostation and this is the long-term problem that is most expensive in the equipment of infrastructure in industrial zones. So regional development cannot be uniformed by this law because those who do not run as in Virovitica, there are legitimate reasons in Slatina, which is the non-connection of the Republic of Croatia with road infrastructure and you cannot expect entrepreneurs to travel 2.5-3 hours, 3.5 hours to Virovitica to achieve their activity or manage their plants there. So Croatia is not even by anything, and if there were no highways to Dupolje, it certainly would not have made such progress, and also according to Rijeka, that what was done would not have been as developed as in St. Sunday. I believe that road infrastructure as well as other infrastructures has an important importance in filling the zone. These passive ones need to help to be active, not by this law to keep them from developing further.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45571	Thank you. We have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Djakic, you've basically touched key things. And neither would these zones that we're talking about today, those 4-5 would be so attractive that they would fill up so that they wouldn't have access to the highway. Here, just take the economic zone in the Stankovci. It would never exist there if you didn't have the Pirovac-Vodica exit, it would never have been, but since it was created where it is, that the conditions are as they are, that practically half an hour from Sibenik were made and some 40 minutes from Zadar the logical thing that everyone will come to invest because it's not his problem to get to work. The same story is with the new zone, probably at this point perhaps the most attractive in Croatia, and this is the one at Ivanja Reka so where IKEA is working and where Rugvica, where it will simply come to expansion only because of that at the moment when Croatian highways decided to move the collection houses several km eastwards, makes a direct exit to the Zagreb bypass that zone has become very attractive. And that's the access infrastructure we're talking about, which is far more important than this very help we're talking about, because if you make such a infrastructure then you'll bring water and sewerage and everything else, and one of the very important elements for someone to come into some kind of economic zone is, among other things, infrastructure equipment. And let's not get carried away that we're going to have so much attractive investment in some small community that's away from the highway. Someone will come there simply because of tradition, this or that to make a certain production... will have cheaper labour than they will have in some big center and these are facts that we cannot escape from and that's just the way it is. The economic zone in Varazdin was mentioned very little today, it was not created by chance. The government of the Republic of Croatia has done a lion's part of the job and then the mayor of Varazdin, a lion's part of the job in order to do everything that has been done. And you have no such symbiosis under this law, unfortunately. I see the deputy minister laughing sweetly, when he does what he's done over the past 10 years then he'll laugh even sweeter and I'll laugh sweetly with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45573	Time. Otherwise she's in Trnovac's Bartolves' colleague Shucker. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45574	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you and your colleague Shucker questioned all the articles of this law in one row at a time. And you know what the problem is, by me? We have a problem when one ministry in the former government in this government became two ministries and one given to the CNS and the other to the SDP. And then we have what we have, yesterday's Strategic Investments Act, which in the criteria of a strategic investor requires BON 1 and BON 2, a certificate of impunity not more than 30 days old and all in writing. And this law has its own criteria, so to form a register of legal persons, they have to come under the threat of a fine of 100,000 kuna, so don't answer it. Who will cut off the fine, the minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, so when he cuts off many who do not report his total income, the total expenditure per part of the investment in the infrastructure of the 50 million kuna could go beyond that. And now you're wondering what kind of investor should come into this country when he looks at all this and goes through an x-ray like this. He gives up at the start, he quits because I don't know what else to do but make up every day that we should do some new employees in the state administration who have come and who should probably process the data all day long so we know exactly where this thing ended and that there are no doubts and that we simply justify the passing of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45575	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45576	Thank you very much. So, when you look at the articles that define the size of the economic zone, then I am now asking myself a real question after tonight and today's debate who is in charge of the economic zone whether Vrdoljak or Maras. Because we can't put someone in an economic zone of 50 ha with 10 or 12 employees and not more because it's small and medium entrepreneurship, and at the same time if there's an investor who's going to hire, say, a hundred people to whom it belongs. Or I mentioned the Pliva case in the debate yesterday. Pliva invested 100m euros, hired 20 people. According to those criteria for strategic investment finance, it is a strategic investment, not according to the number of employees. Now, who would that Pliva have wanted to build that drive that would belong to if it belonged to Maras or the Wreath. Would that investment be based on this law in some economic zone now to the head of a local unit or would he go to the Vrdoljak and it's a strategic investment? And then there's the head of the Department of State Property and he says listen there, that Stef who's the head of that municipality or the city for three years hasn't brought in an area of purpose, and Pliva can't build anything in that area. I'm just paraphrasing that unfortunately it can happen when it clearly doesn't define who's in charge and that's the key problem. And we can laugh here as much as we want, but unfortunately, the head of the local self-government unit find themselves in front of the wall several times, especially those who are poorer. Look at what Banovina looks like to us, look at what practically complete Slavonia looks like, and yes, someone will object to me that my colleague Kirin is not what Virovitica and that part would look like to us. Therefore, these are facts that we cannot escape from. And when we put these facts as the basis for this law, then make sure that the HDZ armpits support that law. But in this way, when you're disabling elemental things, and you need to know that there are a lot of people who have been in local self-government and at the state level and there are both bad and good experiences and we simply need to discuss it that way because this is a topic that has no political colour and simply cannot have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45577	Thank you. We've exhausted the log-in list. He finally answered the word of Deputy Minister Drazen Pross. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45578	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed MPs and MPs. Allow me at the end of this debate on behalf of the promoter to thank again for the constructive, quality debate today on a law that is actually extremely important. Its main goal is to foster economic growth but through one systematic planning and the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure, therefore both zones and entrepreneurship support institutions, and of course it also works on even regional development and to encourage faster promotion of entrepreneurship and ultimately to encourage investment and what is most important in Croatia today, which is greater employment. Zone data, support they existed, that's true, but there was no system. What we're doing with this law, so we're establishing this system, we're establishing order, we're establishing both responsibility and intensity is actually this law, and in these 150 entrepreneurship zones where there's no business activity, this entrepreneurial activity is being initiated. I'm sure we all feel the same way, and that's why I'm inviting you to support this law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45579	Thank you. Deputy Minister, we have two reported replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45580	Well, I'm really sorry, and I didn't mean to say any more, but I just can't react to this, because you just said, Mr. Deputy, don't be mad at what I'm about to say, you shouldn't have said. You can't tell if you've given someone support that's not recorded. It simply must not be, because under the Budget Law you are obliged to lead it. Did you control whether it was spent or not, it wasn't spent, and look if someone didn't run it, please, he's responsible for it. But that's not why the law needs to be passed. I keep saying because something doesn't work doesn't need to be passed. We just have to put ourselves in a position to function, nothing else. And if it were so best, it shows you an example of those who worked on pre-accession funds. As we acted in a way that we could improvise something, we couldn't make a deal. At the moment we accepted the rules of the game, our agreement rose to over 90%. It could have been, we discussed it today. So that's the point of everything and that's basically the point when we're talking about removing administrative barriers. Just eliminate everything that we need too much, which we don't need. Let's make the system work, so if something was wrong with HDZ so let the SDP fix it, so tomorrow when someone else comes, it doesn't matter what, so we don't have to eliminate everything that happened. Let what was good leave, what was bad try to eliminate and based on it might make the system a better shade. And that's the whole point of the story. And it's not the point of the story that we're passing the law to convince ourselves that the laws we've passed don't work for us. Well, that's the biggest problem. So, you are required under the Budget Law to lead whom you have given support. Also, he who manages state property is obliged to keep a record of who gave some kind of property and why he gave it to him. And that might be a problem and privatisation if we didn't learn anything here because the contracts weren't broken at the time when it was seen that whoever bought the company simply didn't stick to the contract he bought. Also, whoever won the country if he doesn't stick to the contract should take his goodbyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45581	Thank you. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45582	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Assistant Minister, to initiate entrepreneurial activity safely with this law and the formula you've installed in it, I'm sure you won't do it. Because if you said that these passive zones will support them on the market programme, offer everyone who comes to Croatia then I would say that you have a real intention to help the teams who have designed the zones, who have spent their resources minimally in their budgets units of local self-government in their construction, you are now making it impossible for them to develop further and make progress. And you can't say that this is equal to and evenly regional development of Croatia. This is the braking of the smallest in favor of the greatest. This is the password of your entire policy that you represent in all segments and agriculture and economy and crafts and entrepreneurship. It's clear in every segment that you're only raising large ones and that you're trying to put the little ones out of force. How else to say it because all the zones aren't even full in Virovitica. How do you get 100 acres of sandy land that isn't useful for any culture and design a zone along the path of the future road that will lead to Barch if you put in such a formula that makes it impossible? How do you invest city funds, county, regional development and yours in 100 hectares of surface and have a large zone on that direction near neighbouring Hungary if you have disabled this formula? No, this law certainly does not go in favour of the development of crafts and entrepreneurship, it certainly is not for progress and development it is a brake to burn down a few more swears to this unfulfilled unfortunate budget run by incompetent people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45583	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45584	Final draft law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 429, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Klaric. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to come to the pay phone. Here's Mr. Pros, please enter the amendment one to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45585	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the applicant does not accept the proposed amendment to the proposal of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, Amendment One, for the reason that Article 3 defines the concept of entrepreneurship zone as an infrastructureised area defined by a business spatial plan, which is in line with respect to the competence of spatial planning in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45586	What does the applicant say? He's gone, so we need to make a statement about the amendment. Who's in favor of a proposed amendment the government doesn't accept? No one. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Please declare Amendment 2 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45587	The applicant does not accept the proposed amendment to the draft law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure for the reason that Article 3 does not define the concept of an entrepreneurial zone of particular economic interest for the Republic of Croatia but is already defined in Article 5. The final draft law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45588	Who's in favor of a proposed amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 81 votes for and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure in the text as proposed by the no-amendment Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45589	We continue with - Final proposal of the Inspectives Act in agriculture, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 428; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture is with his associates, Snježana Spain. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45590	Good afternoon, good afternoon! Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies of the parliamentary representative and the gentlemen of the parliamentary representatives of this law are governed by inspection affairs, organisation and mode of work, rights, duties and powers of the inspector and other issues of importance for the work of the agricultural inspection. The agricultural inspections did not have a specific law until now, but these issues were resolved by individual laws which would in one place regulate inspection operations, organisation, rights, duties and powers of inspectors and other issues of importance for the work of the same. While overseeing the application of a large number of legal regulations which are regulated in the area of agriculture and food, it should be pointed out that veterinary inspection, sanitary inspection and economic inspection which also carry out inspection controls in the area of agriculture and food have special laws governing inspection operations and their way of working, and this Law on Veterinary Control, the Law on Sanitary Inspection and the Law on the State Inspectorate. The agricultural inspection was carried out by 30 June 2013 under inspection of the application of 17 laws governing the area of agriculture and food until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU Laws implementing the EU agricultural and food regulation of 13 laws laying down the jurisdiction of the inspection in agriculture to carry out controls and official controls on them. We note that the agricultural inspection will continue to carry out inspection of the application of the laws which have remained in force and which are regulated by the area of agriculture and food at national level. This law regulates agricultural inspections related to the following areas: agricultural activities and additional activities in agriculture, agricultural policy and support measures, regulation of the market in agricultural products, agricultural land, fertilisers and soil improvers, quality, transport and use of plant protection products, quality and labelling of agricultural seed and fruit material, agricultural production of tobacco, hemp and macaque, organic production and labelling of organic products, integrated agricultural production, health and hygiene and food safety of plant and animal origin and feed, food quality and food quality at the level of primary production, genetically modified food and genetically modified food for animals of plant and animal origin, production, selection and trade of farmed animals, holding and use of domestic animals, the work of associations dealing with farmed animals, the production of food and the origin of wines and the origins of the wine and the origins of the wine and the origins and the origins of the origins of the wine, the origins and the origins of the wine, the origins of the wine and the origins of the wine and the origins of the wine and the origins of the wine and the origins of the wine and the origins of the origins of the protecteds of the origins of the products and the wines of the products and the wines and the origins of the productss and the productss and the origins and the origins and the origins of the origins of the origins and the origins and the origins of the origins of the productss of the products and the origins and the origins of the origins and the origins of the origins of the origins of the products of the products of the products of the products and the products of the products of the products of the products and the products and the products of the products of the products and the origins and the origins and the origins of the origins of the origins and the origins of origins of the origins of the origins of the origins of the origins and the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of origins of the origins of origins of origins of origins of origins and the origins and the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of origins of origins of origins of origins In order to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules concerning the implementation of the inspection supervision covered by the Law implementing the EU Regulation, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, it is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure, as it is a matter of unification and simplification of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45591	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Boxti's Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am, for your cooperation. Here is a law that unites 4 agricultural inspections, meaning agricultural, livestock, vineyard and food quality inspections. It is important to stress that these inspections have so far had a fully harmonised legal framework for their work, based on 17 laws that speak of inspection control in agriculture and food production and work quite successfully. If it has already gone into the pooling of inspection services, why has the veterinary inspection of this law and the fishing inspection been excluded? All of these are inspections from agricultural revolving areas which are primarily in place to protect consumer health, but also to implement good agricultural practices. What will certainly happen is that each of these 4 inspections will lose their independence and independence both professional and management. Here are the articles that I will comment on, Article 11(2), for the purpose of performing the work of the agricultural inspection section, says the district units Zagreb, Varazdin, Osijek, Rijeka and Split are forming. Isn't that the establishment of pre-war communities again? It makes no sense or purpose to set up district units except for the entanglement of the necessary personnel and I will give an example where the minister founded even 14 instead of 8 veterinary inspection offices, for which there was no need, no professional justification or conditions. One of those inspectors is also in Clay. As far as I know, the Gline area doesn't have such a large stock that it would need such a profile of inspection, and I also don't know that there's a developed meat industry there, so there's really a need for that. It's more efficient and it's more important that they start up in the counties because they make sense of all the things that are working well so far. The inspectors are independent in their work and the appointment of heads or heads of departments between the ministry and individual counties does not really have any business justification. Article 13(2) of the Fund for the establishment and maintenance of the central information system of inspections in agriculture, etc. The e-inspector shall be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. This is yet a special pearl, underlining insurance in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So the e-inspector is an unlicensed app that has no confirmation or verification of the Ministry of Administration, at least I don't know it does. Otherwise, the e-inspector is a system developed by a Croatian company for Republika Srpska inspection services and has only been slightly processed, sold to our ministry without application errors being removed until today. To write down an indication that the funds for a concrete IT system are provided at the position of the state budget is obviously a bargaining for the author of that programme. This provision prejudges that the system could later still change, although it now has a number of illegal solutions, which is why inspectors are terrified of working with a bad system. Article 15(2) and Article 8. which is related to recommendations on whether veterinarians may be inspectors, so the Faculty of Veterinary Studies has all the colleges that provide a professional profile necessary to manage the profession of a livestock inspector and a senior food quality inspector as far as I know. Therefore, there is no reason not to classify experts in the profile of a doctor of veterinary medicine in order to be able to carry out inspection tasks as livestock inspectors or food quality inspectors. Article 20(1) of the Inspection in Agriculture on the implementation of inspection supervision shall then draw up a record of the facts and information and notifications obtained during the conduct of the supervision and of the second supervised entity or persons referred to in Article 19(3) of this Act, which has attended the supervision, may place its observations on the draft minutes and then sign it. So paragraph 2 has no purpose or purpose because it regulates the matter regulated by the ZUP or the General Administrative Procedure Act at the level of the Croatian judicial system. in Article 52, the same applies to the obligation to sign by the supervisory entity that the ZUP does not prescribe and the party has the right to refuse the signature without justification. I think this kind of detail at the law level is too high. Article 23 is amended as follows: Article 1 if the inspector determines in carrying out inspection that the provisions of specific laws and regulations adopted pursuant to them are subject to the right and the obligation to order the identified irregularities or deficiencies to be removed within a specified time limit and to make the recovery of the funds unlawfully achieved. Whether something has been achieved legally or unlawfully about it, I guess it brings a medal to the court rather than to the inspector. So most often, the Criminal Court makes a decision on the return of funds acquired by illegal action. The inspector, in accordance with the rules in the area of finance, as well as the Criminal Law, would not be authorised to adopt a refund measure which he has established to stem from an illegal act. So, bottom 2 should be wiped out by me then. Article 25. if, in the exercise of inspection supervision, the inspector finds that the law or other regulation in the jurisdiction of the other body is required to notify the competent authority without delay. I guess the inspector isn't a state intelligence officer or a media service, but he should file an indictment proposal, and it should be written like that. Here's the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45593	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Igor Chesek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45594	Vice President, thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Boxtius, you spoke very well of this law and of the Inspectorate himself. You also talked about the distribution of inspectors to offices or branches, you mentioned if I wasn't wrong about Clay. However, what farmers, farmers, are more than the sole distribution of inspectors is interested in the distribution of agents of the paying agency in agriculture. This is a far more important matter for agricultural producers than the inspectorate itself and where the inspectorate itself will be. Because you know for yourself that individual branches, i.e. the paying agencies in agriculture, are being abolished. So unfortunately, our agricultural producers are not in so many informational writings that they can solve everything on the Internet, so it happens to them that they have to travel 40, 50 or 60 km in one direction to solve their problems. It takes their time, precious and... Money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think both the government and the ministry should deal with this problem more than this inspectorate problem. But I agree with your debate, and I support it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45595	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Igor Čeek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45596	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to say that the HDSSB Club will support this Bill proposal, but we also know that yesterday, the harvest began in Slavonia, or the eastern part of Slavonia and Baranja, and all those participating in the harvest, I want a rich birth and a good price. What she'll be like today I'm dear God knows. But first of all, I want to look back on the situation, or the situation in Croatian agriculture. What's she like today? Today, it sinks into a deeper crisis that is especially evident in cattle farming, especially in cattle farming. Or in the production of meat and milk as the highest form of creation... values in the production in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are we aware of the fact that 15 family farms are being put out in the Republic of Croatia daily? So, as many of us as there are today in the Assembly, there are so many agricultural economies being shut down every day. The entire family is being financially ruined and there is an increase in unemployment and the creation of new social cases. In the economic branch which is a key part of the food system, of course, I mean agriculture and for which there are just ideal conditions and long traditions, an increasing dependence on imports is being created in Croatia. For these imports, the state is running out of funds because the country's chronic external trade deficit can no longer be covered by the borrowing or further sale of the nation's family silver. These are the questions I think we should resolve before this law. There are countless questions in agriculture. What about the price of the wheat? I mentioned it a little while ago. On the European Stock Exchange, she's moving around Kuna 40, Kuna 50. She's still unknown to us. A day ago, two of them started harvesting, we don't know what the price of wheat is. Is she going to be 15, Kuna 20. The peasants, or farmers, would be pleased with Kuna 35. Farmers themselves say the first European harvest and standard Balkan prices. What about the damages to the elemental accidents, e.g. Drought? Who has the right to compensation? They are entitled to family farms, natural or legal persons that are leased on state agricultural land. And what about those who own private property? No one even mentions them. But let me go back to the bill alone. In the very explanation, the Ministry says the following. In view of the need to coordinate and regulate inspection operations of the establishment, mode of work, the right of duty and the powers of the inspector and other issues relevant to the work of agricultural inspection, livestock inspection, wine inspection and food quality inspections, a single law is proposed to regulate the issues of all agricultural inspections. It's commendable anyway from the ministry. Because we have heard that 17 laws have so far been united in this one law. I repeat again, if we did not have a strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture, but we have taken over the common agricultural policy of the European Union, at least we finally have the Agricultural Inspection Act. However, I would like to refer to the very articles of the Law, i.e. Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8, which refer to inspection work and the areas of inspection, which relate to inspection tasks of agricultural inspection, livestock inspection, wine inspection tasks, food quality inspections. And I would like to say that there are 72 points of information or jobs that will be carried out by agricultural inspection in the future. I am interested, especially if today it is known that hundreds of agricultural inspectors are working in Croatia whether they will succeed in this huge volume of work and whether there will be an increase in the number of agricultural inspectors. As much as I can read from this proposal of the Law, a certain part of the work it has done so far, or a sanitary inspection, will pass the activity of agricultural inspectors. What's gonna happen to those health inspectors? Will they be transferred to the Department of Agriculture? Or are they going to become agricultural inspectors or are they still going to be sanitary inspectors or God forbid, that's why they're out of work? These are key questions that I do not see solutions or answers in this Law. So I'd like to ask you if you could answer these questions for me. Otherwise, the Bill's proposal is good for me, the HDSSB will support it because this is one roof law regarding agricultural inspection, there should be order in any case in agriculture, but there are another questions that are not, which we don't have answers to, and that's why it might have been better for me to go in two readings. Otherwise, I repeat once again, the HDSSB Club will support a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45597	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative, Marija Vukbratovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45598	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, very briefly on a law in the field of agriculture that I thought was not particularly controversial at all. On the Committee on Agriculture, he was unanimously accepted. So, as we have heard so far, agricultural inspections are carrying out inspection tasks over the implementation of 17 laws governing the area of agriculture and food. It is extremely important laws, from the Law on Agriculture, Land, Seed, fertilising, plant protection, market, organically integrated production to the Law on Wines and genetically modified organisms. The inspection shall also be carried out on registered and unregistered buildings such as agricultural land, production facilities, processing and storage of seeds, food and food for animals, grapes and wine, shops, therefore phyto-apothecary, farms, as well as on the areas on which plant protection products are used. However, agricultural inspections have not so far had a law in which all jobs, structure, rights and duties of inspectors would be regulated in one place, but were already defined in each of the 17 laws, unlike some other inspections in agriculture that regulate or oversee the same area, and have their own laws, such as sanitary, veterinary or economic inspection. Agriculture inspections are agricultural inspection, food quality inspection, livestock and wineries. Each of them conducts surveillance in its area, so that agricultural inspection controls land, aid, fertilisers, seeds, markets, storage of cereals, industrial plants, organically integrated production. The food quality inspection shall monitor market standards and food quality, namely milk and dairy products, fats, olive oil, processed fruit and vegetables, market interventions and the organisation of the market and labelling of products. The operations of the livestock inspection are the supervision of the breeding, production, protection, labelling, zoo hygiene conditions of keeping animals, the market, quality of food of animal origin and quality of food for animals, while the wine inspection controls the production of grapes, wine production facilities, storage and the wine market, strong alcoholic beverages and aromatised wines. In the organisation of agricultural inspection, there are at the Ministry's level in all 4 regional units, the establishment unit responsible for carrying out agricultural inspection operations. The organisation of regional units has also remained the same compared to the laws so far and we still have 4 regional units Zagreb, Varazdin, Rijeka and Split, which operate in all our counties. The required number of inspectors shall be based on the number of supervised entities and the tasks of inspections shall be carried out by senior inspectors and inspectors. Professional conditions for a particular workplace remained the same as in previous laws, i.e. completed the relevant college, work experience of 5 and 4 years, respectively, and passed a state expert exam. Furthermore, the law defines the powers of the inspector, the announcement of inspection supervision, the duties of supervised entities, the keeping of records, the issuing of a solution, the taking of samples, the possibility of temporary withdrawal of documents and complaints, as well as the criminal, transitional and final provisions. After entering the European Union, Croatia has a better chance of developing, improving than in another branch of the economy. There is a great chance of competitiveness in the production of organic food, traditional products and products with a protected designation of origin and geographical origin. However, all that food should be produced according to strictly established rules and regulations and with a high level of control. The proposed law on which activities, rights and obligations are at the place of control, as well as those supervised, will contribute to better and faster achievement of both. There has been no significant change in the proposed law regarding the obligations, rights and activities of the agricultural inspection in relation to the existing law so far. Because of the above, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45599	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Miss twilight, please, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yes, you've told your colleagues, I'll look at you first, in my own that this is in reality that nothing special about this law and as you've interpreted it, a man would really say that in this law everything is relatively ok, that what is prescribed by agricultural inspectors especially cattle, is more or less acceptable because it's the area in which students who attend the Faculty of Agriculture and Agriculture are studying. But let me tell you something, just a little something, a little bit. In 2008, legislation was adopted in the process of bringing national legislation into line with European Union legislation, which amended the system of animal traffic control. In this regard, the authorised veterinary organisation, after the decision of the minister, began to carry out veterinary checks on the holdings. The veterinary examination of holdings established the Register of Farms as a basic prerequisite for establishing the functionality of the animal identification and registration system, which was also one of the criteria for closing Chapter 12 relating to veterinary, phytosanitary control and animal welfare. Listen well to me, for the welfare of animals is mentioned in this law, and so are the things of this chapter 12. In addition to the control of the traffic of animals directly in the function of combating illegal traffic and the grey economy, veterinary examination of holdings is a product and a tool whose application results in measurable effects and in the sense of consulting animal owners on the obligations arising from complex veterinary regulations, and in particular the beneficiary of support in agriculture on their obligations arising from 14 veterinary regulations listed in the addition of the second Regulation 73/29 of the EU, or the requirements of the rules relating to the achievement of multiple compliance, and the improvement of the knowledge and ability of all persons responsible for animal welfare. In this law, only agronomies, i.e. I don't know a farm engineer, can implement certain elements of this Animal Wellbeing Act. Of the 70% of the multiple compliance requirements, about 70% arises, the exemption from multiple compliance requirements stems from veterinary regulations and 14 regulations relating to the mandatory notification of infectious animal diseases, animal identification, animal registration and animal welfare rules, animal welfare regulations, animal food regulations, the prohibition of use of hormones in animal production, which have already been transposed into Croatian legislation. I still want to make a point, as far as veterinary and veterinary matters are concerned. So, I'm just going to talk about a little bit of what's been done all these years about human and animal health. The new college, which has been at the Veterinary Faculty for several years now, is environmental protection, the veterinary protection of the environment which, of course, deals with animal waste, is a problem that must not or may not be seen only from the aspect of profit and income. Therefore, while ensuring the production of healthy food and indigenous products, the simultaneous protection of the environment is also the basis for development. Now, let's not count from tourism and beyond. So, I won't just talk about disease repression, but I know that for years now, I don't know how in reality I don't know what to call and for years we've been here to direct the competent ministry, not only now you and the former minister and that former minister have never been able to break into a lobby of agronoms that I greatly appreciate as field experts in my own way, I really appreciate. I don't see why now that we've got the law, because other professions don't have the law, the veterinary inspection law is through the legislation of the Veterinary Act. Right? Sanitary inspection, we've now received a special law, so I'm interested in colleges who are at the Veterinary College, given the duration of the veterinary college that you can't finish in three years, there's no such thing as that, there's no. It lasted five, now six. There's nothing to integrate, but everything, absolutely all the colleges of livestock. Now I'm going to list these who eat, from the welfare of animals, physiology, anatomy, pathophysiology, feeding and breeding of domestic animals, feeding are especially a college where our students and veterinarians get, so I won't be arrogant, but I'd say the same if not a higher level of education. Besides, leaving, working in the field, you can laugh at a colleague I don't know if it's you. On the board yesterday, I'm gonna say this now is a colleague who I don't know the director of the sector said that food safety has nothing to do with animal health. That when I hear it, it's really great, really great. This is an excuse that veterinarians, therefore, cannot be doctors of veterinary medicine, or that they cannot be a veterinary profession. I thought that when this law came that something could really change and that you would see the situation. But I think it's all the same, the lobby is the lobby. It's all right, but we'll see how that lobby is going to work in the field. It's not a threat, because fellow inspectors from all these professions that I'm talking about are very cooperative and will continue to cooperate. But it would be very nice if you really accepted the amendment, I instructed it to be here, except for the agricultural profession of the target or veterinary profession. Because I'm really telling you, someone who has completed a three-year study at the Faculty of Agriculture or Agronomics has four years of working experience and can apply for a cattle inspector. Someone who completed a six-year study with a mass of objects and with their practice on the ground of four or five years on the ground he can't apply. Well, that doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense, and only a little goodwill is needed. Here I am asking you to try to respect all of this once again and to really try to adopt this amendment, he will come to you, perhaps you've seen him before. I really think that this would be a major step forward in the cooperation of all of us on the ground and in the cooperation of the professions that I once again greatly appreciate, I greatly appreciate them in the advisory service, in the services where they have really made progress in livestock farming, indeed. Not to mention winemaking, not to mention other things where there are really top experts and, of course, they're in animal feeding. I personally know them and I appreciate them, but I think that by introducing them in this section and the veterinary profession you're really going to do a lot for, and it's going to be kind of recorded that for the first time here it's kind of taken a step forward for something good. Thank you very much. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45601	Thank you, too. We have two reported replicas. First came from colleague Vukbratovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45602	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the twilight, I will look back on that first part of your debate when you actually told me that I gave my interpretation of the law. Of course, I'm not an inspector or a senior inspector so I can say that I understand the area so well. However, I am too responsible and serious to give some of my interpretations, so I talked to my fellow inspectors, with colleagues who have been doing these jobs for years, and they are senior inspectors, and they have actually told me and suggested that nothing in the law has changed, that these are all the rules, obligations and duties that have already been regulated in the existing laws only now are united in one place which they are particularly happy about because in this way will actually make their work easier. As far as the other part is concerned, I kind of think one of us actually messed up the pots there. You were talking about a veterinary inspection if I'm not wrong and not a livestock company. These are the agricultural inspection laws which, of course, include a livestock inspection, not a veterinary inspection. I'm neither a veterinarian nor a cattleman, so I can't claim I'm right, but I don't think that part is anything new or anything different, and that's something that's already existed so far in the law. Therefore, this strict division of the livestock inspection, i.e. the livestock inspectors from veterinary inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45603	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45604	I didn't want to criticize you, don't think that at all, but I just wanted to say I don't know if you did, but now you've explained you didn't deliberately list just what you really think agricultural inspectors should do. And you really just listed what would be first in line for them to do, indeed. I just wanted to tell you when I read this to you what you said and I did read it because it's exactly, it's a text that was on veterinary days because last year where the deputy minister was, and she's one of the same signatories of this text, so this wasn't about veterinary inspectors, it was about official veterinarians and organizations. So, about the vets on the ground. I know it's hard for you to understand, and I appreciate what you're doing in your section, and I don't think any veterinarian could do it, and I would never fight for us to get into your life because we didn't finish anything that was related to wine, nothing that was related to horticulture, anything that was related to cereals. But what I'm talking about is a deputy minister, and it's a matter of fact that veterinarians get a chance to get an education and profession into that part of the story involving a cattle inspector. That's all. Because there's less and less work in the field. And one fact is that veterinarians care about animal health. Yes, that's true. But prevention and curative. But all we have as colleagues and what we've done before is that it's just as valuable as what ends up at the Agricultural or Agronomic College. There, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45605	Thank you. And another replica, Igor Chesek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45606	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade twilight, so I agree with you that the veterinary profession should be involved in the work of the cattle inspection, anyway. However, what I have to point out, and I have not succeeded in my debate, is also that, in all of these affairs, the inspections prescribed by this law should make a special regulation, i.e. the regulation which will be respected, i.e. what directions from, whether it is a Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek, the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb or the University of Higher Economic Affairs in the Križevci, which will be respected or have an advantage in the employment of such inspectors. Because we know for a fact that agriculture itself is a broad profession. There are also isotechnics and livestock and warfare and fruit growing and viticulture and winemaking. So some idea should be to take precedence in hiring an inspector in the area of agricultural inspection to have persons who have finished... or warring. I also say I support you in the fact that the cattle inspection should certainly include the Veterans Doctors. Because who knows better about animal health and welfare if it's not veterinarians or agricultural professions heading for livestock and isotechnics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45607	Thank you, too. Comrade twilight, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45608	Thank you very much. I completely agree with my colleague. It's real, and just with a little bit of goodwill, I think the deputy will try to adopt this. Indeed, because really when you look at the illogical work of a cattle inspector, you can perform a person who has completed pre-graduate work. I really didn't know what pre-graduate study it was, now I've asked around, it's a 3-year study. I'm sorry, I didn't know. I've been struggling the whole time, which means finishing pre-graduate studies, and okay, a graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate, and I've asked around. So it's a 3-year study again. And four years of work experience on proper jobs. That's exactly what you said, you should know where you are for what. But the thing is, Chief Inspector, look out, the Chief Inspector has been telling the same story for five years. And you can't insert one doctor of veterinary medicine, so who has an education let's say far more education than this that has an integrated study or I don't know pre-graduate study with his 6 years, field experience and this can be left. Here, I've been repeating again for years we've been pointing out that vets have been kicked out of this area. There was no law on it, and there was no will. And I personally hope that one day there will come a day that the Minister or Minister of Agriculture will be a doctor or a doctor of veterinary medicine. I hope so myself. Here's a colleague across from me, I'm sure he'd be as good a minister as a respected Minister Jakovina who's a agricultural, or agronomic profession, because as well as anyone who's on the ground knows the problems of what's important to us here, and that's development, that's a village, that's a country problem, that's a agricultural policy. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45609	Finally, here's the deputy minister here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45610	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to answer the questions that were asked and be brief. Namely, regarding the institution's facilities is 50 agricultural inspection facilities in the Republic of Croatia and 5 central departments. This system has existed since 2005 so I am sorry that there is no Mr. Assembly MP who has asked the question, but the system has been in place since 2005 and has been developing so that it was one of the criteria for closing chapters and functioning in this way for a long time. Regarding the application of the e-inspector, it is about the application and contracts which were completed in 2010 and all the problems which were in 2010 and 2011, of course they came in 2012 but we corrected it, set it up and the application applied successfully. It's a system that controls the presence of inspectors on the ground, the mileage they've made, the locations they visit, so there's one insight that's been done specifically on the ground as soon as possible. As regards the decision-making of an inspector on a violation of the law or whether it is legal or illegal that there have now been several objections. The law also passed the Law Office and the Legislative Committee no objections on this matter were disregarding the ZUP or anyone else so that this is in line with the provisions. About the health inspectors, everything's gonna be okay. He'll stay where he is. It's about the second law on official controls on food safety matters, so the sanitary inspectors are out of work, and we'll probably need more. About the number of inspectors, 96 employees, 17 still missing. The plan for this year is to hire seven inspectors to fill in. And now at the end of what remains for the end, a sentence that made me very sad as an agronomist so that veterinarians have a higher level of education. I don't want to talk about agronomies or what chapter 11, which was chapter 12. So Chapter 12 is Food and Veterinary Safety, Chapter 11 is Agriculture and Rural Development. The livestock inspection exists in the Republic of Croatia and the conditions for the livestock inspection from the draft state. These were criteria for closing chapters, people were educated, education was done, positive opinions were given, and I think that the cattle inspection, of course along with the veterinary inspection, made a huge part of the work related to both the control lists and the education, and that for this very reason there is a Law on livestock and the Veterinary Act is there a difference. I'm not professional in this, but I consider it professional but there are differences, chapter 11, I emphasize it on the agricultural chapter, 12 is the safety of food in which veterinarians have done a lot of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45611	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45612	Thank you very much. Ma'am, Madam Deputy Minister, I didn't want to make you sad and say that you don't have enough education or that one of the vets has more education than you do than I said and that stands, it's impossible that someone who has a three-year education has a higher degree of education experience and everything else than anyone who has 6 years of experience. So that's what I'm talking about all the time. And as far as I'm concerned, I know also chapters 11 and chapter 12, which I was just in that chapter in one part of the negotiating team. And here I pointed out that agronomists did a great job not only of inspection. But what I do now but I know that we will not succeed, I see that there is no way that there is simply a chance in this section that applies to professional conditions, and at least that you respect this Constitution that is set out in Article 55 says "everyone has the right to work and freedom of work that everyone freely chooses to call and hire, and every under equal conditions is available to every place and duty". And I think the doctors of veterinary medicine after six years of study and let's say four of these years for which they meet an integrated or three-year study on agrinomia have the same conditions if not greater. That's what I'm talking about, the same knowledge, competences because during the study they listen to even some more semesters than they listen to in those three years, and that's only six semesters. And that's what I've been talking about and again I really appreciate the interest of agronomists and people who have graduated from agriculture and forestry, of course I was talking about them the other day here, but here I know it's clear to me it's a lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45613	Time. Thank you. Another replica of Igor Chesek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45614	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I'll be more specific with the question I hope you'll give me an answer. Since I've been working in the profession, I've had contact with both sanitary inspectors and agricultural inspectors, and it's done in terms of reducing the number of sanitary inspectors and increasing the number of agricultural inspectors. What exactly am I interested in? I'm interested in specifically why a sample of corn came in and took a sample of corn to increase the aflatoxin content. What I'm particularly interested in is who's going to be doing this job now? Sanitary inspector or agricultural inspector? Therefore, if the work is to be carried out by the agricultural inspector, the scope of the activities of the sanitary inspectors shall be reduced. Now I expect a concrete answer from you what will happen to these sanitary inspectors if they reduce their volume of business. Here and in advance, thank you for your response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45615	Here are the deputies from the place, from the place you answer. Turn on the microphone and please respond from the site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45616	Here, thank you. So it's about the difference exactly from this, that's one of the reasons why the roof law was made. So, I'll do it again. When agricultural inspectors or even citizens before, they wanted to see what a certain inspector was doing, they had to look at 17 laws. means take 17 laws and go watch. Now it unites in one place. As regards primary production, this is checked by the inspector in agriculture. A related to the processing and related to food production, e.g. Then as soon as it comes to food and as far as it comes to processing, that's when the health inspector comes. And in combination, it means, if there's a primary production and processing in some economy, then there's both the inspector and the other inspector, and there's a difference that's done by one, which is done by the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45617	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45618	Final draft law on agricultural inspections, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 428. The amendment was submitted by a representative of the Đurjica Sumrak. I ask the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Mrs. Snowyan, to declare the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45619	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary MPs and MPs of the amendment are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45620	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45621	For the reasons that the duties of the livestock inspector may be carried out by a person who has completed a higher education and who is trained, or specialised in the work in different areas of livestock production. At the same time, according to the applicable Law on cattle farming, a graduate engineer of agrinomy, general or livestock orientation, and additionally during the negotiations concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, has not been able to take note of the professional competence of livestock inspectors who exercise supervision in the field of livestock farming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45622	I thank the Deputy Minister. My colleagues, Miss Sumrak, is not in the assembly. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment of my colleague, the twilight that the government does not accept. Who's in? No one. The amendment didn't go through. And I'm closing the debate and I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that, unanimously, 85 votes for the adoption of the Agricultural Inspectorate Act are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45623	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Act on specific conditions for placing flour on the market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 430; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Minister, do you want an introduction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45624	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Mss of Parliament MPs and gentlemen of Parliament. The law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market was adopted in 2004 on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to combat the grey economy in the area of the mill-peker industry. The entry into force of this Act established the Register of mills, bakers, manufacturers, intended mixtures and concentrates as well as the Register of importers of flour intended for use and concentrate. The reason for the proposed amendment of the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour for the market is to level the conditions for domestic and European flour producers. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union of flour legally placed on the market in the European Union does not need to be marked with records. Thus, even so far, flour importers would no longer be required to mark the quantities of flour imported from the European market with registration stamps. In order to avoid our domestic flour producers coming into an unequal position, it is proposed to amend the Law and abolish the obligation to mark flour with stamps and importers as well as domestic millers. The Law Amendment Initiative was given by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Zito Community. In view of the fact that, following the entry into the European Union, the provisions on the obligation to mark flour with registration stamps cannot be applied to flour placed on the market in the Member States, so that domestic flour producers would be placed in an unequal position, excuse me, in relation to producers from the immediate surroundings of Hungary, Slovenia and Austria. For the purpose of borrowing and retaining the positive effects of the Act on the milling and bakery sector, it will continue to remain an obligation to ensure the traceability of flour, the recording of production, the reporting of the Ministry of Production. However, what is positive is a significant reduction in the fiscal burden, as the adoption of the proposed Law intends to maintain positive effects but also to simplify inspection supervision along with this Agricultural Inspection Act and with a significant reduction in the burdens so far to producers of flour due to the issue and cost of the issue of registration marks. So flour producers are abolished by this Act and one of the existing costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45625	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister with his associates. Here I will talk today about the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market with the Final Proposal of the Law. I'd say my competences are, say, equal to the agricultural inspector on the line of slaughter. Now, I'm a little bit headed into this right now, and I think I'm going to be competent to talk about it right now, but do I really know the essence of it, the distinguished pronouncessary here. We believe in the Club that this bill is as good as the proposals of the Law adopted in 2004, 05 and 2009 because they were all adopted for the purpose of curbing the grey economy. Similarly, at the time of the smooth state of the market, flour did not identify the actual production and sales volumes of the product as well as the incorrect demonstration of the consumption of raw materials in the production of bakery products were the conditions which resulted in illegal earnings and caused the loss of budget revenue. During 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then the competent minister were in the grip of the disorderly state of the market in flour and bakery products, seeking to ensure fair competition in the flour and flour products market. But also to prevent the grey economy that has been mirrored in this sector through VAT unsecured and non-payment, non-recognition of profits, in short through the gray economy. The adoption of the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market of flour and flour is subject to the control of the system of monitoring the issued, used registration marks. So as the ultimate result, we were able to determine the consumption of wheat and the quantities of flour obtained and thus the total turnover of the same. The amendments to the Law that followed during 2005 gave us detailed standards of consumption of flour for all bakery products resulting in a reduction of the grey zone in the economy, in a tightly connected area of bakery. In addition, the register of mills, bakers, manufacturers of intended mixtures and concentrates has been established, as well as the Register of importers of flour and intended mixtures and concentrates. Amendments to the 2009 Act have established the obligation of importers of flour, intended mixtures and concentrates which were not mandatory under the applicable law to submit reports of imported quantities of flour, that they are obliged to deliver the same for the reasons of compliance of the quantities of flour recorded from imports with the records of stamps issued. All of these resulted in the creation of order on the market for flour. Provisions on the obligation to mark flour with stamps would lead to Croatia being an equal member of the European Union at the moment and by opening the European market for our domestic producers in an unequal position. Removing the obligation to mark flour with stamps will ensure a level playing field for our domestic production. In addition, the obligation of the producer of flour and of a legal or natural person using flour for the production and preparation of products in which the system enters flour to ensure traceability implies that all entities in this chain must ensure monitoring throughout all phases. In other words, it is necessary to ensure traceability towards suppliers of raw materials, internal traceability of raw materials and semi-products and traceability to the buyer and all of this and in this law contributes to food safety. What we would possibly say in the club, but we have been warning this all along about the urgency of the adoption of most laws, especially those that are not PZE, but since this law in the original form has only 14 articles and now these 14 are limited to 13 articles, I assume that according to the new Rules of Procedure, a whole new law should be done where they are not amended and complemented, but simply cleansed law. I hope that, in that sense, the respected Rules of Procedure and the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45627	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDSSB club Igor Czech. Here you go, pal, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45628	Thank you, Vice President. Respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture. The HDSSB club will also support this law because we believe that this bill is good, but for the reason that the previous law was good, and we believe that it has obtained results and introduced order into the flour market and in the very explanation it says how many inspections have been carried out, how much funds have been brought into the state budget. However, what I am particularly interested in, I have two or three questions again, you said that the fiscal burden of the flour manufacturer is reduced. Well, that one flour stamp, I think it's gonna cost me seven lips or 0.7 lips, and one flour stamp can go for a 50-pound package. If the price of kilograms of flour is in the wholesale sale 2 kuna means a bag of flour of 50 kg costs 100 kuna and a stamp of 0.07 lime. So the fiscal burden is not so great that it should be mentioned in this bill. What I am interested in is another thing, Article 5(2) says the Minister responsible for agricultural affairs will prescribe the minimum amount of flour that can be obtained from the milling wheat of standard quality, rye and corn, the maximum amount of flour used to produce certain bakeries and other products, as well as how to document product traceability, how to keep records of production and how the ministries are reported. So, with traceability, I absolutely agree and that's a good thing that all producers need to respect. However, how the minister and what regulation will prescribe the quantities of flour that can be obtained with the milling wheat of standard quality. What's standard quality? The hectolitre mass, we can understand and understand it, but every mill that understands itself in milling knows that each mill has a different caressing and that each technologist about to add a certain amount of water while grinding. Is this one element that can lead to negative consequences, or a grey economy? Does each baker clearly have to have prescribed how much flour will he spend for one bacon? So we know that one bacon or bread consists not only of flour but also of water and additives and everything else that belongs to it. These are things that again in this bill are not clear to me, they are not defined, and here's the HDSSB club will support this law, but it's eager to wait and please when the rule comes out to deliver it to me because you'd really like to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45629	Thank you. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you in your presentation, and did you notice that because you've been sitting with us for a few days now, while we were in the European Union, we were here at night, and then we were also at about 8-9 discussing important laws relating to agriculture, so we discussed a series of laws between 9 and 10 o'clock in the evening when nobody else is alive just watching, but it doesn't even matter if people are watching but it's important interest and parliamentary representatives and understanding, and you know how it's done? It's what you do to get some things through the end. So it's at the meetings that what you want to go through is that throw the commercial last point, 25 points of the agenda, this is the 26th, and when no one else has the power, everybody raises their hands. I think that if we continue this way while we are already here in the EU to discuss agriculture and all the laws relevant to the life of farmers, but also important for the lives of Croats and Croats and all those who live in this Croatia, it will not be good if we keep talking about such important laws, I am not just talking about flour now, but I am talking about those laws and before we debated those late hours. There, that was my replica on yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45631	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45632	Thank you, Vice President. I said not about your last name, but because I really felt that this was the dawn of the saga of Croatian agriculture. This was not about you, of course, but about everything that happens in Croatian agriculture. However, to return specifically to the Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market. What does import mean? What does export mean? So, if we remove the stamps we help our flour producers export it out of the Republic of Croatia. But also let us not interfere with the mind and help the import lobby import flour from the EU into the Republic of Croatia without any record. So now let's be realistic and make a certain conclusion. Who's going to profit in the whole story? Croatian millers or European millers. There are stamps, why don't the importers still stick their stamps on that flour. The stamps I know don't say the price of flour, it's not a brand like a pack of cigarettes. Here's what we have today, or these days, abolished the price on the cigarette boxes. So again, I say again, we'll back up the law anyway, but on that flour stamp, it doesn't say what the price of flour is. That's why I don't see why they should be lifted. Follow-up will not bring as good results as the flour stamps have brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45633	Thank you. I must admit that I did not understand the import from the EU to Croatia, but well. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. So now the electronic media is going or not. Oh, well, we'll do that tomorrow. Then we'll do it tomorrow so we won't be at peace. Thank you for your patience. Thank you, Deputy Minister with your associates. And tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-04-0.u45634	Final draft law amending the Act on specific conditions for placing flour on the market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 430. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that, unanimously with 85 votes, the Law amending the law on special conditions for placing flour on the market in the text was adopted as proposed by the applicant.
