ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u26821	And now the word has been requested by the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u26822	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's today's March 21st and Mediterranean Day. At its 3rd plenary session in Morocco in 2008, the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Revolution of the Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean for Inter-Civilisation Dialogue and Human Rights, marking the Mediterranean Day on this day of March 21st in all national parliaments of the member states of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. The Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly brings together 26 member states that have equal rights in the assembly, which consider political, social, economic and cultural issues and make decisions of direct importance for all countries in the region. The objective of the Parliamentary Assembly is to promote political dialogue, promote cultural and economic cooperation, deepen democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights and develop dialogue between cultures, civilizations and regions. The basic mission of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly is to gather representatives of Mediterranean states to establish cooperation, political dialogue and mutual understanding. During the short period, the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly has established itself as an important actor in the parliamentary diplomacy of our region. This year, the Governing Board of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly decided to dedicate the day of Mediterranean women's role in regional development to strengthen the importance of women's role and equal rights in modern and open society. Gender equality and the role of women in society have been among the priorities of the Third Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly since the beginning. The President of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, Francesco Maria Amoro, has therefore called on all national parliaments to initiate today's Mediterranean Day marking in line with their parliamentary activities and opportunities to support and strengthen the position of women at all levels of society. The Committee on Gender Equality has therefore prepared a brief assessment of the situation of women in Croatia. However, what we should say at the beginning, I would point out that despite the fact that we are talking about the role of women in regional development, and Croatia has a strategy for the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, there is no mention of women in this Strategy of Regional Development. Gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status and equal opportunities to achieve all rights as well as the same benefit of the results achieved. It's back in '96. The Commission for Equality Issues as the government's advisory body was established in the year. In 2001, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament was established, in 2003, the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality, and 2004. Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Gender equality thus becomes one of the most important values of our country's constitutional order in 2000. Four national gender equality policies have been adopted. In 2003, the first Law on Gender Equality was passed, and in 2008 a new law as well as the Law on Discretion of Discrimination of Discrimination was passed. Despite a number of laws, policies and strategies adopted with the aim of achieving equality and established institutional mechanisms, women still face specific difficulties today. The most important indicators of women's unequal position remain in their most unfavourable position in the labour market, sub-representation in the process of making political and public decisions, the frequency of various forms of violence against women, including domestic violence with the continuity of gender stereotypes, as well as increasingly high economic violence. Women are both the majority and minorities, the majority by participation in the population, but minorities in many important aspects of economic and political life. In the Republic of Croatia, women account for 51.7% of the population. In 2010, women accounted for 60% of doctors in medicine, teachers in primary schools were 85%, in secondary schools 65, in colleges 47. However, among regular professors, 27.4% are women to outstanding professors 40.5, docents 46%, and assistant is 54.4%. Among the students who enrolled in 2011 study 57.3% are women, 60.1% are women, masters 55.6%, doctor of science 51.1% of women. The share of women among unemployed according to the latest data from February 2013 from HZZ is 52.4%, the share of female pensions in men's salaries is 77.5%, and the share of women's salaries in men's salaries is 90%. In 2010 there were as many as 70.1% of women among the judges of municipal courts, 72.5% of the judges of the criminal courts, 67% of the judges of commercial courts, 57% of the judges of the county courts, 50% of the judges of the Supreme Court, and 38.5% of the judges of the Constitutional Court are women. However, among the presidents of the county courts, only 20% of women, the municipality's 59%, the trade 43, and the violations 64. As for women in political power, only 19.9% of MPs were elected in the last parliamentary elections, yet up to 26% of women in parliament today, thanks to the transition of elected deputies to executive power. 21.9% of women were elected in the last local elections for members of the county assemblies, among members of the councils of the cities 21.4% and the council of 15.5% of women. The mayor is 5%, the mayor is 4.7% and the mayor is 4.9%. And this is exactly what I'm using to warn all of you, given that we have local elections ahead, I would like to warn you of the need to respect the Gender Equality Act, which requires political parties and other elected voters of the electoral lists to make a list for representative bodies at the elections of all levels of taking care of women and men's balanced representation, or that no sex is less than 40%. I believe that despite the government's view that it is not necessary to respect the Law on Gender Equality right now in this year's local elections, we will consciously seek that women's representation is as high as possible, because from this information, it is evident that women behave very high duties, in most cases very demanding jobs, that they make a significant contribution to the creation of a better and more equal Croatian society. I would also take the opportunity to point out that today is March 21st and International Day for Combating Race Discrimination. Given that the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly promotes and respect for fundamental human rights, I will look briefly at the data on this issue. Since the beginning of 2009, when the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination began to date, every third complaint to the Ombudsman against discrimination has been about racial discrimination. Since 503 complaints received in 2011, even 174 of them have been based on forms of discrimination, and the Ombudsman warned on the occasion that data from other sources also speak of the very widespread spread of racial discrimination in Croatian society, particularly about discrimination against Roma, Serbian and other minorities. Discrimination arises as such through racist statements in public space especially on internet portals, on sports events, and through various actions of individuals and institutions that make it impossible for many citizens daily to participate equally in social life solely because of race, ethnicity, skin color, i.e. of national origin. The Ombudsman's Office notes that racial discrimination can only be effectively curbed by the simultaneous use of legal mechanisms of protection and the raising of awareness and knowledge of the non-acceptability of racist, xenophobic and other views based solely on prejudice. They remind citizens that in the event of discrimination for aid, they can address the Ombudsman, and the relevant institutions are calling for them to continue to work to combat discrimination, especially through education for fundamental human rights. The Office of the Public Prosecutor as a central body for the prevention of discrimination reminds that in Croatia discrimination is prohibited by the Constitution, by many international contracts such as the UN International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, and certainly all possible Croatian laws. Under the International Convention, racial discrimination means any distinction, exclusion, restriction and giving of championships for race, colour, ancestors, national or ethnic origin with the purpose of destroying or jeopardising recognition, enjoyment or conduct under equal conditions of human rights and fundamental freedoms to political, economic or social and cultural fields or in any other field of public life. The Ombudsman’s Office also notes that discrimination is based on race, ethnicity and skin color, i.e. National origin prohibited and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination allowing victims to complain about discrimination and, as such, to initiate court proceedings. Here was a few minutes just for the reason that today we remind ourselves of where we live and how much more we need to work on strengthening equality and equality on all our issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u26823	Thank you, dear colleague Tyrelli. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our session. We will discuss - The decision to withdraw members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from the United Nations Peace Mission at the United Nations (UNDOF) – the confirmation of the decision to confirm the Croatian Assembly has been submitted by the President of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection, and civil servants and subsistence in peace operations and other activities abroad. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the report at the session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? He wants Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Vishny Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35082	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. As you all know, the Croatian Parliament made a decision in 2011 on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the United Nations Peace Mission, and that decision provided that up to 110 members of the Armed Forces would participate in the Golanska Supreme in the framework of the UNDOF peacekeeping operation. In the Peace Mission at Golanska visorna in the last rotation, which began on 22 and 29 November 2012, 97 of our members were sent. The continued monitoring of the security situation has led to operational knowledge that members of the Armed Forces after the events at the Golan High School are subject to significantly higher risks and therefore, in order to prevent exposure and possible executions, it is estimated that our Peace Mission from the Golan High School should be withdrawn before the term of office is completed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations and activities abroad is prescribed that in such situations the President of the Republic may decide on the immediate withdrawal of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia if they are exposed to executions. Following that legal mandate, the President of the Republic made a decision on the withdrawal of our members from the peacekeeping mission on 1 March 2013, and was tasked by the Minister of Defence, or the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces. In accordance with Article 11(4) of the Law, on 1 March the President sent this House a letter stating the decision to confirm the Croatian Parliament, and it is presently in front of you today. What I would like to emphasise is that at the moment when the President of the Republic made a decision to withdraw our members, a security assessment was made, in which the plan for withdrawing our members with possible time. I would also like to stress that during this time period it was not only dependent on the ability and ability of the Croatian military, but also simply depends on the protocols that we were obliged to respect for our allies in the peace operation and also respect the protocols of the United Nations in which the entire mission took place. In the media you could already, you had a chance to read that the extraction operation itself lasted six days. It was extremely good we must also emphasize it here organised. We sent a predecessor to the head of two high-ranking Croatian military officers who were in charge of the very organisation of extraction. The entire organization lasted 12 days. On Sunday 17th of this month, our members took down all the rules of the profession, meaning the Croatian flag from the mast of the UNDOF Peace Operation. And as you know, the 18th were happily returned to the Republic of Croatia all 97. On this occasion, I would also like to stress that we have been extremely helped by our allies not only in the organisation but also in understanding the reasons why the Republic of Croatia decided to make such a decision and withdraw from the operation at Golanska visorna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35083	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35084	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's not much to discuss, although I'd like to say a few words, actually, I'm going to ask the Deputy Minister to refer to some texts in the paper. First of all, I want to say that the HDZ Club will confirm this decision to withdraw our forces from the Golan. Therefore, since the withdrawal is due to an increased security risk for members of our contingents, and since they have already been returned to Croatia on 18 this month, it is normal for us to support the decision. This is the first time since the Armed Forces took part in peacekeeping missions, since the 1990s, that the President of the Republic of Croatia is using this possibility to withdraw our members. In this mission where the Republic of Austria, India, Japan and the Philippines were still in our hands, so the United Nations. We can read in the media that the Republic of Croatia is no longer so interested in missions under the auspices of the United Nations, i.e. to be precise that budget deficits are actually one of the reasons perhaps more important than safety and risk. Because the army itself goes where the risk of security and peace is threatened, etc., to sort of prevent it. So, I'd like to ask Mrs. Deputy here to deny this to us for the sake of our public. To say once again the reasons for the withdrawal of our forces, and personally, therefore this is not in the name of the club, I am pleased that our 97 members have returned home because I think that this means that we will be able to save what I think is primarily for the RH Armed Forces, so in the frameworks of the Republic of Croatia we will raise to a higher level of development in technological and in any other sense in which we are now in the deficit. So once again, the HDZ club supports the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35085	Thank you. It is up to the HNS Club and counterpart Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35086	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mrs. Tafra. At first, I would like to point out that the HNS club will support the decision to withdraw members of the Armed Forces from the UN Peace Mission (UNDOF) at the Golan High School. Recently in the Croatian Parliament, we voted in the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan on the ISAF mission and the NFOR peacekeeping operations in Somalia and KFOR in Kosovo. We in HNS are convinced of the importance and necessity of Croatian engagement in international military missions under the leadership of the UN and NATO. Participation in peace operations is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world, as well as strengthening the security of its own country. On 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the NATO alliance. All MPs voted for this decision except for one person. All MPs except for this one person, regardless of the political party or option, were then aware of the historic moment of entry into the most significant military-political alliance in the world. At that moment, they were aware of the responsibility for the true, real safety of Croatia, that is, its citizens and citizens. The primary function of each country is to ensure a safe life for its citizens and citizens. Citizens consciously transferred some of their freedoms to the state to be returned to them by security. That's what the citizens gave the state and only its right to a repressive apparatus, for the internal security of the police, for the foreign army. I would like to reiterate that military security for Croatian citizens is certainly not the same as for citizens of other NATO members or EU citizens. Croatia is the only one of all NATO member states and all EU members that has passed through its immediate history bloody, imposed a long-standing defence war on her. That makes us all, or at least the vast majority, particularly sensitive to the country's security and military issues at all. Along with these unfortunate war events, Croatia unfortunately has true experiences of war, and the Croatian Army has created its foundations during the Homeland War. There are still fresh memories of infidelity and fear in these first moments of attack on Croatia, all refugees of Croatian citizens, massive shelling, destruction of our cities and villages. It must mean something completely different to the citizens of any NATO or EU member. During communication with other members and participation in international security missions since 2002, Croatia has managed to obtain the recognition of all NATO members through its efforts and certain significant political institutional progress and certainly because of its invaluable unique military experience and has become a full 28 NATO member in 2009. This far-sighted decision by almost all members of the then Croatian Parliament allowed Croatia to participate in all discussions, on all aspects of the world's security policy sitting at the same table with all other NATO members with the most developed countries in the world. As small as Croatia seems, it became a factor in world security, protecting itself. NATO's alliance is a political defence-military alliance of 28 countries that contains provisions on the protection of common civilization and cultural values, the protection of human rights and freedoms with its strict rules. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The North Atlantic Treaty provides a provision that says an attack on one NATO member means an attack on all other members. By entering NATO's full membership, Croatia probably has long provided stability and peace for its citizens. And stability and peace are son qua non of any progress. By joining NATO, and especially by entering the EU, Croatia through the framework of security and stability finally gets such an important prerequisite and opportunity for unhindered long-term development. But by entering these associations it is certainly not the end but only one of the beginnings of a faster and more stable development of Croatia's state and society. Croatia also assumes completely other responsibilities and tasks in a security sense not only for itself but also for its own region and beyond. We Liberals believe that no one should be indifferent to other people's suffering regardless of where the part of the world is the person, or people who suffer. It is important in liberals how people live today in Burkina Faso, Myanmar, Sudan, Afghanistan, Lebanon. The right to security is the right that our country is obliged to provide. It's compared to the so-called. external threats are caused by the establishment and development of the Armed Forces. In any event, it should be noted other than the benefits arising from the participation of the Armed Forces in UN-led peacekeeping operations and the EU-NATO, which relate to the establishment of peace, security, high standards of human rights democratisation and civil freedoms, benefiti are from permanent communication with other armies and soldiers, and in the exchange of experiences and technologically operational innovation among members of these countries. This is where technological and command experience of the Croatian Army is developed according to the world's highest standards. As head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am in permanent contact with fellow NATO parliamentarians but with various NATO operatives separated to political personnel. All, especially soldiers, point out the unusually high quality and professionality of our soldiers in all peacekeeping operations, especially in the AjSAF peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, the KFOR peace operation in Kosovo, and also the UN Peace Mission in the Golan High. Such a maximum professional approach to carrying out tasks within NATO United Nations makes the Croatian state a serious and responsible member of the international community, and this certainly helps in the overall development of both the international community and Croatia itself. I would like to stress, among other things, that the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly thanks to all members of the delegation is one of the semi-permanent communication, as well as the promotion of Croatian views and policies among members of the parliaments of other NATO members. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in those missions contributes to the reputation of Croatia in the world, but also increases military preparedness and raises the professionalism of the Croatian Army and thus raises the level of security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But as it is known, there has been a controversial situation related to the New York Times' inscriptions that said that Croatia is violating the arms embargo to Syrian opposition forces. Croatia has officially denied allegations and speculations from the New York Times but has been estimated to be the basis of these inscriptions and their spread in other world and domestic media significantly worsened the security situation of members of the Armed Forces of the UN's Andof Peace Mission at the Golan High School. It has been concluded that our soldiers are exposed to significant risks, and in order to prevent exposure to possible executions, it is estimated that our soldiers, 97 of them, need to be withdrawn from the Andof peace mission. The President of the Republic has made the stated decision that we, in the House, need to confirm by the law and by the Constitution. On Monday, we witnessed the happy return of our soldiers, all of whom arrived happily in Zagreb. On this occasion, on behalf of the CNS, I would like to congratulate everyone who participated in the operation of extracting our soldiers on a successful action. It certainly was not simple and certainly required great organisational, technical, intelligence, logistics, and other skills. This is another special experience that Croatian Armed Forces gained by participating in international missions. Thanks to all the abilities of our soldiers, the operation has been completely successful. And as I said at the beginning of the Croatian People's Party club, the Liberal Democrats will support the decision to withdraw members of the RS Armed Forces from the UN peacekeeping mission, the Andof of Golan High.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35087	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDSSB representative Igor Čeek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35088	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are facing today's decision to withdraw members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia from the UN Peace Mission at the Golan High. Yeah, our boys, our soldiers, they came home happily. Thank God that's how it is, and I congratulate them for coming alive and healthy, and I wish them a lot more success and a lot of those, that is, a lot less mission, but to return with each one to their homes healthy and happy. First of all, I have to say that we at the HDSSB Club welcome and support this decision to withdraw our troops. If their safety is threatened, we surely need to make such decisions so that they can withdraw, or happily return home. The Croatian Army is today effective thanks to the great experience it experienced and lived through the Homeland War thanks to our defenders and thanks to this same Croatian army today we have had a free, independent and particularly safe country of Croatia. It is this Croatian army today that participates in various peacekeeping missions for the safety of its citizens and for the safety of citizens around the world. In the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia, sent by the Parliament, it said that since the worsening security situation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia at the UN Peace Mission in Golan High, and that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are subject to significantly greater risks, in order to prevent exposure to possible executions, it was assessed that they should be withdrawn from the peacekeeping mission. The score is excellent, let them retreat and thank you this way and all those who participated in the withdrawal of our soldiers from the Golan High. And once again, I wish them a lot of success in further work and good luck to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35089	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Representatives Club, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35090	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed deputies, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Labour Party will support the decision to withdraw our armed forces from the UN Peace Mission at the Golan High, but we will say a few words about it anyway. In the light of the decision, it is stated that the decision itself is made to prevent exposure to a possible death. So let's be honest, wherever the possibility of death is fought there is, in the end, if we honestly have our strength in Afghanistan, over 400 members of the international force have died over the last year, and let's say in these tragic events in Syria 70,000 people died in 2 years, there was no danger, there was no direct threat to our members. Therefore, this assessment itself is due to the deaths wherever the war is for me is already a little questionable and more inclined to believe in what and what a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club was saying but also what the media are saying was the main motive of financial nature. Since both the president of the country and the president have sharply denied these inscriptions that have appeared in the media, which I think all my predecessors have already mentioned. It's just up to us and finally our soldiers have already come to Croatia. It's just for us to confirm this decision and to find that by making this decision, 35 million kuna was released at an annual level that I can just remind myself of the debate of the other day we can use for demining, let's say we can use it to increase the salary here Professor Kregar is there, so I'll tell the professors, but I'm afraid that since today there's a debate on budget rebalancing that these 35 million kunas will be part of this story or simply not be for anyone to increase or even demining what we mentioned. Press reports that Croatia's weapons ended up in Syria on the wrong side. I hope it wasn't directly on our side. You don't need to be fooled. All countries in the world that produce weapons or which have it on a lager, so for certain reasons they want to get rid of these weapons for the purchase of potentially newer weapons, they are reselling them. I only hope warmly that in our people who did this on behalf of Croatia, there was enough wisdom and maturity to know what they were doing and who they were working with. I can only ask the government if it might have been some kind of trade of ours that all the other countries in the world are doing. Therefore, it is not necessary to flee, which some of our competitors may have sniffed, sniffed, and, in order to prevent us or to make their trade, some of our interests have launched a campaign through the media. If so, we need to ask ourselves how our ministry is doing that in a more subtle way. Such things are not something that should be allowed to appear in the media. Thank you very much and once again I only repeat that Croatian Labourists will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35091	We're moving on to an individual debate. First up is a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35092	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Of course I'll vote for this confirmation. I accept the absolute reasons cited by the president of the Republic of Croatia and the commander-in-chief, Mr. Josipovic. Because, of course, it's known that these decisions are made by the state. These decisions that are very often sensitive, which we don't have enough data on, so I dare say that sometimes we don't have to, but the decision is at the top of the state, the decision is on the government and the Supreme Commander, and I support that decision. Namely, if we had lost one human life and one soldier then, of course, the sole responsibility would be those who could decide on it, those who could decide so first of all, the President of the Republic of Croatia. There are responsibilities on them, there's responsibility on him, they've decided, he's made up his mind, and I think we should accept that. I believe the decision will also be unanimous in the Croatian Parliament. For me, it is also an important explanation which says that the Allies understood this Decision, which is a very important finding because of the fact that Croatia should and should be proud to point out it participates in many peace operations. We must be extremely proud that here we are on our short journey when we look at other countries, other countries, other nations, other nations and events in their history we can conclude that in Croatia history happened here in 20 years, just over 20 years. The history that has been happening to other nations and countries for centuries. So, we have achieved all our historical goals and the independence, the construction of the state, the defence, the release, but also one of the country's extremely important goals, the Republic of Croatia has been to enter international institutions such as the UN and all other and NATO and, of course, the EU that we will achieve on July 1st of this year. So we have achieved one particularly important goal, to join NATO. So the goal here 15 years ago seemed almost unattainable. From the land of the recipient to the hard years of war, we have grown into a country that itself helps to preserve and build peace. It's not that long ago. I believe that in this assembly too many remember those days and with some personal and own experience when the International Peace Corps kept peace in the Republic of Croatia. I had the honour of participating with the President of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Franjo Tudjman, his visit to the organization of the peace forces and General Klein in Vukovar at the time while the peace forces kept there peace. And I know how valuable it was and how remarkable the contribution of the peace forces was to make that visit, but that in the end, on 15 January 1998, Croatian Vukovar and the renewal were returned to the constitutional legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So, it was only '98, and here we are today talking about the participation of our soldiers in peace operations. Of course, those who make decisions should never fall for the speculation but rather make decisions in line with the information they have in the best interests of the state and in the best interest of this case the soldiers involved in the peace operation. So I support this decision, I will vote for it. Just in the end, I'd like to warn you of one detail. Namely, the president of the Republic of Croatia and the commander-in-chief, referring this letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament, indicated that he designated only Minister Ante Kotromanović as his representative to participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament. It's this little detail that I'm warning you, it would be good if the minister were here today, but certainly all relevant information I believe we can get from his deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35093	Thank you very much. And the final word of the Deputy Minister of Mrs. Vishnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35094	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank all of you who will support this decision, which today is at hand in front of this House of Commons, as well as to answer the parliamentary representatives who have asked some questions regarding the decision-making process. The question of whether the security reasons were the only reason for the withdrawal of our members of the armed forces from the Golan High, the answer is yes. It was definitely the security reasons that made us decide to withdraw. In addition to this, the report received by the President of the Republic before the decision was made, and I will tell you from it what I can tell you. So over the month of February, there were 9 serious incidents in the area of responsibility of the Austrian Army, there were 2 serious incidents in the area of responsibility of the Filipino Army, and also occurred during February and 3 incidents in the area of responsibility of the Croatian Army Company. Our soldiers at that time were exposed to weapons confiscation and after that, a decision was made to withdraw. As you yourself had the opportunity to see after a decision on the withdrawal of our members had been made, there was even an event where members of the UN had been kidnapped and taken in that period since the time of the President's decision to withdraw until the moment our members came to the Republic of Croatia. I think that's definitely enough security reason and the basis that the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister had at the time when they made the decision to withdraw. The question of whether it's because of money, the answer to peace missions isn't reason. In the budget of the Republic of Croatia, 266 million were provided for participation activities according to a decision on the participations made by this House of Commons. And currently the Republic of Croatia has 20 members in UN peacekeeping operations. In India, Pakistan 9, Cyprus 2, Western Sahara 6, Liberia 2 and Lebanon 1, that's a total of 20 people. The question is further raised that for Croatia more participation in UN missions is not interesting, I think the answer should be taken from the fact that such thinking would primarily not be appropriate because this will forget all that the UN and we do not want to do for the Republic of Croatia by sending peacemakers to the Republic of Croatia when the Republic of Croatia was exposed to aggression. On the other hand, that the Republic of Croatia has the right to decide on its own in which peace operations will participate, which means for the credibility of the Republic of Croatia itself, and just as its members of the armed forces receive in these peace operations through exercise, training, I think it is the decision of the one proposing to this High House in which the peace operations of the Republic of Croatia will participate. And we also need to be aware of what Mrs Kosor has pointed out that the Croatian Republic of 1.7 will also have the opportunity to participate actively if such a decision is also taken by EU-led peace operations. I think that's why I'm still in charge of Mrs. Kosor, which is the apology of Minister Kotromanovic that he couldn't attend this session at 9.30, so that was why I'm here instead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35095	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the motion to make a decision when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35096	The decision to withdraw members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from the UN peacekeeping mission at the UNDOF certification. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision confirming the President of the Republic's decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 121 votes for the decision to confirm the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the withdrawal of members of the Armed Forces from the UN peacekeeping mission at the Golan High.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35097	And we move on to - Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 226. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to present the opening statement? Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35098	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, before you there is the final bill of amendments and additions to the Code of Breakdown. I've said it before, but I'll do it again with some new numbers. The reasons for the adoption of this law are primarily a major increase in the number of infringement cases. The second is actually the increase in the backlogs that are constantly occurring. The third is bad law enforcement, so it's bad and it's bad for those penalties to be imposed. One information that is fascinating and concerning the same law and that we change that the average of countries in the Council of Europe, therefore, which are members of the Council of Europe, is about 2300 violations per 100,000 inhabitants. There's so much inflow in the courts. And we have over 7 grand. So that tells us how much we may have overstretched this branch and the law deals with the team. So, what I've already said I'm just going to brief. The very important thing is precisely because of this data narrowing down the definition of a violation. And that's something we all have to work on and insist on. We simply have to have less breaking provisions. Whether or not we're going to get to codification in the perspective, so we're going to put them all in one place like the Penal Code. We're going to see that. But at this point, over 700 laws contain misdemeanor provisions. So they're measured in thousands. And it's a flood of standards that no system can actually fight as it is now set up. Another thing very important, the introduction of an institute of insignificant violation. So that's what we've got in the crime scene, and now we're finally bringing him in, and we're bringing him in. Absurd was that you mean you had a criminal offence that was treated insignificantly due to special circumstances, and you didn't have it in the case of a felony. The next thing you know, there's an increase in the activity of the DAs. For example, not for example, but in practice, the courts are now exposed to the problem that the prosecutor, so the police or any other body, write down the application and deliver the court and then the court must, for example, establish an address. And he's setting it up so he's asking that same body for the address and he's going back. Now the D.A. has to establish it. The principle of opportunity and, in particular, the conditional opportunity to be introduced, that is to say, the link between the withdrawal from prosecution if the perpetrator commits certain obligations. For example, remove the consequences of your offense or do something like that. Also, an institute we knew in some other branches and we didn't have it in the infractions and it's very important. One thing that is technical but we are now introducing for the first time the obligation to determine the flat-rate costs for the second-degree procedure. So whoever goes to appeal if he succeeds won't pay anything, if he doesn't succeed will pay the cost. We know that again in other segments of the law, we didn't have it in violation. The system of forced collection is being reformed. What's important is that we go to the cash collection, we introduce work for the general good, and only an extremely sophisticated prison. So that's what we've been talking about so far, but this is a very, very important change for us. Through these are the discounts that have been discussed, so I won't repeat them now, but I know there's been a lot of debate but I'll tell you the discounts like we're introducing identically has France, there's Slovenia, there's Germany, there's a whole bunch of other countries. So this is something that is actually taking good practice to other countries where it works. The register, the register, differs in something, we'll go with the amendment, I'll say right now, so we're introducing this register of outstanding penalties, but because of the questions raised on the Justice Committee about, say, concessions, public tenders, etc., now we leave it primarily for traffic, driving and traffic permits and the rest can be prescribed by other laws. The idea is that the register works, when we can allow it to be said that it is fully functional we can expand further. Finally, we're also introducing a work for the common good in the offence. So far it wasn't really arranged, and I'm saying it's a very important segment. What we have changed in relation to the first reading concerns antiquity. So in principle, it's four years old, not what we suggested in the first draft of 3+1 but 4, and in certain parts, so it's 3 years in the milder ones. It's a very important thing, we talked about her, and we're still here to point her out that's that extended limit of judicial mitigation. You have a whole series of violations, for example, where the minimum penalty is 300 thousand kuna. Maybe some kind of violation that is actually by its weight isn't always, it doesn't produce severe consequences, and 300 thousand kuna is a very large sum, especially if it's a small craftsman, it's a legal person. So here we can such a punishment is important the court can reduce. Therefore, it can be adapted to the actual circumstances and economic strength of the perpetrator. Because it doesn't hit every single one the same way. Especially when there's no respect for a deadline. It's not the same if you haven't accomplished anything at all or missed one day, and you've fulfilled your obligation to, say, hand over a form, etc. Well, here we are now expanding this mode of mitigation so that it adapts much better. It's similar with the Institute of Liberation. So now we explicitly prescribe it, but we also give conditions so that there will be no abuse. What we all knew was our obligation, but here we are norming, is the principle of applying a mild regulation to disable double procedure. That's what we know about the famous MARESTI, but not just because of it, but it's one basic principle, and now we're prescribing it. What we're abolishing, we're abolishing the parole institute with protective surveillance. In fact, it has not been implemented at all and if implemented it would be too expensive without any specific effects. So these are the most important changes. Compared to these two readings, I would also point out an increase in the maximum duration of work for the common good. We suggested 120 hours and from the debate here we saw that it was actually one minimum that was insufficient. Now we're raising it to 240, precisely so that all of these perpetrators of serious violations can fit into that standard. We're extending the forced payment deadline from six months to two years. When it comes to foreigners we arrange in a way that they will not be forced to charge but if they do not pay within the time limit is changed by prison because when this forced charge goes, then there is actually avoidance and our citizens are not equal. The other thing I've already announced is we've cancelled, we've given up on that solution so in some cases there won't be a complaint. So that's not it we've moved. In the principle of opportunity I spoke and we find this very important when there is an element of violence then for the withdrawal of the sea damaged natural person to give consent, it is especially in the case of domestic violence etc. We find that very important, so that's what we put here now. We extend the scope of the control of the bodies carrying out the procedure when adopting the agreement of the parties. So with that, we also want to, I won't say avoid abuse, but allow for better achievement of the purpose of this process. So it can be agreed, but the body will, however, be prescribed to oversee the agreement. This is another thing, and we're extending from 10 to 15 days the possibility of sentence of juvenile law. Unfortunately, in minors, these parts are becoming more and more common with the elements of violence and we believe that they should be raised to a maximum of 15. However, we are also introducing a safeguard measure, which is that the opinion of the Centre for Social Care cannot be said for juvenile prison, i.e. when speaking. It's with a whole series of other things, I mean here, let's say finally, I'd say, we're sorting out the situation when there's been a confession of guilt. So far, you have had to conduct a full procedure, and we now define that only a procedure must be conducted on circumstances affecting the level of punishment, not those affecting guilt. So these are some kind of changes, there's a whole series of other technical changes, but here's the law that's before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35099	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the club representatives' turn. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a colleague, Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35100	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. When I spoke on behalf of the club in the process of reading this law, I was warned by a colleague that I was in too much nonchalant or unserious way of talking about the law which was not an intensity, and which I think the minister didn't understand in that way. In any case, all these solutions proposed in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law are accepted by Croatian Labourists and it is quite logical that the law is changed for several reasons. We have three times as many violations as the minister said earlier than usual in Europe, in developed countries, in countries where the rule of law rules. Whether it means that Croatian citizens are three times the size of those in the EU, it is very difficult to conclude, but it is quite certain that a large number of insignificant violations appear in the courts, burdens the courts, and this law allows these insignificant violations no longer to be pushed into court drawers or not to come to court at all. The default is frantic, 88% of the fines have been non-chargeable so far. So if only 12% of criminal penalties are paid means that something in the system is wrong because I would not make it easy for Croatian citizens to have undisciplined non-payments because we know well that the billability of TV charges is one of the biggest in Europe if perhaps, if not the largest in Europe. So Croatian citizens are disciplined. What the law says we'll probably see within a year if we've guessed with these solutions. My opinion is that we are. These discounts are stimulating, so a discount of 1/3 if you pay in time and a 50% discount if you pay a criminal penalty on the spot. That's what I said the last time you do two violations, you only pay one, like in a boutique when you buy two dresses, or two pants, and you only pay one, as much as that comparison might be guilty, but it's basically the same. So this law will allow courts to relieve themselves of pressures by insignificant violations whose actions are more expensive than the violation itself. However, one single remark on the solution that this law gives, the law solves rationality, and in fact it should be resolved by courage and should finally legalize equality, equality when it comes to a misdemeanour procedure. You know that many countries have a completely different way of punishing, which is that those who have more, rich wages when they commit a traffic violation, pay as much as they are, in fact, determined by the penalty of property censorship. Remember that misdemeanor when Mr. Kerum was driving and when he was caught on the street by cops and actually when he wasn't driving, he was flying low, and when they told him 2,000 kuna, and he said, "Is that all he said?" He took out 2,000 kunas and paid for it. It is unfair for the same offence to be paid by Mr. Kerum, and Ivica Todoric, and Tedeski, and a worker with 1800 kuna fines. Countries of modern democracy, countries where the right is exercised every day at every moment have resolved that those who have more pay. I therefore appeal to Mr. Minister who, by his set of laws, has shown that this is the ministry in front of the other ministries, that this ministry is moving forward with time, to try to make a law for Croatia revolutionary and certainly that Croatian Labourists will accept it and welcome it. Croatian Labourists will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35101	Thank you. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35102	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vuksic, you're a little contradictory in your statement. So you're saying that this is a solution from the law on discounts on payments immediately on the spot and in time, that it's a good thing and at the same time you're pushing for equality to introduce a property censorship into paying a fine, so that whoever has more to pay than all these people I'm not going to advertise, which you mentioned here, assuming they have a lot of money, that they should pay more and workers with a salary of 1800 kuna less. In this way, this law will achieve exactly the opposite effect and you support that law. So these gentlemen who have money will probably have cash on them and when they have to pay for the offense, they will pay 50% of the price of their fine, the penalty the state has prescribed, the punishment that the state has said is worth so much damage to that protected goods and that worker who has 1800 kunas will probably not have that money in his pocket and unfortunately won't be able to pay immediately and will ultimately be held liable and will ultimately pay far more, so probably those misdemeanors because he won't be able to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35103	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35104	Well, I don't think there's anything controversial about that. I'm saying this law is a step forward. And I've proposed to the minister that a law be made to keep in mind and property censorship. Then the punishment for him who earns more will be greater, and if he is given half the punishment, he will pay more. At this point, with 12% of the fines charged, something needs to be done, and I think this is one step forward, one step forward. This I think is the solution that at this point should be supported precisely because the current law is ineffective because, in fact, when 88% of the citizens of those who should pay the penalty do not respect that law and if the system has not found an adequate solution, that means that it should be changed. This proposal, the final draft of the law on amendments and amendments to the law of violation, I suppose, will allow the payability of the fine to be higher, to dissipate the courts. And in the next step, we need to think about the solutions that will make progress and this relationship to the property censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35105	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35106	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, the fundamental intention of the legislator and the debaters should be, the club's representatives, that this Final Bill of Violations is being passed primarily in order to make this system effective. It has been shown here in previous years that the existing law which had good solutions and the intention to punish perpetrators first and foremost in a certain way that this was intended by law did not show any particular benefit in view of the large number of cases and cases which were buried by the High Violent Court and we see that this forced collection through the tax administration absolutely showed nothing good that only 12% of the cases had been resolved and a large amount of unpaid fines and blocked the work of the Tax Administration but buried the High Violent Court with a large number of cases. For us at the HDSSB Club, the most important thing is first of all this definition of a misdemeanor, narrowing down the definition of a misdemeanor because all that has so far been envisaged as a violation, perhaps in the most part, is what has been buried by the criminal court. We have seen in the reasoning of the law and in that previous debate in the first reading that some 500 laws have passed, and that there have been several thousand provisions on violations that simply so many of the planned violations could not have led to the effectiveness of solving cases, and thus, if we seek the excellence of the judiciary, efficiency, the functionality of the work of the courts, then perhaps we ourselves blame ourselves for predicting in such a number of laws something that is not practical. So for us, first of all, it is most important, according to this bill, to narrow down the definition of a violation, to introduce insignificant offenses as we have in the Penal Code, so the possibility that if the offence is such a nature that there is no specific violation of nor any particular gravity or injury to society, then indeed that insignificant offense will lead to the discharge of the judiciary and the discharge of the general issue of violations, because I believe that we will really think very well of some other laws too. That's the most important thing for us. So this part of the debate we had in our first reading about the so-called so-called. under quotes of a discount in the payment of fines, we can only view it as an intention to pay the fine to bring efficiency in charge. Therefore, this should not be understood as any discount or view of the property censorship in that part depends on the offence. If it's a minor nature violation it's a lesser punishment, if it's... a violation he doesn't exist as such. And for these major violations, therefore, the payment of the fine within the time limit determined by the misdetermination of whether it will be 1/3 less or it will be 50%. If we understand each other well, Minister, this payment of 50% in cash at the scene of the offence, I think we said that we should issue payments so that it is not paid with cash, cash at the scene of the offence, but to issue to the offender a payment that will thus be paid into the state budget. And what is most important to this would be the provision and the intention of the legislator to punish the offender who violated the law in such a way that if, by reason of the effectiveness of the law itself, and the implementation and satisfaction of the perpetrator's sentence for the act he committed, he could pay it half as it was intended so far. But that cash payment, I think it should be handled differently. First of all, this solution to the register, the introduction of a register of committed and unpaid offenses, so it does not apply to those documents that we would have left in the solution to the fundamental human rights, so we cannot prevent it from issuing a personal passport and so on. This is a matter of traffic documents, a driver's license, probably, and so it's a minor offense, it's about those violations that are meant for minor punishment, and then this solution to these permits might be good. Only the way the register will be managed and how much money it will take to form that register will likely require certain costs and certain people who will work for that register. Well, here's what I haven't seen under the bill how it's going to work and whether it's going to be the cost. The principle of opportunity, therefore, is the principle of deciding whether it is reasonable to initiate a misdemeanour procedure or whether it is necessary to give up the proceedings, is a good legal solution and that particular individualisation in the decision-making of judges in the infringement proceedings. So far, it has been the same for everything that all parties before the judge were considered regardless of the price, whether the party is employed or unemployed, whether it has had money or not, this individualisation will certainly contribute to the fact that the judge will also find himself in a direct contact with the offender in that individualisation assessment eating opportunely continue the procedure and that the work of such a nature that can be solved in a different way is certainly a good legal solution. The introduction of a lump sum in these complaints of a misdemeanour is also good, so that there are no cases of misdemeanour if the perpetrator is aware that he has committed an offence and that he will have to execute for a solution or pay a misdemeanour sentence or work for the work of the general good. Expansion of the general service captain to 240 hours is also a good legal solution. First of all, it's only been 120 hours, and more order needs to be introduced for this work for the common good. That's what we think at the HDSSB club is the best measure. It is not all about burying prisons to people who cannot pay or have no money but this work for the common good needs to be defined specifically, to take such measures that the work for the general good will show its purpose. Before... this law, which is that the perpetrators of the offence are aware that they committed an offence that it is punishable under the law but that they do not have to if they have no money to go to jail for it because it is not all about putting someone in jail but rather making the perpetrator aware of what he did. But for these actions, this work is certainly good for the common good and we support this expansion to 240 hours. Dispersion of the High Violent Court, transfer of the case to criminal courts, so Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek for these cases by appeal of objections up to 15 thousand kuna. It's also a good solution under the law, but we may have been able to consider that there are more misdemeanor courts in some major cities that could contribute to the discharge of the High Criminal Court but to the discharge of these courts. Well, here in some major bastards, I'm sure there are conditions that maybe other cities involved that this large number of infringement cases would be resolved as soon as possible, which is our obligation, but also one picture of the judiciary is really what it was according to these statistics so far, and it's a brake itself, and a bad picture before Croatia's entry into the EU if we've passed quite a number of laws that have proved to be a single piece of legislation under Chapter 23, according to what the Ministry of Justice has done in the past and to this day. It would be good for the other ministries to do the same, let's say the Ministry of Economy and that investments are better, and then everything would work much better. It's not only good that we have good criminal law, if we don't have a good economy, then here we are, I believe there will be a better picture in the future in this situation. This directive, therefore, introduces nomotechnical law-making, abandoning a conditional conviction with protective supervision, has already been discussed in the first reading. So everything that's been ineffective is being thrown out of the Criminal Code. Demarcation of criminal proceedings from criminal proceedings, so.... The principle... may therefore have been shown by the European Court of Justice's ruling that in some cases cases cases cases of involvement and by criminal law, this no-technical settlement of the Law of Infractions primarily contributes to the effectiveness of the judiciary and all these measures that I do not now repeat by what we said in the first reading of the law. I believe that until this final text of the law we have received one better offense law and that, in practice of the work of the criminal courts, especially the High Court, and by these measures that we have adopted as measures which will above all not be measures to ensure that someone will be able to vacate the way in which they pay the fines rather than make this criminal justice system more effective in the Republic of Croatia, that Croatian courts will be relieved, and that citizens who have not committed major acts of nature which are considered minor offences will not have to pay anything for it but will only be alerted to their own proceedings and that this offence will no longer be repeated. The HDSSB club in the final text therefore supports this Criminal Law and we believe that there will be efficiency, economics and functionality of this part of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35107	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35108	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Since colleagues who spoke earlier today in the second reading debated on behalf of clubs, and that we discussed very closely in the first reading all the changes proposed by the Ministry in this law, I will only try to recapitulate the position of the CNS which I said in my first reading, which is full support for this proposal on amendments and additions to the Code of Breakdown. Namely, this legislative proposal is harmonising our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. The need for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law is conditioned by the difficulties observed during its application. In fact, although the law originally obtained very good results did not ultimately contribute to achieving the effectiveness and discharge of the High Court of Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately there are a large number of pending court cases in the High Court of Justice. Unfortunately, that number is growing more and more permanently. So it was already in 2011 that these figures were going up drastically, and in 2012 as well. The number of letters 70449, that's only if they count to 70,000 is a huge amount of time, let alone how much time it would take to solve all these objects effectively and adequately. Furthermore, there are also problems in the enforcement of powerful misdemeanours. The fact suggests that the Tax Administration has charged around 12% of the fines infractions from 2007 to 2011, means that nearly 90% of the fines have failed to be charged. The proposed amendments to the Penal Code are going in three directions, in the first place to reduce the inflow of cases against infringement courts, in particular to the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia, the second direction which will increase the level of payment of fines imposed, i.e. the overall enforceability of infringement decisions and the third direction is mainly nomotechnical adjustment. By amending the Criminal Code, we believe that the Ministry of Justice has set out in a good direction in order to reduce the number of cases coming before the court with these amendments, it will increase the level of payment of fines imposed, i.e. the overall enforceability of judgments and the solution should be better under this proposal. Citizens also want to be encouraged by this law, I think that we must be positive in this thinking, that is, the proposal given by the Ministry, means that they want to be encouraged to pay penalties through some of the encouraging measures such as paying on the spot, through the possibility of collecting fines in half the prescribed fixed fine or in half the minimum amount of the prescribed penalty in the range. It encourages convicts to pay fines in due time, which is also good. This wants to motivate the offender to pay, while also discharging the criminal justice system. Another very principle is introduced to us, the principle of opportunity that exists in criminal law, but there has been no priority in the offence. It allows the prosecutor not to initiate a misdemeanor procedure if he considers its launch not to be meaningful. This will also affect the reduction in the number of cases burdening criminal trial. Changes are also shortened and deadlines are outdated, but are also foreseen to adapt to the financial opportunities of individuals. We also find it very valuable to pay attention to the proposal. It is also tightened by the regulation of the bill, setting aside the short notice of the issue of documents for those who have been given fines and foresaw penalties. It shall also be introduced by the Institute of Insignificant Violation, which gives the prosecutor the possibility not to consider it a violation if the degree of threat or injury to the protected goods is minor. There is also a settlement for the offender who admits the misdemeanour and one novelty, it can also be said that large and significant is that this law can also be implemented in the area of ZERP. All these positive amendments proposed are intended to achieve a rapid and meaningful infringement procedure and therefore the CNS will support the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35109	Thank you. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35110	Dear Madam MPs, here's what a colleague from the club said, we will support this bill. However, I am interested in something else, whether we are past this law, with the fact that I do not wish to justify what Mr. Mamic directed to Minister Jovanovic, but whether we have introduced a verbal delinquent again in the Republic of Croatia, because there is obviously no verbal delinity in this law. On the other hand, I asked for a stenogram of Tuesday's session di, among other things, one respected representative from the National Minority Club says this way: "What we have done in this House is that the media image of this Assembly is not what it is, that there is no circus, caravan, Slavonic or any other bartending in which no serious debate is possible." So this is somewhere on the trail maybe even worse than what one man referred to another, and then the police came in early night or late night and put him in a fairy tale. So here I would also ask this Parliament and all MPs here to condemn this speech to one of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament because I don't consider this to be a brtija, or that the debates are bartering, or I really want to know why they are being replaced, or why the editors on HTV are being replaced, so I would also ask the Minister of Justice's answer. Because this is far more offensive to me than the one Mamic Jovanovic said. This one could sue him for defamation without the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35111	Thank you. A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35112	My colleague Vinkovic, I think you might have answered the debate and asked the minister what you asked him through my replica. And when you're told that just by not respecting the rules of the game and the Rules of Procedure of this House, you're making a difference with this House, I think we're all who are so telling you that we're right. So now you've asked me a question through replica, Minister. You have the right to debate, please report, the minister will probably answer your question in his explanation. So it's right that those of you who tell you that you're making a mess out of this assembly. This is another example of you doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35113	A colleague of Vinkovic's, please. You didn't get the word. You had a replica that wasn't a replica, and now I'm asking you to make sure we can keep working. On behalf of SDP representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. I would like first of all to say that the SDP club will support the final draft of the law. But first of all, I want to say that we support the goals that it aims to achieve. In the law, we find several bold moves that the Ministry of Justice shows that it continues as well as in other areas such as litigation and criminal proceedings, land books, through more courageous and modern reforms that have not been done for what reason so far. But here, we're making them now. I'm sure this is exactly why almost always the draft laws from this ministry have the support if not everyone, then most of the club representatives. One of the basic reasons why we are discussing this law today is the fact that misdemeanor courts are so suppressed by unsolved cases, especially cases by appeal at the High Violent Court that this problem obviously cannot be solved in another way. As a shadow, he is followed by the problem of enforcement of the judicial decisions of power, i.e. the judgments of law enforcement. These are things that make up the statistical problem of the Croatian judiciary and which even the most skilled lobbyists cannot explain to the representatives of the European Commission who are coming to Zagreb to examine the situation and progress of judicial reform. In addition to the fact that the statistical problem is even more important, that these are the problems affecting our citizens, their right to decide within a reasonable period and they are also the rights of the state that, in the event of the execution of a powerful verdict, so to pay the debt that society has towards the individual who has sinned on its rules. Since the first reading of this law, a number of 70,000 unsolved cases has been resilient in the High Court of Infringements since the first reading of this law. It should not be repeated that the issue is both the minister and the judges, the repressive apparatus, the legislator, the state budget and so on. When everything is summed up, the conclusion is that it's a big problem for all of us. As for the execution of powerful judicial decisions, in particular in terms of information that speaks of the charge being charged in a shorter case less than 15% of the fines imposed in a misdemeanour procedure, we again face a major problem. And this is not a problem that is once again being plagued by the Minister of Finance but by all taxpayers who regularly pay taxes and thus finance the expensive involvement of a judicial apparatus to conduct a misdemeanor procedure that will be expensive, which will last several years, and eventually the fine will never be charged. When we think about it that way, we realize that it is a problem for all of us and that under these conditions it must not be accessible conservatively. That is why we agree and agree to a solution proposed by this law, that the fine for a committed offence charged on the spot can be reduced by half and that it can be considered as being paid whole. Although some will say that this is a measure that unfoundedly goes hand in hand to those who have finished money with them, it is not the intention. It is not intended to favour those who carry cash in their wallet but rather to change their awareness of the activation of a judicial apparatus and awareness of the amount of the costs of the procedure that cause the deliberate conduct of criminal proceedings in cases where the defendants themselves know that they are guilty of committing the offence but are still engaged in long-term and expensive proceedings in order to seek a lesser sentence than the one they were told at the outset. We at the SDP club don't consider this the capitulation of the state in front of insubordination citizens who take it from them in principle, give what you give but a serious approach to awarenessing citizens about how expensive the proceedings are in front of our courts to be conducted if both sides know in advance how it will end. The flat-rate cost of the second-degree procedure is also a good approach. By complaining, because the one who succeeds with the appeal will not cost anything and the one who fails in his appeal may be able to prevent him from making a complaint if he is clear that he will not succeed, and he will have to pay the cost of whose amount of 2 thousand kuna is not small at all. In particular, this applies to cases where regular authorities or other authorised persons are directly observed by the fact that an offence is committed or where there is documented and very difficult evidence that the offence has been committed and who is its perpetrator. The same effect is thought to be achieved through the establishment of a register of fines imposed, and the outstanding fines that will surely encourage convicts to settle their unpaid fines in terms of traffic offences but only in a year. One of the same problematic points of the infringement is the forced payment of fines. Already said earlier by colleagues who spoke on behalf of previous clubs, the effectiveness of forced payment of fines is not only one of the indicators of efficiency of the system but they are also an indication of whether it makes any sense in laws to prescribe infringements, to conduct expensive procedures and to initiate forced payment. If we stay on the 14% number, the question is, does it all make sense together? It may not be pretentious at this point or think about whether improving forced collection can increase the general prevention in terms of deterring from beginning because of the awareness that the final payment of fines will ultimately not be possible to avoid. Of course, if there is a possibility that the penalty may be charged, the person has at all the means that are suitable for forced payment. In that case, if there is no change of law, it is easier to act. In fact, it will be easier to apply the exchange of fines by working for the common good, and it will only eventually and exceptionally replace itself with a prison sentence. If we take into account the situation of the accumulation of Croatian prisons and again the cost of introducing a convict into prison for several thousand kunas which is extremely expensive and requires the engagement of the system for one person, we also consider that working for the general good is also an appropriate way to repay debt to society because of the injury that has been committed so much that it has demanded a criminal sanctioning. We are also pleased to have increased the maximum number of hours that can be replaced by work for the general good compared to that solution from the first reading. What prompted the attention of the members of the Justice Committee during the debate on this law is the fact that violations in Croatian law are not such as in criminal law, for example, are not codified and collected in one place. By any chance, we could now be able to compare more easily what kind of violations related to various injuries or life situations we in Croatian law are even processing. In fact, we heard from the minister that the infringement provisions are in over 700 Croatian laws, so we can only imagine how many ranges of special minimums and maximum penalties are different. On the other hand, we have the same impediment for certain offences that life’s logic itself states are not the same and cannot be compared by the severity of the injury at all. Since the practice of prescribing infringements in special laws has gone so far that it has virtually disabled the codification of the infringements we must reconcile with the fact and do everything possible to achieve as much exclusion and flexibility of the infringement process as possible. Not all acts, or injuries, of the same weight and intensity, may therefore be declared insignificant in view of the circumstances of a particular case. If we bear in mind that the offence is a principle of injury and a threat to some good so much intensity that it requires prosecution by a state apparatus, but it is still not so much that it requires that we consider it a criminal offence and prosecute it before criminal courts, then we feel it is good that there is both in criminal law and in criminal discretion to assess whether any criminal offence has caused such a minor injury that it should give up the criminal prosecution for its insignificantness. It doesn't make sense, of course, that the right to qualify an act of insignificantness exists in a criminal and in a criminal no. Of course, the responsible use of this institute in accordance with the law as a need should not even be mentioned. I repeat once again that we are sure that this reform law along with the other laws that have come from the Ministry of Justice from other types of proceedings and the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35115	Thank you. The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35116	Dear colleagues here are actually more agreeable than replication, but just to clarify, we also find what the minister said that in 700 laws there are breaking provisions, about 70,000 at this time of the file lies in drawers in courts, everything seems to have become a violation in Croatia. Many things ended with these violations in court, and those insignificant violations, however, one important fact should be warned, which is that for years, even decades of violations, a harsh violation of the law was not sanctioned, which did not fall under the law. So we seem to have forced the violations to achieve a sense of human beings, and that's where we're being reported, that's where we're being sanctioned, that's where we're being prosecuted, that's where we're being prosecuted, that's where we're being prosecuted, that's where we're being tried, that's what we're being legal. But when billions were being stolen, when they were working and when the state was being destroyed, when companies were being destroyed, when black funds were being created it never ended in court until two years ago, 3 years ago as we started and quite certainly that the situation in the judiciary had now become a little bit clear and the fog settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35117	The answer to Sandra Petrovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35118	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Vuksic, I agree with you, I have listened to your debate and I can agree with you in the part where you say that the offense today, these violations that are found in over 700 laws that are very different in their content and the severity of the injury. That we should somehow unify them, that we should treat all the citizens of this country equally and even in committing violations. So, if a crime is committed, it should be sanctioned for it. Our problem in principle and what causes us to actually have a moral crisis in society is not to collect and sanction violations, because violations are not so severe an injury that they could cause such a major moral crisis in society. Our main problem is not to charge for what has been knowingly, in a diabolical way pulled out of the state budget over the years, it's our problem that we can't charge for it. For one speeding ticket easy, but I'm asking you what's up with all these millions, I think that's where we agree anyway. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35119	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. Well, here's a representative of the SDP club, she said she would support this law and, above all, says she supports the objectives set by the promoter to achieve these amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. The HDZ Club also supports the objectives set out in this law, that we will also support the government's and the promoters' efforts to make it more efficient and efficient. We also support efforts to reduce the area of offence, i.e. not to prescribe such a sea of violations and criminal sanctions, unequaled by... penalties in certain areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we doubt is that the proposal will amend and supplement the law in this text and achieve the objectives that the Proposer and Government are talking about. In fact, we support the fact that new paths are constantly being sought unless the legislation so far has obtained results. As you know, the Criminal Code was passed in 2007 precisely because the implementation of 2002 found that the infringement procedure was ineffective, that mostly in a number of cases it became obsolete before the High Violent Court and that it required the introduction of measures that would firstly remove the High Criminal Court. There are progresses made, above all by introducing a mandatory violation order. We see that these amendments and additions are also in that part, some changes have been made, but we believe that it was an effective tool, of course it did not get positive results to the end, and as we see from the data, the High Court is still burdened, the charge is weak 12%, which means that the state is largely powerless because it prescribes certain behaviours as punishable, criminally punishable and in fact failing its sanction implementation. Several solutions to this proposal are good, so we estimate that it is good and narrowing down the definition of violations so as to violate social discipline and breach of public order which is not prescribed by the Penal Code, which cannot be otherwise, which cannot be carried out otherwise than by determining a criminal sanction. But only the definition in this law will not result if the government, or whoever proposes and passed the laws, does not have an effective mechanism to control it through these, here we have now heard 700 laws that prescribe violations, and not to say whether the minister in these 700 counts and regulations of the local self-government units, so count plus these 700 laws and regulations within 500 and some units of local self-government. So, if we don't get these laws passed, we have some kind of surveillance, then this definition itself won't contribute to anything, and we'll be back at the top of Europe by the number of violations per capita. What I think is good is to introduce an institute of insignificant crime. That this principle of opportunity is introduced, that it introduces the possibility of mitigation, the possibility of release from punishment, and that it introduces the possibility of greater individualisation by decision-making, as well as the possibility that an authorised prosecutor may not have to initiate it, so the law gives him the authority not to initiate criminal proceedings even if the traits of a criminal offence were fulfilled if it is assessed that there are reasons why the perpetrator would be released or could be declared a meaningless criminal offence. What we don't consider to be good is that the nature of self-predicting criminal punishment or criminal punishment proceedings is circumstantial. Therefore, if a law stipulates that a violation of social discipline, public order, requires a certain sanction if prescribed by the legislator, it may only be subject to an explicitly established legal condition that penalty is mitigated or, as this law provides, to be released from punishment but what happens is not precisely by introducing a discount in the event of payment on the spot, so immediately or in the event of payment within the time limit set by the State to pay. Why? Because there's a de facto going on outside the court's parole. So outside the court mitigation sentence without any criteria. The only criterion for easing punishment is whether you have money or you don't have money. On the other hand, if you have money right now, your fine will be 50% cheaper if you paid within the time limit the state left it will be cheaper for you by 25%. The one who doesn't have money will pay for it all at 100%. On the other hand, this law provides for very strict and tax-listed conditions in some of its articles when the intended punishment can be mitigated, under what conditions and when a person can be freed from punishment. So on the one hand, if this goes into court, then we have conditions, and before the procedure just because, only by the criteria of financial power, it'll be a punishment of half or 25%. Why do we think that's what I'm saying about the state's capitulation? Because the state determines the penalty, but then she says, please pay it within the time limit, so if you pay within the time limit, it'll be something cheaper for you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a colleague said that this was not the proposal for someone to benefit from financial power. I firmly believe that was not the proposal's intention. She wasn't, but she turned out like that. It is said here that this increases citizens' awareness of how expensive it is when they burden a judicial apparatus, how much the costs of the procedure are, etc. And now there are legal solutions. So if the penalty but the one prescribed by the law, which the legislator said would be so, if it is paid immediately, then it is the amount of the penalty and the one who does not pay and enters the procedure will pay the costs of the procedure. Therefore, what can be done is to measure the costs of the real-estate procedure and that those who do not want to pay are already slowed down, unless they succeed in the process that they will also pay the costs of the procedure. In that sense, I also think that the good provision by which the flat-rate costs for the second-degree procedure were imposed, that there were no reasonable complaints, and that when the perpetrators were known to know that they were wrong because they were often coming, they dropped out of date due to this blatant regret that cost nothing. It is a good provision to pay the costs of the second-degree procedure and if the perpetrator succeeds in the procedure of course he will not pay and that is a far better solution than the provision voted here in the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the promoter in administrative disputes, which is that each party bears its own costs regardless of the success in the dispute. And I believe that if a citizen in a dispute with the state has succeeded, then there must be no cost in it but that the state must pay him back. As for forced collection, a few, two other things that have been resolved differently compared to the first reading, and here I would, with all the praises that we have heard today, uttered a single remark. That I am sorry that the proposer did not explain in the reasoning of the law the comments made in the debate in the first reading. Why did he accept them or not accept them? So there are two comments from the Justice Committee and I don't know who else but a series of objections have been made here, but they have not been made clear by the Proposer. Something about forced collection and efficiency. As we know in the current law, that deadline of one year before the tax administration, then it goes on to be forced to pay, the results are defeated, I think 12% of the bill. Then, in the first reading, it was proposed to go on payment through Fine and that if within 6 months it is not charged to go in exchange for a fine by working for the general good, with the consent of the perpetrator or if it does not consent to prison. Now that deadline goes on for two years, so we went from year to six months, and now we're six months out to two years. For two years, it will wait for some criminal penalty to charge FINA, after two years it will start in exchange. And in another article of this law, it is predicted that the outdated execution of a criminal sanction will take place in three years. Well, I'm telling you that then probably many of these penalties won't be executed because they're going to come out of date because only after two years after FINA informs that a successful charge will start in exchange, how it works for the common good, how it is carried out we saw that it's not very fast and effective. I therefore doubt that this deadline from one year to the next is too short and that is not good. As for old age, that's where we came back for four years. So that old age that has been relative for two years, four years absolute, and then in the first reading it was 3+1, 3 years to conduct the procedure, so if an inadmissible verdict has been passed, then another year. Now we're going back to four years old except in cases where violations are required to issue a mandatory criminal order, so for something easier to violate for three years. We're going back to what we swore we weren't going to, which is that we're going to cut the deadline for the state to do to make the state's bodies more efficient. It is good to increase the maximum duration of work for the general good to 240 hours from the current 120. It's roughly if I've calculated correctly covering some fine of 16 thousand kuna. I don't know if I counted properly. But we still haven't received valid or for me are unacceptable arguments and for us that 300 kuna fines is replaced by 2 hours of work for the general good or with one day of prison. There's no way we can understand why it's prison day and only two hours of working for the greater good. Last time, the minister interpreted that working for the general good cost, that's true, but it costs even more than one day in prison to the state and therefore I don't understand why 300 kunas wouldn't change for more hours of working for the general good because as I said last time, this is the best living room I've ever heard of and which in Croatia has. You can make the best money not to pay and go work for the greater good. Something about shorting out the issue of documents or withholding certain rights that the minister spoke of, however, the proposal for this law says that registration, driver's license, extension or issue will be denied, access to public procurement tenders, award of concessions, etc. The minister mentioned that I might not know what the amendment to the government would take into account only this part, so issuing permits and so on. I don't see any reason why any unpaid offense would be punished only by citizens who go for traffic licenses and registrations, and those others don't. So that's still kind of unspeakable. And here, finally, is a series of provisions that lead to this goal that the promoter pointed out, but we think that there are provisions that are completely contrary to logic and the sense of punishment, and that in that sense they are not well solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35121	The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35122	Dear colleague Lovrin, one thing I agree with you about that I didn't talk about in the presentation, and that's what I'm wondering how 300 kuna is worth 2 hours of work for the common good. I don't know if the minister knows what an hour it costs to collect leaves, an hour of ironing, or what an hour of English or Hebrew teaching? Certainly there is no more expensive if it comes to your house 150 kuna per hour. There are 300 kunas here, and it's two hours of volunteer work for the common good as if we're rewarding them for committing some kind of a violation. I think that should change. And now something I disagree with, and that's what you say is easing punishment without criteria. When we talk about that thing you pay, I insist on it, you pay one fine and you cover two, you get two, you pay one. If the law is prescribed, then a criterion is established. So tell me what the criteria are when serious crimes are being negotiated with courts by those who have committed serious crimes and are being negotiated in the interest of saying justice and the rule of law and then avoid the persecution of the state because they have shown someone, they are forgiven by a great, great burden and by often suspicious circumstances, and we do not know what they have agreed on for the benefit of the rule of law. First they destroyed her, and then they helped her as a rule of law. So that's two criteria, but I think this scale is much better in this violation of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35123	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35124	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, first about this first. Yeah, you're right, this is the best captain. A fine of 2 thousand kuna divided by 300, 6 hours of work for the common good. I don't know who can make six hours' work two thousand kunas. I repeat, I didn't get an argumentary answer, and this is what we were talking about, and in the area of the Penal Code, we were asking the same question. Even worse, if you're punished, for example, with 1,500 kunas, then you won't be able to replace the unpaid fine with the work for the general good, but it will come to you to conduct the exercise on the movement, so it will take something out of your house if you owe 1500 kuna fines, according to the minister's law. As far as this other guy is concerned, why I said there's no criteria, there's only a criterion if you have money or you don't have money to pay right away. And here I am reading article 12 of these amendments and the addition that speaks of when a court can impose a minor sentence than prescribed for a certain offence, and it states exactly when, under what conditions, in which amount, to which this punishment will be mitigated, etc. The same for getting rid of punishment. So there are criteria when a court can do so, but here and before the court only by fact whether or not you have money is reduced. That's the problem we're talking about. The prescribed sentence, therefore, for some violation of social discipline or public order where the legislator has determined that it costs so much, that it is socially so difficult. You can't because someone has money in their pocket to say she's less socially difficult, she's equally socially difficult. That's why we're complaining about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35125	And Sandra Petrovic Jakovina, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35126	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Lovrin, you were talking about this law and you mentioned earlier that this law pleases those who carry cash in their pocket and who can charge on the spot half of the penalties imposed, and that we should actually act as prescribed by the law, or that all people, all offenders should receive equal punishment, or should be given the opportunity to get equal punishment. I agree with you in principle, but the devastating results are in the collection of fines. We need to be aware that he's hanging in the air again that number. 85% of the fines remain unpaid, they won't bring us anywhere. I think the devastating results have forced us to take this kind of action. I think at the end of the day it will happen that neither one who has paid nor one who doesn't if we continue to behave like this, if we don't do something to at least pay for some of those fines. I think the system is so bad that it has reached a certain point of boiling, to the point where we need to consider whether we have any violations in Croatian legislation at all or to give up punishment at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35127	Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35128	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, that's a good question in the end, because if you don't have to reward someone else who behaves in accordance with the regulations, you'll get a 10% reward from something if you act the way the state says. The proof of that is, the twilight of the rule of law is a lying cop, twilight. Why, because we have to make all the physical obstacles. So, if it's forbidden to drive more than 50 km/h in a street, then whoever doesn't drive like that is committing a crime and the police are supposed to punish him, it's drastically punishable, but it doesn't happen. Since it's not happening, how do we prevent him from driving over 50, we put down police officers and the whole of Zagreb and other towns are humps. And that's how we charge him, we can't charge him, we don't have police capacity, we don't know what we're gonna do, then we're gonna put a cop down. Where we can't park, we'll put up stairs, so our entire city is in columns and other cities, and eventually we'll have to put physical barriers to everything, because the state will be powerless to sanction, or implement, the forced enforcement of the sanctions she has prescribed. And as I was saying, you've been asking yourself this well, and I'm wondering if we're going to end up sharing a citizen's year prize or if I don't know what to do if someone's acting in accordance with this country's regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35129	I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure in 11.28 expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. First up is a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35130	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. First, here's a word or two about ourselves. Somehow, I would like to see us here more today when we are discussing this law because it is one of those laws that actually concerns each of us and every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia and all those that we represent here in the Croatian Parliament, but that's how it is, so I will only have two or three more thoughts about the law that is before us. First of all, I would quote my colleague Salapic as saying that he sees this bill as a step forward or a certain step forward in some segments. I agree, in some segments, with some provisions that, especially in the sense of strengthening the rule of law, in this sense, that when the rule of law requires that it be done and, of course, in the sense of simplifying procedures and processes, but also to get rid of courts, especially the High Courts are misdemeanors. I therefore see this also in the context of Chapter 23 and all that we have done in Chapter 23 to open and close negotiations in this very difficult chapter in our accession process to the European Union. Mr. Minister, here are two or three thoughts as I have announced. I'm in favour of introducing an insignificant violation institute, and I'm proposing something. So we know what the intensity of this announcement is through a law that will now become real life. So if we could, for example, go through a year, so I repeat, we know what intensity is, we know what we're trying to achieve, in a year, do some analysis of what we've got, how this institute came about in real life and what we've got in that way. Have we achieved the goals we really wanted when we introduced that institute? On the other hand, one thought related to Article 152j. So this is about that convict who, within the deadline set out in the Infraction Decision, does not pay a fine of power, and this clearly states what is to be denied. Therefore, issuing a driving licence or extending its validity, registration of a motor vehicle or extension, participation in a public tender in public procurement procedures, establishment of a legal entity and any status change thereof, establishment and registration of crafts and other independent activities and award of concessions and obtaining subsidies. These reasons that are mentioned here are of course not all that can happen and that we can encounter in what we call life everyday. For example, here is the reference to participation in a public tender in public procurement procedures, and I ask what is to do with the participation of convicts, therefore which has not carried out its obligation in public service invitations, i.e. participation in public procurement competitions in public or state-owned enterprises. So, if we go this wide, then I certainly suggest that we include it, and narrowing it down as we have heard of traffic violations, or those convicts who haven't paid a fine in power, so they're being denied the issuing of a driver's license and registration of motor vehicles. Again, I warn that this does not apply to most of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I think we should think about it very much. But if this is the case, then, of course, I ask the question whether those who do not, therefore, convicts who do not comply with their obligation, will most easily state their obligation whether they will be able to enter into a public service tender, or to receive it in public enterprises. But of course they will be able to, so they will be civil servants even after they are or are officials. Personally, I don't think anyone can be an official unless he's done his duty as a convict. And thinking along with Article 152f. which speaks of the reasons for the postponement and termination of the operation for the general good. So, disease, the emergence of severe disability but also severe illness, severe disability, etc. etc. And here in the end it is said that a delay in the execution of work for the general good cannot last for a total of more than 3 months, so a delay, and a suspension for a total of more than 30 days. However, since here, as a reason for delays and interruptions, cited also severe diseases, disability and illness, my question is what if all these reasons did not stop within 3 months, or 30 days. What happens then, and that is, of course, in real real life, quite possibly. Here, Mr. Minister, let me just further think about the proposal of this law, of course, with the conclusion that we will have to re-change, improve and bring things into line with the reality of course, but I also believe in the circumstances that will change again with Croatia's entry into the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35131	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Zoran Vinkovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35132	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs and the MPs. Here's what my colleague of the HDSSB club said. I apologize, he supports this law. But here as well as the representative, I would like to point out certain phenomena that occur not only in the justice system, but also in society, because Croatia is not a random state for us, nor is the Croatian Parliament a Balkan pub, nor is there a civil war in Croatia. In order for the system of justice, including this law, the law to be really effective and I would also say in the service of citizens who did not break the law, but in the service of those who broke the law. It is important, in any case, to re-warn the unsustainable state of the network of judicial institutions and that decision taken during the former government and ask the open question whether the final analysis has been made because it has been enough time for the Ministry of Justice to make one such analysis. We are talking about abolishing certain seats of municipal courts, state lawyers, and we need to understand, regardless of what may have been the condition of the EU that we still do not have the opportunities in the EU since the integration of EZ cities such as in Germany EZ banks, banks, a large network of railways, public transport, a huge number of lines. This is not the case in Croatia, and this one network is also difficult for those who work in the judiciary, but also for the citizens themselves. And here, I'm going to repeat what I said in the replica, given that I've followed closely, and even made a statement in a certain way and condemned, so I don't want to be a lawyer or Mr. Mamic, and I don't want to move that question again, I think that statement is... but that that statement is not addressed in the sense that it is addressed to the entire community or to another people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think first of all it was meant to be settled between, to say the least, between two individuals. So, I don't justify what's said and I'm asking if this is the doing of the Ministry of the Interior, the police practically past all the existing laws introduced a small door verbal delinquent and practically brought us back to the info desk in time to the time until there in the '80s when for the insult of certain or for singing Croatian songs you could have finished up to 6 or more months on the naked island. And will the police react in the same way if someone e.g. He says the Prime Minister isn't nice, that he doesn't like the citizen in question. Will the police react in the same way to certain comments on certain portals, to a facebook where indeed under false names but also with that IP address they can find those who muddle the honorable character and the work of certain persons? So, is the police reacting in the same way or reacting only in case an insult was sent to the current minister in the Croatian government? Or on the other hand, which is why the same Home Office didn't react to the Minister's insult when he said that there was a gentleman at the scene who, every morning, looked in the mirror to make him spit in what he saw in the mirror. So, I express the justifiable fear that it is this very move and I think it is ordered that this move is a return to and the introduction of a verbal delinquent in Croatia and a return to a dark, dark age in a long dark night. Also, I don't want to pour any oil on fire or simply wasn't here in Parliament on Tuesday, but I believe that one of these statements is an insult to all Slavonians, whether they are Croats or Serbs, Hungarians, Russians, that someone is not angry that I don't mention all the members of both the majority people and national minorities, where among other things, the distinguished representative says what we did in this House that the media image of this Parliament is not the same as it is. So there won't be a circus like a Slavonic caravan or some other bartending. I don't know if the Parliament might, because there are Slavs here and from other political options and even from here the party to which the honourable representative belongs. Would that also be easier to mention if this House looked like a Dalmatian tavern, a Zagora cellar, an Istrian fuzu, is that it's called a foyba? I think it is, above all, an insult to all Slavs and that, above all, a representative should apologize on this basis. Well, here's what I'm looking for first, and here's the minister's answer. I believe that he is with the Minister of the Interior in this case Mr Mamic and Minister Jovanovic as it is obvious that such proceedings have so far been resolved by applying for insult or slander, that the police have never reacted in such a way, that they simply respond whether a verbal delinquent is being introduced in Croatia beyond all existing laws because there was no obvious intention to deprive one another of their lives, and whether the police will act in the same way, for example. When Mata swears to another mother I don't know anything shocking, not to say Slavonic? Or when Ante or Philip Franny curses a tooth? Will the police react in the same way, come in late night or early night, put handcuffs on their hands and take them into custody? This is the basis of what has been happening in Croatia in recent days, and I believe that you as Minister of Justice to us Croatian representatives but also to the Croatian public need to answer that question. I hope we do not return to '48, that there is no return time for Villa Velebita to go to Goli Island, not to mention Get Up Bane, Croatia is calling you or for some other songs for which there is really no time or place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35133	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35134	Dear colleague, so I'd only one thing I'd try to engage in this debate, replicate to you. We can't put everything that's been said in the same basket in the last few days, put it in the same plane. I don't think he's coming back, introducing a verbal delinquent and unequaling everything that's been said on both sides. However, one question has been asked, in my opinion modestly, in expanding the intolerance of the international, in hate speech or hate speech, which is the next question of how, in fact, the question of how a Serb can be a minister, how a Serb can be a minister of something, anything. That's not an introduction, if it's responding, it's not an introduction of a verbal delinquent. In 2013, to talk in such a way, to tolerate it forgive it is a return to some dark times in which we will place the inn, in public place the entrance forbidden. Because this is the question of how can someone be because, how can someone be because they're gay, why, how can someone be because they're Czech? It can be, because he's human, he has qualifications, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and he can be. That's the question, that's the ugliest thing that's happened these days. It is turned around and the question arises because it is a verbal delict because this one told him spit in a view where you see your picture, I agree that it is not a verbal delicacy nor that part of the word of a gentleman whose name is unworthy to mention in the Croatian Parliament because it has polluted the public space of the Republic of Croatia for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35135	Time. Thank you. We have a response to the replica of my colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35136	I told my colleague Vuksic that I did not support at all what the gentleman said, nor was it my intention to repeat at all what was said, nor did I even condemn in a public statement such a way, but I believe that there was much to say and even worse, and worse things that were happening in Croatia, and worse statements and police at the time did not react in this way. And that's an open question, and even justifiable fear, don't forget that once you start doing something no matter why, that exception becomes a very fast rule, it becomes a rule very fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35137	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35138	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I hope no one else in this Croatian country is going to jail for singing Villa Velibit. I often ask them if you can imagine that this is why someone was sitting in prison once. I hope it doesn't happen unless someone remembers that maybe that song offends him or that it encourages hate. I don't think so. But you asked very well about this activity of the police and the state's attorney's office whether she will always and equally act in all cases, and that's the real question of the rule of law. And the question of how long are art freedoms, freedoms and when they shouldn't be anymore because they insult someone else. We have no recent cases, but here in one column I read a quote from our writer Miljenko Jergovic, who says: "Dinko Šakic, like this says, just a little bit. If he were alive and brought to Maksimir Stadium, Dinko Sakic, along with the ovations and the patriotic grunting of the present regiment, would be able to identify those whose heart at an exclusive moment beats for an enemy 16-year-old who could nail Serbia's goal." What citizens are at the entrance to Croatia, in Zagreb we can assume. He says that this, these citizens, a patriotic rock, implies that they are insulted and that pigs, what happens next, we all know that, and now I'm asking if this stays in the sphere of artistic freedom and artistic expression, or maybe there's a place where there's a hate speech. And I personally believe and support that no one in Croatia should be discriminated against for all those reasons, that I do not list, which in the Law on Discrimination write.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35139	Thank you. We have a colleague Vinkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35140	Here's an esteemed colleague I mentioned, so not only the portals, but go to any web site that's even about the media, for certain articles, read all those comments that are, so I'd say much more degutant though this was really degutant. I don't want to graduate now so someone doesn't get me wrong, but the police, although it's very easy to get to the perpetrators and practically the authors of those inscriptions that sometimes go to a personal level, sometimes they go to religious level, sometimes they go to national level, sometimes they go to all kinds of levels, but the police didn't notice that they took an IP address and just came in the night and brought those perpetrators in. Also, for me it's one thing, not just an insult, but one really big attack on the integrity of another person.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35141	Thank you. Next replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I disagree with my colleague Vinkovic's finding on this, speaking of one person's outbursts, I agree that his name should not be mentioned in the Croatian Parliament, that it should not have been resolved by the state because if the police react or the State's Attorney's Office reacts, then the state reacts. So it was not for the state to react not to react to the state but to resolve it between the two individuals. Absolutely not. The state should react because it is the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia's constitution. If anything else is about Article 14 and the provision that we are all equal before the law, but also about the protection of human rights, fundamental human rights, the rights of minorities. So protect the Constitution, protect the constitutional law, and if you want to protect and enforce the law on the prevention of discrimination. Because after words said that are absolutely intolerable, we have heard many others in media and political and any other space. The threat to the globular stakes, so that's what people with the name and last name said, weapons threats, but also one finding, so with a full name and last name, as many other or most people think, but they don't dare say it publicly. And the protection of each individual in the Republic of Croatia actually consists in this, implementation and protection of the values of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution and that is what this is about, and the role of MPs and advocates in this regard is enormous. And that's why we have to be very careful what we're saying here but also what we're saying in every other place because wherever we are and whenever one of us makes a finding that is unbearable to me. For example. that the Homeland War has not yet ended and that I guess it should end then it opens up new spaces for new problems, new discrimination and, of course, a new commitment from the state to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35143	Thank you, colleague. We have an answer, Comrade Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35144	So I agree this yes, I wouldn't say you should be careful of this, or afraid of what you say. At least that's what I think I'm saying. I've never been this one under the party line as it says to the auditors. So this one couldn't affect what I'm going to say but I argue that this event and the future will show very quickly that, based on this event that is completely unnecessarily, unnecessary in Croatia in the 21st century, very quickly and for fewer things and for less insults, and I won't even say hello to certain officials, it is likely that the police will consider it an insult but as regards the Homeland War, it is indeed the sanctity of the Croatian people, all those who took part in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. The only obvious thing for the Prime Minister was the civil war here. Well, that's the same insult the police should probably visit the prime minister for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35145	Thank you. Next line of Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35146	Thank you. Comrade Vinkovic, first of all, I accidentally pressed if there was nothing intentional. You were here apostrophe of speech from two days ago, of course it was my speech. Dr. Pupovac's colleagues. [[Invader Batinić: Col. Horvat closer to the microphone.]] You weren't at that session because if you were then you'd experience the entire atmosphere and then, because of the real information, you'd read the complete context of his speech from which you just singled out one fact, which is the fact that you'd be drinking in some kind of Slavonic or some other custom. Of course you mentioned a complete context then you'd see what Dr. Pupovac was going to say. He pointed out here a dissatisfaction with the display of parliamentary debates on public television where it is the impression that a negative selection of topics with some sensational themes is being stepped up in public and important things are not showing up. In that context, he said without intent to offend anyone. And we, of course, know Dr. Pupovac, know that for years, he has devoted 20 years of his political work to raising the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, long before we did it in the Parliament and you and I. So that's the grade. Of course the hate speech, that's something, that's the second thing I'd say. The hate speech is something that is escalating today but it's such a dangerous thing that even in the Penal Code there are dimensions of a very dangerous social degree. So there's such a danger of hate speech and comparing it to verbal delicacy is not good. One part of your first debate would agree. However, in order to be credible, you should have read the complete context of the stenogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35147	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35148	Well, there's an esteemed colleague, and I didn't even mention who that representative was, and it doesn't matter at all at this point who it is. Now you've mentioned who it is. But the important thing is that neither this House is a circus cafe nor a Slavonic or any other bartending or a Balkan pub, and that is why I read that quote. And as far as I'm concerned, first of all, I'm asking the minister if these police procedures are going towards certain persons announcing that a verbal delinquent is being introduced in Croatia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35149	Thank you. And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35150	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister... Replica to my colleague Vinkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You fellow wonder if they gave this back to the '48s if this informed whether this was the introduction of a verbal delinquent. I'm surprised you're surprised. If the Prime Minister calls for a bit of television and the chief director of television shifts editors in the morning, so what is it? It's the death of freedom of the media. It is an annulment of everything we have talked about in 20 years about democracy and freedom of the media, it is mocking the Croatian state, it is mocking the media, it is mocking the judiciary, it is mocking the Parliament. What's the Parliament doing? Let's break up. If the Prime Minister can conduct that television in swearing this side what they've been pulling out of the existing authorities with a sword, their guts have interfered with them, we want freedom of the media. And now the Prime Minister is replacing the editors. Mr. Secretary is making good suggestions. I usually raise my hand for your suggestions and this one's good today. But these are all make-up, little things. I am in the capacity of public official of one party's president in Split on TV, our invited, brought on television to say what I think of a director of the HNK intelligence. I said he was incompetent. Three ministers wouldn't confirm it, including this current minister, but I added I don't want him incompetent yet, he was still a member of the KOS. I was sentenced in Split to 15 thousand kuna, asking for 130 thousand kuna. With the court saying it was true what I said because it was in his military book that it was and he himself confirmed that it was true, the captain of KOS, and I was convicted. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, will you be convicted when you have announced and allowed a list of 500 thousand defenders to be published without their will. Because that's where he says he's in that unit and that unit, that and that road without his will. He can sue you that he was a member... or any formation Is that where we're in the state this is a legal state to protect some members of an army of a former state, an army that doesn't exist and this army here today we can put on the Internet and no one else's. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35151	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. And Prime Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'd look back on just a few things that got through the debate. So first I want to thank everyone for supporting the law. One thing opens up, and of course we've been thinking about it, and that's something we're going to come up with. At this point unfortunately, we do not have technical opportunities to do so, and that is to adapt the penalties to the property situation or that those who have more pay. And that's right. For if the punishment is a thousand kunas it is clear that he who earns 100 thousand is one hundred, and he who earns two is half his wages. And that's something that was our intensity. I'm sorry we couldn't introduce it right now, but we just don't have a chance at this point. But that's the future. It's not just the future with us, it's the future of general misdemeanor, but in criminal terms, it's already trying to carry out the same thing, and it's something we're definitely going towards. That's one of the reasons why we've introduced this thing that I've been talking about is that it's an expanded possibility of easing the court's mitigation of these prescribed maximums. Because it's really absurd and we can't accept what I'm always saying is that a small craftsman with one employee for the same offense pays the same price as a firm with five grand. And that's the current situation. And it just saddens me that we haven't changed before because, through such punishment, we've ruined many people and brought them to great trouble. And the problem is, we knew it, we didn't touch it. The problem is that we're just late, not because we're introducing, but simply because we're not. The other thing, there's been a lot of talk about this so-called. A discount. So I said three countries that have very similar arrangements to Slovenia, France, Germany. Now, if these aren't social countries because they're implicated here too that this isn't a social measure, if they're not social countries, if they're not countries with the rule of law if they're countries that had to resort to this because they haven't found a better solution, I have to admit that I'd be proud of a lot of things like them, so here we are in this. And I'll tell you what's within the CARDS I think you were a minister back then, this was proposed in 2008. The Department of Justice accepted that in 2008. We are now in 2013 not implemented. Absurd is 12% of the bill and you're talking about getting rich now. So who's profiting now? So you know who pays the fines? They pay for people who don't. They pay more than they have. And now we've introduced it like this, and since 2008, we've been able to do it and we haven't and we wouldn't have 12% more than we do since 2008. You're talking about the need to introduce some sort of control later, so whoever didn't pay for something special to be charged, I don't know either. Well, we don't have an effective procedure now, so what we're going to do is we're going to run another procedure after this, and then these 12% are going to fall to 65, that's the situation. So I'm telling you, I've told you an example of three countries that have resorted to this and have shown excellent results. The countries are not unsocial, the countries are not ineffective, the countries are democratic and I don't see a problem why we shouldn't go that way. You'll call us here. Here's a question for, say, a year and a half, and we'll see what the results are. If they're not good results, we'll change but it'll certainly be better results than now. We were talking about old age, it's not exactly how it's been done because you know that so far it's been old in some things for six, seven years, say, tax, etc. Infractions. Now it's a maximum of four years, and it's been reduced for three years where there's a mandatory violation order, so we've reduced the statute of limitations. Why? Because we want the state's activity. It's inadmissible to conduct a misdemeanor for seven years. If it's so hard, it's probably a felony, but if it's a crime, it's got to be over before it's done. So it's not true that we haven't solved the statute of limitations. We mentioned the register and we talked a lot about it and it's true that we're going now to amendments where we move things. Why, because we think it'll be better to regulate them with special laws because we realized we've listed some things, but there's actually a lot left behind. And I'll tell you honestly and the following, the register, so there was a question somewhere about the cost of the register. The registry actually relies on the infringement records that we now have and it requires the cost of information adjustment, but does not require the cost of staff, etc., so that's something we can establish. However, it is a whole new thing that must be shown in practice and that is why we have left the possibility of spreading through these ways. As for some other things, also one thing, 70% of non-paid traffic tickets, which is why it's logical to connect to traffic documents. In the event of a delay in execution, I think the same question has been raised, it is true that there is a delay in execution, but we believe that for more than 3 months if someone is seriously ill, etc. it does not need to be carried out further. And there's another element, purely practical. You can't have an employer waiting for someone for more than three months, that's life. So what's the intensity of the law is that what you write will be able to implement. We could draw me a lot more here and think about what it would be like to be something better, etc., but this is what we can really do. When we get through this, we'll move on. Here's my thanks. As far as these questions are concerned directly to me, given that the subject is in violation here, I will not answer them, but in principle I will not introduce the verbal delinquency, it has not been introduced before, it is not good to discuss individual cases especially when they are the subject of judicial decision-making, so the court will decide what is and what is someone's behaviour. It's our job, and that's for sure, that the state authorities will do the same thing in all cases, and the decision that is and what is someone's behavior and whether it's broken some law in the end line is in a court that is completely independent of it and we all have to support it. And I can only invite you not to comment on any individual subject. It's not fair to the defendant, either to the entire system or to the court. We have to trust the court to make the right decision,...there's always a higher court and that's how it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35153	Thank you, Minister. We've reported several replicas. The first one came forward by Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, here I have answered the line to sort of let me follow closely, let me know that I am closely following the debate on this law because of course we are all interested in as little punishment as possible. Of course, our citizens are those who are jobless and who are burdened with both a larger VAT and all other charges are already fined enough and in that sense you have touched that part of the property adjustment, etc. That's what I figured out about thinking. And I want to say one thing: that our citizens are not only concerned with non-payment of fines and at other levels not because they will not, but simply because they can't, can't pay communal compensation, I can't pay other obligations that they have in other circumstances. Here I come from an environment that is really simply very difficult to live in rural areas and where our farmers are exposed to traffic every day with their agricultural machines, with tractors, in circumstances where they can't pay for repairs, when this, when it is very easy that it is at some point exposed to a certain violation. Of course it must always be correct in traffic, but please nice and he can't do it. Of course there's no cash on him, no credit card, no more peasants so likely to pay for it. And now what's happening is, of course, he's forced, he won't be able to pay, he's going for this 300 kuna daily, and his daily is not even 100, sometimes he doesn't earn what he spent. And so those who have, of course, that they will be in a certain privileged position, and they can even buy an ENC for example... who has money, for example I'm saying, maybe that's a little bit different thinking, that has and that doesn't, doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35155	Thank you. Next replica and Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35156	Thank you very much. Minister, I would absolutely agree with you that you should trust in the court and the judges, and I must say that I am extremely glad that in recent cases the courts have acted according to the law, not subject to public opinion pressures which, of course, form very often and mainly the media. Well, because I have confidence in the court, I absolutely support all the provisions of these amendments to the laws that allowed you to relieve punishment, release from punishment, the possibility of stronger and greater individualization on the occasion of that decision. But by discounting the sentence before the court, it happens to ease the sentence outside the court, so by acting on that criminal prosecutor, without any criteria other than the property criteria or the lack of money at the moment. I'm not talking about social or social matters right now and today of these amendments to the law. I'm saying it's against logic, purpose, and all of why something is ever determined by a misdemeanor or a criminal act, to protect a certain social well-being. It shall be protected by a penalty which must be equal to all, and the court may, under particularly determined circumstances, mitigate or release it. I'm talking about this being a non-judicial, non-criteric penalty mitigation, or criteria are exclusively whether at that point someone can pay or not. What I was saying was that the cost of the process is actually charged and so much will be burdened by those costs by one who deliberately doesn't pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35157	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35158	Here's one thing I don't agree with you guys, I just don't agree with you in part. You said that model countries are Slovenia, France and Germany for you. I would not put the two of you, say France and Germany, in some of us because of what they do to both politics and how they treated minorities, etc. I wouldn't be, but it's your right, I'm not challenging you. But I agree with you that today they pay the least. That's what you can tell by the direction, by all means. I was speaking in my opening statement. In our country, people are very disciplined, citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be proud of them and respect them. I said we are absolutely certainly at the top of paying for the tv tax. Let's say Poland pays below 50% which shows enough how disciplined our citizens are. They don't pay the ones they have. And why aren't those who have paid? Because they have secretaries who write their objections, because they have lawyers who pay monthly to write their complaints. How long do they write their objections? Until old. They say we won't pay those 2,000 kuna, they'll find legal means not to give anything. Therefore, I agree here fully with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35159	Thank you. Next replica Dinko Buric, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've already talked a few times about the incredible problem we face in the 21st century, and that's the problem of decoupling between our courts. But here's what I'd like to warn you about, and I'd like to appeal for some things to be settled. In a court dispute when you sue someone or you're sued, then you have to pay a court fee. Sounds almost amazing to me. You get a warrant to pay your fees and then it's not enough for you to pay it, but you have to put that card back on the table and get it back to the court. Same thing with traffic tickets. You pay the fine in your place, they stop you at the Pleternica, you pay in Valpova, and then in a year you get a subpoena because you didn't pay the fine you actually paid, so you check how it happened. If you were lucky enough to keep your checkbook in order and then you find it's not enough to pay that fine, but you have to take it there to the police station that punished you because it's the only way they can be sure that you paid for it, and you paid for a jury account on a model equal to this. So you understand what I'm talking about. I speak even from my own experience because it happened to me for one traffic violation 500 kuna I should have paid so I paid. And then the judge called me to punish me extra for not paying. I found a payment card. I'll only return to the final It's amazing that you have to return the payment card to court then. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] I want you to be informed that this is the section of payment of the court fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35161	Thank you. We got it. And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35162	Well, I asked another question about that network of judicial institutions. I got the answer, but so there's a certain kind of analysis going on, while some now, in front of local elections, there's praise that it's going to be open very quickly probably as a birthplace in Djakov. So we need to understand that we really don't live in European conditions, that many citizens especially in Slavonia and Baranja don't have a single bus line daily and that what was done during HDZ government I don't know that someone who didn't go to the first grade of elementary school that could have done it. As for the verbal delinquent, we'll be sure of that very soon. For the very end, Dinamo and Hajduk live forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35163	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I thank the minister with the associate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35164	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Infringement Act, second reading. P.Z.E. No. 226. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. I would like a representative of the promoter, respected Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to be seen. Amendment No. Article 44 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35165	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35166	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. of Article 49.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35167	The government also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35168	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 61(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35169	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35170	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. There's more? There isn't. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. We're out, thank you very much. The debate is closed. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 95 votes in favour and 26 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35171	We continue with - Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 300. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic is with us. Do you want an introduction? All right, no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Lidija Bagaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we have the opportunity to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on Participation in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. The European Centre was established by the Regulation of the European Council of '93. as a decentralised EU agency based in Lisbon. In recent years, the centre has been closely monitoring the development of national drug policies and promoting the importance of interventions and measures in response to the current situation and new trends. The main product of the European Centre is the annual report on the state of the drug problem in Europe, which is presented to the European Parliament and to the general public. The candidate countries are required to form a system of cross-sectoral data monitoring, i.e. to collect data according to a standardised methodology to ensure that data are comparable at European level. They are also obliged to establish a national contact point in charge of co-operation and communication with the European Centre. The Republic of Croatia began informal co-operation with the centre as early as 2003, and formalised it through a framework agreement next year. The Government of the Republic of Croatia launched a procedure for the conclusion of an agreement in 2007 when it adopted the Protocol on the National Information System for Drugs, which defines key institutions and their obligations, means of communication, forms and methodology of data collection. That same year, the Protocol on the Early Warning System was adopted in the event of new psychoactive matters under the provisions of the EU acquis. As a national contact point for co-operation with the European Centre, the Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has been designated. The data required by the Republic of Croatia to deliver to the European Centre relate to statistics related to the monitoring of epidemiological indicators, indicators relating to the monitoring of crime, the availability of illegal drugs, drug markets, health and social measures as well as other relevant activities. Special attention shall be paid to monitoring the implementation of policies of strategic documents, quality and effectiveness of different programmes and projects in the area of reducing drug demand and public costs of the control system at national and local level. The aim of that system is to timely detect new drugs and other harmful phenomena that threaten the health of consumers, all for the purpose of carrying out controls and effective prevention measures, i.e. treatment. In recent years, the office has had excellent cooperation with the European Centre, which has participated in co-financing of various research-related projects, and in cooperation with competent ministries and institutions, a stable and effective National Drug Information System has been built that regularly fulfils all obligations towards the European Centre. So last October, we had the opportunity to discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on the national report on the state of the drug problem in the Republic of Croatia, which was made according to European standards and as the sixth report also submitted to the European Centre. The agreement we are discussing today was signed in 2010 and has come into force by decision of the Council in 2011. However, it has not been sent to the Croatian Parliament for a number of high membership fees which would then be mandatory to pay. And it's worth it if the deal is ratified in the last one, so the first year is worth it. This is the case now, and about 375 thousand kuna is made of which 75% is financed from IPA funds, so about 95 thousand kuna is to be allocated from the state budget, or one quarter of the first year. And that's planned in the government office's budget to combat drug abuse. Following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, the European Centre will provide the government's office with an annual grant of around 98 000 euros. Which will be like support for participation in the work. Confirmation of the agreement will allow for the establishment of general principles, deadlines and conditions for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Centre as well as for participation in the activities of the European Centre by the appointment of a Croatian representative in the Management Board of the Centre which will be in the status of observers until Croatia's accession. The SDP club supports the adoption of this law confirming the agreement in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35173	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Sunny Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have heard from a colleague who has explained what this proposal brings to us that confirming this agreement will set out general principles, deadlines, conditions for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. So Croatia will be able to appoint its representative in the Management Board of the European Centre as observers, of course, where it remains until Croatia's full entry into the EU. In January of this year, the organisation of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addictions in Lisbon held numerous meetings on short-term interventions and motivational interviews and the implementation of best practices. There are also some new data, of course, which we will join with our active membership, so the latest data from drug use surveys in the general population that some 5 million Europeans aged between 15 and 24 years, for example, in December 2012, consumed cannabis, and about 3 million people consumed cannabis on a daily basis. Why am I saying that? For the simple reason it is important to face the data brought to us by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictions to compare it to what we all talked about here when we talked about the state of drugs in the Republic of Croatia, the types of drugs and their use. It was also heard that only a small part of the consumption was covered by some treatment, and it was concluded that such persons could be covered by so-called ‘the treatment’. short interventions they discussed in different environments. From primary health care, recreational environments within outrich activities and the like. Examples of implementation of short interventions in several European countries are also presented. I thought it was not convenient but suitable perhaps an example from Catalonia, Spain, where a short intervention project was carried out in primary health care covering all primary health care doctors and specialists for working with people who manifest problems related to alcohol consumption, because we warned that addictions were not just drug addictions, but alcohol, gambling, we were talking about new types of addiction. The cooperation of the mentioned experts resulted in increased inflows of patients from primary health care in specialised centres for the treatment of alcoholism. Short interventions or so-called Short interventions are also carried out in Germany, within the framework of the doctor’s education, there are 50 hours for the topic of alcohol addiction, tobacco, medicines, illegal drugs as well as practical use of motivational interviews. The results of the evaluation, which included pre-testing, education and post-testing, showed that doctors changed their behaviour and prescribed medicines less after education. As one of the possible environments for the implementation of short interventions, emergency rooms were also mentioned, some alternative approaches were presented to short interventions. How the United Kingdom handles this, for example, they have spent so - called “the Great Britain. ” As part of the programme, a six-month education on motivational interviewing of young people working in youth clubs took place. While the data from the application user is collected via a smartphone device. The advantages of this approach were said in a simple way to young people, brought problems closer and received real-time information. Education covered 150 employees, spent screening 2,000 young people for drug abuse, and then intervention covered 800 people. You know all this, of course, you're familiar with it, but I think we might be some of this, and I hope we can implement it in Croatia as well. In Germany, an innovative approach to advisory work is being implemented with parents, and as it could be heard, Germany is interested in co-operation in the implementation of the project, this project with other countries, as well as with Croatia. A publication is expected to be produced where we will be able to obtain accurate data, information on terminology, challenges, and concrete tools for implementing so-called "Tables". short interventions. The results of the project that took place as part of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction will be available during May 2013 and it will be a good thing that we can look at them as well, and the aim of the project is of course to exchange and promote the network's potential for implementation of the programme. A particular problem in the implementation of interventions is projects, i.e. interventions as they say, for which there is actually no evidence of their effectiveness, and we have often said here that we don't really know what the final results are. Fighting drugs will be hard to win, fighting the addictions of any kind equally, but it would be good to know what the results are. There is no doubt that it is necessary to co-operate with international organisations that monitor the drug situation and intoxicating substances on the market, and that is how we at the HDZ Club will support this. But I would just like to remind you of some results, some numbers that are devastating, which are not good that in 2011, nearly 8,000 people were treated with various forms of drug addiction in the Republic of Croatia, that we have 2,000 new people who were treated with drug addiction without mentioning enough addictions that are on the rise. So here's what I said, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs has seen that need to work on it, that's alcohol consumption, gambling addiction and betting. However, we return to the addicts and the issue that the government is specifically taking on improving the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts except in the medical frameworks. The fact is that addiction is a complex problem that needs to be seen from psychological, sociological, legal, medical and other aspects, and unfortunately put the most emphasis on that medical treatment where we have more and more consumers of various types of psychopharmacs and institutions and associations dealing with psychosocial treatment are increasingly empty or semi-empty. The question arises, can we talk about some of the influences of the lobby here, would we not like to believe that it is, or is it, a lack of interest in dealing with the problem of addiction. It's a devastating fact that even the number, actually, that the number of heroin addicts is not on the rise, but it's a devastating fact that the number of gambling and alcohol addicts is on the rise. Associations and treatment communities will remember, which were many in the Republic of Croatia and still exist, which only worked with addicts on intoxicating funds, had waiting lists. Today, when they work with all forms of addiction and even accept addicts of so-called. Double diagnosis is half empty. And the question is, why? The answer is clear, all forms of pharmacological treatment are easily available and addicts are obviously not motivated to establish permanent abstinence or psychosocial treatment. I would therefore appeal or call on those responsible to deal more with the prevention of all forms of addiction, and to enable equal treatment and funding to NGOs that have proven in the past, which have proved their existence and justified their existence and have had results in this area, as well as other state institutions and local, regional self-government institutions, because, let me say, they are in a slightly unequal position right now. In the amendments to the law, here, which we were just talking about, is a good measure, it is a protective measure of mandatory treatment, it is pronounced with a conditional person which is good because addicts need treatment anyway, they need professional help and not punishment. The HDZ Club will support the confirmation of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35175	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported, Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35176	Thank you. Dear colleagues agreeing with you and especially wanting to highlight the necessity of fighting the entire community against this, by health and by life-threatening phenomena. You gave a few statistical indicators. I would like to remind you that according to the data of our national strategy this year for 2012-2017. They're very devastating data. In our register of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, so the latest data is for 2010. More than 30,000 people are registered in Croatia, therefore, according to this data 30 thousand 290 but it should also be reminded that it is throughout Europe and we are today discussing an agreement within our continent. According to these indicators, between 25 and 17 thousand people die annually in Europe from deaths associated with drug abuse. And at least as far as expansion in the world is concerned and defeating the data that at least once the drugs took from the United Nations between 150 and 170 thousand people. It is somewhere between 3 and 6% of the total population between 15 and 64 and if we make sure that up to 262 thousand people die in the world because of drug abuse, then we must be aware that Croatia is not of it, we cannot solve this problem on our own, we have to solve it both within Europe and within the world, and therefore we also support every effort that goes in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35177	Thank you. We've got an answer, comrade Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35178	Thank you very much. I agree with you, fellow Buric. But what we haven't said may not be this item on the agenda. We didn't touch what they were. Drug addict side effects, which is criminality, that's violence, domestic violence, all kinds of things. So that's a problem we have to look at if we're talking about drugs. What's good and a lot of things aren't good. And today, the government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed budget rebalancing. At least it is good that there are no reduced budgets for treatment, i.e. for the Government of the Republic of Croatia's drug control office, so at least this is not reduced and we know it should be increased and that such offices should have perhaps stronger capacities and that we should strengthen them at all other levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35179	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Igor Čeek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35180	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear proposings, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a very important topic, because the evil of today all over the world, which unfortunately, except for the world, also places the same intensity on Croatia. It's called drugs, regardless of whether it's classified as light or heavy intoxicating drugs. There's no difference for us in HDSSB. Therefore, our country's participation in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is of paramount importance. The geographical position of Croatia is such that from the mainland and from the sea, large dealers often go through us to raid drug trafficking towards neighbouring countries. Unfortunately, something remains in Croatia, for our youth, even in the middle years, which are most often not registered as addicts. Although systematically working on prevention, education has been growing since preschool age. That means the number of dealers doesn't go down. Despite the great punishments if they get caught. It's a busy job and it's a public secret that in almost every beautiful corner of ours you can buy any kind of drugs. In view of this, it is necessary to add this law on the validation of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. The centre was established in 1993 as it united access to the drug problem of all EU member states because the EU's drug access centre was different. The government of the Republic of Croatia launched informal co-operation with the European centre in 2003. The government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 2007 to launch a procedure for the conclusion of an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. So today this law confirms this agreement and so be it. We may be late, but it should certainly be included in the European Monitoring Centre for Drug Addiction. How much and how is membership in the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs financed? Croatia pays contributions on behalf of membership fee. This contribution amounts to 374 thousand kuna in 2013 and is set out in the article of this Treaty during the first four years. During the first year, it amounts to 100,000 euros, during the second year of 150 thousand euros, during the third 210 thousand euros, during the fourth year of 271 thousand euros. The Republic of Croatia may, in part, use Union assistance to pay its contribution to the centre by making the maximum contribution of the Union during the first year of participation at 75%, 60% during the second year of participation and 50% in the following years. Will we be able or will we be able to withdraw that amount? We sincerely hope we will because what is very important is working to prevent drug abuse. And the HDSSB club will generously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35181	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. I thank the Deputy Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35182	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 300. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 114 votes for the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Dependence in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35183	We continue with a united debate on - Final proposal of the Law on General Use Matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 286, - Final proposal of the Law on food additives, flavours and food enzymes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 288, - Final proposal of the Law on the Import of Food and Food for Animals from third countries, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 292, - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 289, - Final proposal of the Law on Food and Health Claims and nourished nutrients emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 297, - Final proposal of the Food Act for specific nutritional needs, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 303, - Final proposal of the Law on Contaminants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 302 The proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the suggestions in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received reports. On behalf of the promoter Deputy Minister of Health, Marijan Cesarek and his associate. You don't have to. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless we start arguing. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the debate was shared by Stjepan Milinkovic and Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's where I start to say the HDZ Club will support this bill. But I must immediately say that I am not happy with the fact that when we have 7 very significant laws for me I would say the health of people, generally in this country, obviously because it may not be politically attractive and I can't get a number of points at it in the assembly sitting twenty people just and it seems that at this point there's no scandal with it maybe when it was aflatoxins a few weeks ago then it would probably be full of fat and everyone would be discussing and everyone would have something to say. At this point, it is not attractive to anyone, although it is very, very important laws, laws concerning each of us, every citizen of Croatia. But I would ask in general by looking at a few questions regarding these laws, and about certain details, Col. Milinkovic will say something. One of my questions when it came to me when I analyzed these laws is, in fact, why are some of these laws being passed at all? In fact, certain things that are in them have already been solved. We have them legitimately well solved, for example, if we talk about the Food Health Claims Act and nutritious foods, we have the Food Law of 2007 or the eighth and eleventh year, we have the Food and Health Claims Regulation, the Regulation on Nutrient Food, and it's 2011 relatively fresh. Similarly, with some of these laws, for example, if we talk about the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, we have the area resolved in fact by the Food and Food Enzymes Act 2010, the Regulation on food additives was the last one in 2012, so the question is why we are passing these laws, because I must very clearly not ask the EU to ask us, so they are just asking us to solve this area, and not how we are going to solve it. And we've got some things solved. Another question I have asked myself is good if we are doing these laws why we are only passing them today because some of these laws, if they are in line with EU directives, are, for example, the last EU directive adopted in 2009. Today we are in 2013 according to why we are only now passing these laws or, say, when we talk about the Contaminants Act, then the directive is the last of March last year according to this year. Then why do you have these laws now? However, other general remarks may be related to penalties. I have often expressed my view when it comes to health laws and especially when it comes to laws relating to the health of the population that our penalties are far too mild. And in the proposals of all these laws, the most possible punishment for a company that commits a very, very serious crime that is then referred seriously to human health is the maximum penalty in some laws of 100,000 kuna, and in some cases when it comes to the Law on the Import of Food and Food for Animals from third countries, only 50,000 kuna. When we talk about this law, it's the law that, as I said, might have caused a heated discussion a few weeks ago because the problems our farmers faced, and all of us at that time were tied to the subject of this law. Imagine, the maximum penalty is possible only 50,000 kuna for a company that has, for example, introduced something that will significantly harm people's health, and we know that court practice is such that such a maximum penalty is never given. And in fact, when you look at those penalties, then you can see that companies will sometimes even be paid off, maybe risk that kind of punishment because the profit they get from breaking the law will actually be far greater and that's what's not good. More important, perhaps, to mention a problem that has been serious and for a long time, and that is the issue of implementing these laws. So we often have very good regulations, and as I said, even from that area, we have regulations that are quite acceptable and that regulate a certain area quite well but the problem is whether they are and how much they are spent in real life. If you open today's newspaper, any newspaper today, you will find a series of ads that will claim that certain products have some properties of the treatment of certain diseases. This is also forbidden and sanctioned by current regulations, but there is really no greater effect simply because those who break it are almost never sanctioned. Therefore, the fact that these legal proposals have been well resolved, and I must admit that I am not at all calmed down because if they have not been properly implemented, I am not convinced that these regulations will indeed be implemented, and this is a particularly delicate issue of health claims where you give false hope to people with some serious diseases and sell them for decent money products for which they are directly or indirectly suggested that they will cure some serious disease, and we all know that this is not true. It will therefore be very important whether these new laws will be implemented in a similar way as so far. not very successfully, and whether it will be tolerated in our society to give certain product characteristics in this way, they sell these products even though it is not in accordance with current legislation, and it certainly will not be in line with these regulations that are listed here. If it is already in line with European Union regulations, for example, when we talk about this proposal for a law implementing the European Parliament's regulation, it does not mention at all an IT platform, or the Register of Biocidal Products, one R4B5 which would probably be well mentioned because it will allow for the exchange of information between different countries, as well as informing the public about some of these things. Not wanting to extend, I would like to point out just one more thing and actually one more request to the promoter. Since I know that in this House everything the opposition proposes is ad limine rejected, I would suggest that the amendment of the Government supplement one thing and that is Article 9. The proposal for a food law for specific nutritional needs where Article 9(2)(c) provides an obligation to indicate the carbohydrate content of proteins and fats, however, it is obvious that the taste salt has been omitted. So here's my proposal, it would be good for both saturated and unsatisfactory fats to be listed inside, but if it's complicated for any reason, I think we should definitely take this opportunity to put on this important commitment that all European countries are prescribing. Well, here's my suggestion: The motion is to supplement this with your amendment and make a commitment to the content of the kitchen salt inside. I'd be done with it, and my colleague Milinkovic will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35185	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about food, and we're certainly all interested in healthy food, of course, and those items that come into contact with food. Namely, there are subjects of general use that can also have their own adverse effects. This legal framework is really so complex, if only those regulations and all those regulations to which they are called could be read almost during the entire debate, all 15 minutes, and it could be the impression that almost even the needle cannot be drawn along with such a framework, but here until such circumstances happen as they happened a short time ago, then we all start to deal intensively with it and then the most regrettable thing is that then the first reaction was when this incident with aflatoxins occurred that it was our farmer's fault. It's really regrettable for me to accept. Of course, the system is also those who carry out controls and all together is clearly defined by the inspectors and all that stands, only one problem is that there is too little control. It's too small a number of controls, there's a problem, I'm sure it's necessary to refer to it. And the other thing, now according to these new regulations, now producers themselves should control their own controls, so we should do our own work, and here we are a little restrained about these controls. Here we had a short time ago, so this incident with aflatoxins reading and tracking the media isn't long enough to be with olive oil where it's also indicated. And, of course, with eggs and many other foods. And what's the key? Which is the key would be best in that part other than these controls to produce sufficient quantities of quality food. We have the potential we said yesterday for almost 25 million diets with food, and the other thing isn't our soil so contaminated that we can also produce quality food. But in that part, it certainly needs to be supported, and unfortunately here is the situation in our village and in agriculture it is such that our farmers can barely exist and can really work hard under these circumstances. I think that in these of all these discussions, of course, my colleague Reiner has touched partly and biocidal products and so on, but certainly a special place should be occupied by the contaminants that are specifically listed here. I've prepared myself, but since I don't have time for these events, I don't have time to be very brief. In fact, we often think that toxic substances come from only the sources created by man but the fact that many can naturally be present in food. So toxic substances in food can be its natural constituents or an unnatural ingredient resulting from the contamination of food in the chain of production. Food contaminants may reach uncontrollably from the environment or may be residuals, residues of human treatment at different stages of production. Therefore, contaminants are substances not deliberately added to food but result from food contamination during production, packaging, transport, food processing or as a consequence of some natural processes. Chemical contaminants that can be found in food, and given their source, we can divide them into natural, so such as microtoxins that were spoken of from mold and enterotoxins from bacteria. Contaminants of course from environments such as dioxins, polycyclic biphenyls, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons continue to be contaminants resulting from food processing such as chlorine, propanols, acrylamide, cleaning agents and others. So these are all contaminants that can make special places and there are heavy metals. A special place is certainly occupied by pesticides that only we fear and fear will be a particular problem through due course and pesticides. But, of course, these aflatoxins have raised us so I'd say the attention to a higher level, and in that part we need to make maximum efforts, so in that part and food preparation, animal food preparation. They're preparing the same food because it's tied to this law, therefore, to the import of food. Surely there was more hearing when it was dry, so it intervened when it was warned that quality food could then not presently appear because surely cellulose diet contributes to the reduction of both aflatoxins and all of these other harmful factors. So, of course, this legislative framework I must conclude will contribute to this, therefore, to the promotion, but also to the general measures that must be taken by the ministry, which must be made by the ministries, regardless of the jurisdiction to produce sufficient quantities of quality food for our farmers to exist, so that they can eat healthy food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35186	Thank you, too. At the presentation of Vice President Reiner, we have one replica, Ana Komaric Devcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35187	Your Honor, Vice President, I thank you. My colleague Reiner, you mentioned the advertising of the so-called so-called Reiner. medicines with a miraculous effect on some diseases and as a member of the Health Committee, I agree with you. The Committee therefore took the view that this phenomenon should be severely punished and I absolutely agree that this problem is not only the problem of this directive. This problem has certainly been back 15 years since we opened the market and since some producers were so-called. The drugs started to catch in the blurry. Because when a man is sick, he reaches out to all sorts of solutions and we simply face the fact that every day in the paper we have a variety of commercials that solve cancer, diabetes, various other diseases, which you and I certainly know is not true. Besides, these drugs are of very questionable origin. They don't know much about their origins, much less about their composition, and even less about their actual action. And that's why I absolutely agree with you, but the board has taken such a stand that such advertising and the control of such drugs should be served.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35188	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35189	Thank you. Well, I'm glad we're in agreement, and I think everyone will agree with that, with the fact that I have to make it clear that neither the board's position is going to be much help. There are mechanisms, there are instruments that are the Ministry of Health because there are inspections that can do it. Of course, it's always a question of whether he'll deal with it. Because I'm saying again, if we see these ads every day in the paper for substances, it's not drugs because they're writing drugs to us, then someone else would probably react, and this is how they write it, and I don't know it, or that kind of disease, then of course it's kind of suggesting to poor sick people who sometimes grab a straw that it'll help them, and of course it's just pulling money out of their pockets. Therefore, it is very important to implement existing rules, but also those that we bring about, for example, general application items where we have in Article 3(3) again, where the same products that come into contact with skin and mucous membranes contain health claims. So again, we have very one ticklish thing as soon as the health claims are mentioned, it must be proven reliably because otherwise the sick people, the most vulnerable group is sold a candle deadline, their hard-earned money is drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35190	Thank you, too. We have two replicas at the presentation of colleagues Milinkovic. First colleague Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have indicated that there is not enough control, so you have also mentioned olive oil as one of the possible mistakes, or problems that will be in the future. We already have a problem, and he proved himself and proved himself a month ago in Omis Association of Olivers and Oilers "Pajchuša", it seems to me that it was called, had a competition and took away 10-ac of olive oil with label in the store extra virgin olive oil and at the Public Health Office in Split was an analysis and only one of those 10-ac oil belonged to that category, meaning extra virgin. So we won't have a problem in the future, but we already have a problem with olive oil today, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35192	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm certainly glad that you noticed this claim about olive oil and declaring yourself, and certainly there's no one here in this, a small number of maybe not olive oil fans and a lot of times for those commercials a lot of people fall for that commercial where it says extra virgin, and in the end it turns out, and I've heard the opinion of various experts that it's even about garbage let's say. Maybe that's the information. But it's not just the olive oil, the problem is, here we come to our biggest Easter holiday, the problem is in the eggs. Likewise, where the profession is also warned, it warns of certain problems with regard to many other food products where control is indeed needed. But in that part is certainly the moment where the producers or perhaps importers themselves took the authority to control it, it makes the problem even bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35194	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Igor Chesek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35195	Thank you very much, Vice President. You are familiar with the problem of food health and you often express it in the Assembly, but I would ask you, in fact I do not know if I refer the question to the right address, I would rather ask the representative of the legislators of these laws to say something to the Croatian public about the experience of applying these legal provisions in EU countries and, above all, the system of control of the production and exchange of goods. Because our chain shelves are full of stuff that we usually import. Obviously, where everything is better organized than with us, there's not much that's right. We do import everything and everything, and every customer will tell you that you can't be sure that he bought health care supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35196	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Czechs have touched you in any case a very good question and what is the situation in the EU I cannot answer exactly that question, but I can certainly say what is the situation with us. In addition to that, I think a statement is a short time ago, and I think the Chief State Inspector who said that what is used and bought in our large trade chains might not be taken by any means. I think it's something like that, but maybe I'm misrepresenting it. But the problem is that each other is getting involved, and that's how our citizens are buying today? Those ads that come by the houses that we're all kind of already making us at some point right now we might be on them in some way already angry, many of them even throw them away, you know how they buy today? They place it, they bring it home and they lay it on the table and then they look, and now it's there and then it's on its way to the race. It's our reality, it's ours. We are looking at our reality, and our reality is this race, uncertainty and, of course, growing poverty, which is already according to the latest statistics almost 35% and goes on unfortunately at this unemployment rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35198	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the debate was shared by Igor Češek and Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. ... You won't share? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you guys are just gonna argue? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35199	There you go, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister Marianne. Here's my colleague Reiner, I'm going to say right away that the HDSSB club will support this package of laws because they are primarily aimed at protecting people. Indeed, it may not be a top political topic, but even when these are political topics in the Croatian Parliament he looks like this over the week so I wouldn't say half empty but looks really filled up like this, sometimes it looks miserable and miserable. It is filled on Fridays when the party machinery comes to find its hand and very soon that session ends. And that's a common-known thing when conditions are met we'll vote on certain things. But here's this package of laws that I don't repeat everything the predecessors have said and even in these replicas, I really hope that with these legal solutions we're going to bring into order everything practically that surrounds a man as an individual but also a man in a community. It was a family, it was a social community. That's not where I'm thinking of some other community to fence myself up right now, is it? So here are a few things that I want first of all to point out that for example in many, still in many units of local self-government supply drinking water for which many units of local self-government are not to blame still go to those outdated and even those home connections and home installations are made with lead pipes that also affect the health of the population and human health. Regarding, here's another first of all proposal and the Ministry of Health or Health now according to the new, but also the Ministry of Agriculture to go into a stronger equipment laboratory in the area of the Republic of Croatia, is it obvious that we have experts in these areas, but we still don't have enough equipment, enough instruments, so here's the milk samples we wouldn't have to send to European laboratories. Maybe it's enough to look at all of us, and even on this public television or party television, enough to look at what it used to be called an economic-propagand program, and indeed from the subject of general use to various different means used in food production, to various appliances, preparations, so on. medicines. I could, here's where no sex gets mad at me, who's from, so they won't speak in either male or female, but from one flabby person after using those preparations or devices becomes in the red Sonja or Connan Barbara line. So, and I agree here with my colleague without any atheist, without any content, but this is not only advertised on these private media, but is advertised in media press, so in printed content but also on Croatian radio television. As far as import issues are concerned, I remembered that I don't know the essence of the commercial, there was some weight loss tea from which with forgiveness many of those who used, I don't know what it was called some mystery was, many got and really lost weight from stomach and stomach problems. As for the very imports of food, therefore used in human consumption, but also the import of animal food continues to be one huge defeating fact that Croatia continues to import food for $2.2 billion, exports for only $1.2 billion. Although the amount of food that Croatia is exporting is far greater than that imported only apparently in that exchange we get almost 50% less money. There is also a question of genetically modified food, and now we can get to everything on the shelves, not just these large shopping malls, but on the shelves of all shops on a small and large scale in the Republic of Croatia. And apparently, all those who enter these shops must wear certain glasses or increase in order to really read the declaration of the product. So here's the mention of olive oil, it obviously didn't come from Dalmatia, it didn't come from Croatia, although there may be some cooperative on that sticker, perhaps even fictitious from Dalmatia, and that oil was produced in Spain, in Italy, Morocco, Tunisia, not to mention those bags that I was carrying there. It's clear to me that bananas can't be produced, perhaps under some special conditions, but it's economically invaluable, but to import both wheat and corn, and potatoes, and tomatoes. It's just enough to look at what we first agreed to, and that pickle as it is said in Dalmatia kukumar, so as not to say anything else, that tomato, tomatoes or pomador must also have a certain size, to that apricot, peaches, etc. etc. There is a question of what, perhaps the most important and also for Slavonia and Croatia, which we still do not have a link, and that is because here is the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture should be involved. To not be like that Cimer Fry series when foreign guests come to us and offer even the Czech pate to the waiter that the Czech pasture should not be angry with Jiri Menzel because he made an exceptional film about tourism and participation of the Czechs in tourism in Croatia, but it is certainly a question if you turn a little bit of declaration on meat products then you see that the pig is not from Croatia, it is not from Slavonia, that lamb is not from Pag, not from Slavonia, it is not from Vrgorec, it comes from Romania, some kinds of meat coming from China, that beef, game that Croatia really has one great potential coming from New Zealand, Australia, that we are practically importing everything and even importing dry leaves as the subject of general use. So I think that we should make a comprehensive campaign in a way that is indeed somewhere on the trail of what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has started and that is, above all, that action has remained with certain bandages, which is to protect, above all, domestic Croatian production, and to be competitors on the market at a price but also in quality and to buy as citizens in Croatia. Then there'll be more real extra virgin oil and less garbage on the shelves and the nice decorated packaging. And here's what might happen to us, I remember that many of us in the '80s had those consequences, those Chernobyl disasters, because there were probably laws like this that might have been written by other standards, but there was no real control, so many were and some are still under the influence of that radioactivity now. Thank you. I don't think of myself here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35200	Thank you. We have one replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35201	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister and colleague Vinkovic. I'm going to vote for this as well as HDZ normally this is a proposal or law, so we need to bring it in line, and we need to coordinate everything okay. I'd just like to look back on what you've done, and we're going to seduce what we're voting on right now to introduce order into some jobs and in the Croatian state where it's been a mess so far. God gave it to me. He won't. Because all we're going to vote today, we already have it in Croatian positive legal regulations, everything. It's just a little bit modified, adjusted according to some word needs. My colleagues, I'll explain it to you, but basically, we have laws that we don't respect, and we have Tunisian oil written that it's from Solta, and it's not. But what I'm saying is, we're not going to introduce order, these people in the EU have some order more than we do, but let's not touch them too much in their order because they have the order we're aligning with now, and then they happen to eat horses instead of veal and who's going to know how many months and years. And here we are, still not eating instead of veal. I'd like to say that we don't have to feel at all and sophisticated and have a small-value complex. We just need a little bit to be a country and it's not even on the toilet as it would be concluded when we get along with these lists now that everything's going to be okay. It's not gonna be okay. We'll eat the horse if we don't make our own arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35202	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35203	Well, dear colleague Marasovic, I have a graduation. So I initially expressed my faith that this alignment would bring some order, but in the end I said that regardless of what was written on paper according to those standards, I don't mean the former state now, but the standards that were then in health and agriculture that without control, this remains a dead letter on paper. And what needs to be insisted on, in any case, is strengthening Croatian food production, strengthening competitiveness, increasing exports and, above all, it depends on ourselves, on ourselves. I'm in favour of really buying Croatian. So, first of all, when we go in and into those retail chains for those who are delinquent, they will have glasses even though those who do not necessarily increase because only on those declarations do you see where this particular product comes from. I've been watching for example. The asparagus that looked like Rambarde, Van Gogh painted them. But I watched a show that they grow there by a nuclear power plant somewhere in China where both practical and radioactive waste comes out, etc., etc. and probably through certain networks, and that part comes to Croatia. Not to mention all this stuff we're really importing and we're practically eating garbage, not homemade.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35204	Thanks, buddy. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. For today, we'll be done with our work. Tomorrow we begin with the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2011 and the implementation of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2011. See you tomorrow!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35205	Final proposal of the Law on General Use, Emergency, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 286. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the Deputy Minister of Health of the Honorable Marian Cesarik to show himself. Amendment No. 1. The Legislative Committee, it's just one yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35206	The amendment is not accepted because it does not matter nature, does not affect the content of the legislative proposal and does not bring new understanding of the norm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35207	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35208	We accept an argument on behalf of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-21-0.u35209	Thank you very much. The amendment is withdrawing. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that it is unanimous with 117 votes for the adopted Law on general application matters in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
