ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47617	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. We continue with the 9th session and the point... Here you go, Vice President Reiner. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47618	Dear Madam Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, please rest for 20 minutes. In fact, the media reported that Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic sent a non-paper yesterday complaining that there is no reason for sanctions on Croatia because he intends to fulfil all obligations in connection with a European arrest warrant popularly known as Lex Perkovic, which has caused such terrible damage to Croatian interests, and completely unnecessary. In this, media reportedly announced to the European Commission that the law would be held at yesterday's cabinet session. As yesterday's cabinet session passed, and this law has not been mentioned at all, we are looking for a break, but it is primarily for the Prime Minister to come here and explain to parliamentarians and the entire Croatian public what it is. To give him time, we ask for 20 minutes so that he can move to the other side of Mark's square and explain to us, I also tell the Croatian public, whether it is true, whether it is again the European Commission or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47619	Thank you. My colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47620	Madam Vice President, we're also looking for a break, but 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47621	I'm setting a break by 9.45. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] After a break requested by the clubs, the first one will speak on behalf of HDZ Club Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47623	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As I have already said in my request for this break, the media reported that the prime minister announced that yesterday's session of the government would discuss the European arrest warrant law or "lex Perkovic" and that it would be on the trail of what the European Commission was looking for. At yesterday's government meeting, there was no question about it. It is not clear to us, of course, if it is true that it was announced why it happened and we expected and we asked the prime minister to come here and explain whether the media was misreporting it or is it true, so the Croatian government once again deceived the European Commission and of course Croatian citizens. The Prime Minister did not find it necessary to explain these actions to parliamentarians because he obviously considers us irrelevant. He's shown it on many occasions. However, if what the media announced is true, and we have no reason to doubt that the prime minister and the government have promised that this law that caused so much damage to Croatia at yesterday's session will change and have not done so, it is only another proof of the extreme unbelief of both the prime minister and the government and their pathetic attempts to deceive, to deceive the European institutions. It is the result of this twisting, duplicity, cynicism and arrogance towards the European institutions that, for example, the German newspaper is writing and I quote, "Croatia was supposed to be a role model for others in the region just over two months ago, and instead it has become a frightening example" so the damage that none of the war has done to Croatia, and now it has been done not only to the citizens of Croatia but it will obviously have an impact on other countries in the region. We seem naively to believe that both Mr Milanovic and SDP sincerely support Croatia's European path because they persistently reassured us. It is now seen that it was not true and that their objectives were not pro-European. Croatia, by entering the EU, politically exited from the Balkans for so long as it wanted and sought. In this regard, I would like to make it clear that in this case, the Balkans, of course, are not a geographical concept but a state of spirit, mentality, a cultural phenomenon. Unfortunately, Croatia has left the Balkans politically but apparently the Balkans have remained deep in the hearts of some and can't get it out so easily. Since Prime Minister Milanovic liked to quote Latin proverbs and sayings at least at the beginning of his term, I expected him to be here, let me do so too, and by paraphrasing the words of Ciceron in the first sentence of Katilini, I will say "quousque tandem abutre Milanović patientia nostra" or Croatian until you and your government abuse our patience and not only the patience of parliamentary representatives and Croatian citizens, but as is now visible and the whole of the EU. Since this government is obviously unable to lead this country, and it is clear to everyone today, if they cared about Croatia and Croatian citizens to whom they do so much damage all the time, I call for both the prime minister and the government to resign and thus finally enable Croatian citizens to benefit from joining the EU, not only shame, damage and quarrel with its institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47624	On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47625	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, a lot of things are being written and spoken and said these days, and the fact is that a single journal published an alleged letter and the fact is that it said that the amendments to the law would be discussed yesterday at the government's session, and the fact is also that no one had denied it. But I don't want to discuss it based on speculation in the media, it would be good to always discuss just the scale of things. And the measure of the matter is that the law has been amended three days before we join the EU, that we have changed what we have signed, that we have signed one, and that we have entered and become the 28th member of the EU and, of course, as a state, we have a problem to solve. And as for us in our club, President Milanovic should come to the Croatian Parliament when the bill is over, when it is amended and when it will come to the agenda. We expect it to be next week. Although it was normal and logical in view of the European Commission's request or Commissioner Reding to do so this week. I remind you, my colleagues and colleagues, once again because I think it is neither in accordance with the Constitution nor in accordance with our Rules of Procedure that there are amendments and additions to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU. The proposal to amend the law, which abolished the 2002 restriction, was filed by our club, so independent representatives and Croatian citizens' parties. It is also a big question for me because this very Parliament, the majority in Parliament, has decided not to discuss the amendment to the law and that the proposal is now being amended by the law, which the whole of Europe is now turning to the 85th place of the agenda. It certainly speaks of the dignity of the Croatian Assembly to which we contribute. I am very sorry, and I will repeat it again here in the Croatian Parliament, which creates an impression of some dispute between Mrs Reding and the Government, i.e. Mrs Reding and the Republic of Croatia. It was indeed a strict supervisor over what we did, especially in Chapter 23, but when it gained confidence and when it saw that we were working with full strength and in the best interests of the Republic of Croatia and in the best interest of what there was a consensus so rare in Croatia of all political forces, i.e. relevant political forces, which is entering the European Union. She helped and she was among those responsible for the fact that Croatia did not get monitoring after entering, especially of course in the area of justice and it should be appreciated and that fact should be respected. So Mrs Reding is always ready to talk and she's ready for dialogue, but the Pacta Sunt Servanda, we've signed something, and now that here and now there are some speculation coming up again to agree on some compromise, that the law will also change, that it will enter into force on 1 January 2014. We don't think that's good either. We signed something else. The contract we signed says something else, so that the European arrest warrant is activated by our entry into the European Union, so on 1 July 2013, and that is the fact. We have amended those rules, when we return them to what the European Commission is looking for, not what Vivian Reding is asking for, but what we have signed, which we have agreed to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and then by law then I believe everyone here in the assembly will support it and I believe that all the opposition with the European Commission will stop and that this episode will not be forgotten will never be forgotten but will be removed from the agenda. Trust is hard to gain, we as a state trust very, very hard to acquire, and it's as easy as we see it to lose. So it's time for the government to react. In my opinion, the government should have called for a session, as soon as the problem came to change the law, but if we do not expect it to happen at the beginning of next week and that the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and that you colleagues and colleagues will decide on it, will be united with a proposal to amend the law tabled by the Independent Representatives and the HGS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u47626	Thank you very much. And now we're going to go to seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 445 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the draft law of the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts, Drazen Pros, will be followed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48377	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciated representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cooperatives, so one law which wants to continue to improve the institutional framework in which the conditions are created for further development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and of course cooperatives to open up greater opportunities for the entrepreneurial way of doing business, thus allowing one support for adaptation and entry into international markets, in particular the European Union's markets, to also enable faster development based on new technologies, environmental production, but what is crucial to exercise effective control of the application of cooperative principles and to improve the structure and functioning of the cooperative system. This proposal also seeks to launch greater economic activities of cooperatives in less populated and rural areas and thus more actively through cooperatives' participation in stopping, as well as to stop the migration of the population and create entrepreneurial opportunities for young people in areas that are less economically developed. Let us show in a few words what these key issues are that are being regulated by this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Cooperatives. So first of all, we said to improve the structure and functioning of the cooperative system, so the public powers of the Croatian Association Association as a roof organisation of all cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia are being arranged. In the formation of the Croatian Alliance, cooperatives are closer to determining its bodies and its competences, therefore with the existing ones, it is the president, the representative assembly, the supervisory board, and this proposal introduces the new body of the Management Board, and in order to strengthen the implementation of the decisions of the representative assembly. It has also been established that the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives is managed by members through their representatives in the Croatian Union of Cooperatives' representative assembly, the way of establishing the first representative assembly is also determined. What is very important is the introduction of provisions defining the enforcement of supervision of the application of laws and regulations adopted on the basis of which the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts implements measures to remove the illegality or irregularities which MINGPO determines on the basis of the supervision carried out in the Croatian Cooperative Union. More specifically, a cooperative infringement manifested in such a way that cooperatives in their work do not adhere to cooperative principles or values, and specialised cooperative alliances are added. Therefore, the principle of applying a single cooperative system to other forms of organisation and work of members of the Croatian Association. The law gives one definition of cooperative. So this highlights the specificities by which the cooperative differs from other societies. It includes and describes the cooperative values and principles on which the cooperative is based and the date of clarification of certain concepts. When we talk about the specificities of cooperatives compared to other societies, because we know that cooperatives always compare with companies. There are elements to compare them with but there are also differences that are difficult to compare. The system in which the only and only crucial amount of profit achieved in the financial year is taken as the only indicator of the success of the work in the case of cooperatives is actually not worth it. Cooperatives should not only be business successes, but they must take into account and evaluate the other benefits resulting from the cooperative’s work. Therefore, the objective of the cooperative is not only to gain profits but also to achieve the benefits and interests of the members of the cooperative and the local community in which the cooperative operates. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law will therefore solve those problems and shortcomings in the current regulation that have been established in practice, and cooperatives will receive an appropriate environment for their work which is appropriate for both current times and circumstances. What is important is that cooperatives must therefore have an equal position in relation to other market entities. A few words about the situation in Croatian cooperative, so Croatian cooperative has 150 years of tradition and the first cooperative was in Komiža in 1862. Cooperatives have had a significant, significant impact both on regional economic development and on employment throughout this period, as well as on the development of local communities. So today in the Republic of Croatia we have more than 1100 cooperatives with more than 1,300 members and about 2700 employees. Most cooperatives certainly according to tradition are in agriculture and forestry about 40%, processing industry, services. But what needs to be particularly highlighted is the development of fishing cooperatives. In recent years, it's actually the most promising sector in the cooperative industry itself. Therefore, all these indicators, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft, continue to continue to continue to create a stimulating framework for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship. Of course, with improvements in the ministry's legislative framework, they systematically encouraged the development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship from 2001 to 2012, and during this period cooperatives achieved incentives worth more than 20 million kuna. Cooperatives gather individuals and groups that link common interest and direct them into business through the system and thus reduce the grey economy. Cooperatives are also the way to self-employment and employment. And what is particularly important for economically underdeveloped areas where the use of local resources can be directed into a sustainable economy through cooperatives. The cooperative model is fully in line with the Europe 2020 Strategy, the European Smart Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Strategy. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, let us also say some steps that are being prepared in the further development of cooperative entrepreneurship, so the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts is preparing the development strategy for cooperatives 2014/20. a with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of cooperatives and through further increasing membership in cooperatives, strengthening production service capacities, facilitating access to funding and, of course, continued education of members and cooperative administrations. The strategy will definitely serve as a basis for withdrawing funds from EU funds for projects to develop cooperative entrepreneurship. Let us not forget that in that financial envelope 2014/20. The Croatian small economy will have 1.2 billion euros at its disposal. In this context, therefore, there will also be a part that will be exclusively intended to encourage cooperative entrepreneurship. With Croatia's accession to the EU by opening the market for the largest but also the most demanding market, markets of over 500 million cooperatives are playing an even more important role in strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. The benefits of association, the combined market performance, are indeed multiple. Among other things, it is also a reduction in the cost of business and an increase in production service capacities and a easier appearance on the market and of course joint marketing performances, and we certainly expect that the interest in association with cooperatives will be increasing. The Ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts in cooperation with other ministries, other relevant bodies will continue to develop cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia through the creation of such an encouraging framework for the integration and networking of cooperatives by encouraging education in cooperative society, promoting cooperativeship as a desirable and competitive form of economic action. It is certain that by adapting to European standards, Croatian cooperatives become complementary to the European and able to join the European cooperative network. And that is why cooperation with European cooperatives requires the same rules of organisation and consistent implementation of cooperative values and principles. By adopting this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act, we are going to move forward in order to improve existing solutions and create conditions and frameworks for further development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. I call on you to accept this proposal to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48378	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Economy, the chairman of the Committee, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48379	Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48380	We had replicas before, I'm sorry. [[You just tell Igor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48381	Well, I can't, I'm listening to the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48382	More like replicas. Col. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48383	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When you get on the table a bill that says you don't need the funds and you secure them in the budget and at the same time you're talking about a theme that simply says in itself that you need to get support from someone so that you can work at all well we know why people join in cooperatives. And a good example of these cooperatives are primarily defense cooperatives but you have just as many cooperatives that unfortunately draw a bad example. And we came to the market that cooperation is precisely in those areas where we in Croatia have an extremely negative experience, which is from the time of the former country, which is a cooperative in agriculture, and such a way of organisation in the EU is very important and in principle one of the practical forms of the organisation of agricultural producers. So we are harmonising legislation formally with the EU, but unfortunately we have not made a real assessment and assessment of the situation at this time. Because it's not enough to harmonise legislation alone, but simply if you make a real assessment and assess the situation at this point, then you can't possibly propose and say in it that you don't need funds. Because you can't do without the resources you need without new funds that will go through the resolution ministries you simply can't make a step in this area. So this is another one of the farsi, we're doing it will be wonderful and wonderful, we've changed the laws, paper all that looks great, but unfortunately on the ground, the situation is what it is. Therefore, if this law does not have support from the state budget and all resolution ministries, unfortunately, will not have an effect because cooperatives are determined to join just those who do not have the opportunity to reach the funds and to place their products equally on the market without talking about how we have practically destroyed the craftsmen's cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48384	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48385	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, we expected more concrete measures, guidelines and, in fact, direct assistance, given the economic opportunities with this amendment and the additions of the Cooperative Act. And what we got from your conversation, you said it was about the functioning of the cooperative system, that is, the conduct of supervision of the alliance, which is, in fact, the only reason for the amendment and addition of this law. And you were talking about strategy, actually again about some bright future. Because what does the ministry actually have to do with private associations? Because these associations are, in fact, voluntary, open, independent and independent society run by its members, not any ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48386	And Ivan Shantek, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48387	Thank you. Here you have said in your statement that cooperatives have contributed significantly to the development of the economy in the last 150 years. Maybe we can agree with some parts of our history in the last 150 years that that was so, in any case until World War II it was, but in that period after World War II somewhere until '53. The cooperative has received such a negative notion that today is still a sign of such that resistances arise precisely in cooperative society as some form of economic development. A fellow Shuker has already talked about defence cooperatives, which in particular have a role to play in areas of special state care, but I must say here, since I live in a field of special state concern that these defence cooperatives did not get the result that we wanted. And if the state finances and provides funds for these cooperatives then these cooperatives exist, however, precisely because of this resistance that cooperatives have in our people's consciousness, their own resources are very rarely invested in cooperatives and therefore the cooperative is no longer in the role that it should be. I've come to the line just to tell you that maybe the ministry should work harder to get the cooperative to take down that label of something Soviet, that it's not a colkoz but a simple form of association and that it should perhaps be a more significant role for the ministry in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48388	Chairman of the Committee on Economy Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48389	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm patient, I'm saved. Allow colleagues and colleagues to inform you orally about the position of the Committee on the Economy since it was held immediately before, you have not received a written report, you will receive it at any time. Thus, at its 26th meeting, the Committee supported the above proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperative Act with the final draft law with one amendment. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The Legislative Committee proposes that a sentence: "Corporate members can carry out activities from the cooperative by personal work without establishing a working relationship" is deleted. This provision is therefore incorporated in the amendments and additions to this proposal for a law on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, and therefore, on the basis of the Act on Temporary Affairs in the Government's procedure, it is more precisely at the stage of drawing up a draft bill and a proposal for an assessment of the effects of that regulation. The public debate begins on 14.10 and will thus be prescribed as we predict it, of course it is the general government policy, so flexibility of employment relations and easier employment until it is accepted. This provision cannot stand in the law, and it is therefore a proposal from the Committee on the Economy to agree on this amendment, but it is best that it explains it itself, so we will probably not be able to vote today, but only when the Government, in accordance with its procedure, determines an indication of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48390	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First in line is a representative of the HDZ club, a colleague named Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48391	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we have amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act, which I have not been able to understand with my best will what it is actually being brought for. The more the assessment of the situation states that these changes want to create an institutional framework in which cooperatives will be given a greater opportunity for the entrepreneurial way of doing business. There are also some goals that I would like to achieve, but I would really like to see what changes in the law will contribute to achieving or achieving these objectives, which is also very ambitious for me to say to the deputy I definitely agree with. Furthermore, why this passing of laws by emergency procedure? It is explained that there are particularly reasonable reasons why these amendments provide assumptions for the continuation of the legal work of the Croatian Cooperative Union which are not provided for by the existing provisions of the Cooperative Act, to establish clear powers and the procedure of supervision of the application of the cooperative principles and values of the Croatian Cooperative Union. So in your assessment of the situation, you state that these changes will open up greater opportunities for the entrepreneurial way of doing business, and the main reason is obviously in the context of the emergency procedure, which are changes in the way the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives manages and functions. This is basically a fundamental change in the ministry that has already been applied to the Law on crafts whose changes have been made only in the direction of establishing the control of the Ministry in the management of the Chamber of crafts, as well as the recent amendments to this law. Thus, in the largest number of articles, the responsibility of the ministry is changed in place of the economy and entrepreneurship is replaced by the words of entrepreneurship and crafts. This should in itself probably mean that this change clearly implies that these are the real changes that will ensure greater opportunities for cooperatives, so instead of economies and entrepreneurship now entrepreneurship and crafts. I guess that's enough. Article 5 introduces Article 50a which states that the Croatian Union of Cooperatives has public authority and that it keeps records of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other members. However, this was the Croatian Union of Cooperatives until now, and what does public authority mean in keeping the records? But the fundamental change in the reasons for this law is found in articles dealing with the Croatian Union of Associations. Therefore, the way the Croatian Union is managed by the Association is being introduced by the Assembly, the Supervisory Board, the Governing Board is being introduced, so far they have been the congregations of the Supervisory Board and the President. In Article 9, a new article is added which brings about major changes in the way the Croatian Union of Associations manages. Representatives of cooperatives are elected to the Assembly and the law says who can be a representative of cooperatives. But the fundamental question here is a provision on who conducts the elections. So the elections for the representative assembly are held by a commission to conduct the five-member elections, which is appointed by the ministry. What motives and reasons lead the ministry to determine a fully private business association how they will choose their own bodies of governance? This isn't a state agency or some body of public administration. Except why you and your ministry. According to a review of cooperatives and what cooperatives and cooperatives are dealing with, we see in agriculture and forestry there are 444 cooperatives, fishing 39, processing industry 186, construction industry 78, trade 107, tourism and catering 60, service 162 and I don't understand what if you are already doing it so deep into the way you operate, selecting bodies and selecting bodies of a purely private business association, then at least of all ministries this ministry has reason to be. So 90% of the cooperatives are not in this ministry's portfolio at all. It turns out that in the lack of content and purpose of your ministry, you are engaged in entrepreneurship. This intention of yours is seen in Article 13 where you are looking for the Croatian Union to commit itself to delivering some undefined reports when and how this occurs to someone from the ministry and, in addition, to the Ministry, of course, the annual report and the weeks of the entrepreneurship association. Nowhere, no annual report has ever been submitted to any body of public administration. Here I would like to highlight some fundamental values that make sense of cooperativeship, but before that a few words about the state of co-operation itself. In half of 2013, 1,131 cooperatives with 2,682 employees and 19,309 cooperatives were registered in Croatia. On 31 December 2011, 2,060 cooperatives were registered, with 28,866 cooperatives and 4.246 employees. So in a year and a half, the work of 931 cooperatives stopped. Only cooperatives lost 1644 jobs and 10 thousand cooperatives stopped being, probably never stopped working but stopped being a cooperative. How can it be claimed at all then that here with such a sad trend, a dramatic and tragic trend and this economic activity can be any more significant factor in Croatia's economic recovery, such a trend for the next year and a half because the number of cooperatives has been halved, the cooperatives will disappear. Unfortunately, these figures only further confirm how successful the government's economic policy is and what a sink the Croatian economy is pushed into at all levels and large and small and medium-sized and craftsmanship and cooperatives and agriculture and industry and construction, so all that should be the backbone of Croatia's economic recovery. Unfortunately, we see the consequences daily, and the number of 320 thousand unemployed in the 9th month is not yet today, but this trend of daily job loss will definitely reach this tragic figure by the end of the 9th month. For the first time in Croatian history, I would say that practically in the middle of the season the tourist figure reaches such a dramatic figure of the unemployed. Clearly, therefore, it shows who pays the highest price for the full incompetence and loss of this government in each segment from economic, external to worldly and such an economic disaster could be expected because from the very beginning of the work of this government, the completely wrong, irrational and pro-recession law has been passed. Legal uncertainty is increasing, hard-earned international trust is being lost, which is likely to have become clear to all but of course to some in the government. Tax violence is being carried out and the government is entering into conflicts with everyone, from workers, entrepreneurs, the professional public to unfortunately the most tragic conflict with the European Union, and laws are being passed that should only leave the impression that this ministry is doing something or, as the Ministry does otherwise, is inadmissiblely involved in the freedom of entrepreneurship and freedom of entrepreneurship associations. So let me remind you once again what a cooperative is. The cooperative is a voluntary open, independent and independent society managed by its members, not the Ministry, and the basic principles are voluntary and open membership, independent management of members, autonomy and independence. And what to say then when it is written in law that the Ministry has the right to annul or abolish the decisions of the Croatian Federation of Cooperatives or make a direct decision from the authority of the Croatian Federation of Cooperatives. It can therefore be concluded that you are making court decisions. Did you then assume the jurisdiction of the administrative court at the end of the day? This has never been seen anywhere before. I wonder if you are already able to write something like this so that it is possible that the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it still exists, may miss such clearly illegal and unconstitutional provisions of the law. All that we see, so this law does nothing to contribute to the more successful functioning of cooperative society but serves exclusively the position that this Ministry invents and the purpose of its existence. And with the best of will, we are unable to support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48392	Thank you. We're on our way to replication. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48393	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Popiac, you have well noticed that, above all, the Minister wants to put his paw on another association of citizens who want to do something with their capital and that is the main provision of this law because all of this is irrelevant. Because if, I repeat, the minister doesn't provide funds to help these cooperatives, which is his function, and not the function of commanding them to organize yourself in one way or another, or simply because of that when you set up a similar one, then you can also handle certain things with him. But I repeat, after the association of craftsmen who have the same 150 years of tradition, the association of cooperatives 140, but not those cooperatives that emptyed the attics of Croatian peasants after the Second World War but other cooperatives that have a 140-year tradition, the minister would now like to say no, you gentlemen have no idea, you invested your money, you invested your brains, you invested your knowledge, you joined together to place it together on the market but you are stupid, you are not able to bring acts, you do not know how your cooperative will function, but I will tell you how your cooperative will function. And I'll just tell you one example... of an association with me in Great Gorica. With the help of the government and the county and the city, the Bogar Association has created a distribution centre, however, the cold-free distribution centre does not make any sense. For 2.5 years now from the Ministry of Agriculture and Lippa for this reason, apples and fruits of Croatian producers have fallen, and in the 2nd month when the price of these apples is high then we will eat apples that are 50, 60% more unquality from some other countries. Why, because we didn't give several million kunas to those associates who definitely have a future. And we can look back on the other side like that. There are sins that we understand and the HDZ government, and I'm not going to say that we did great, so now this is not good, but it's wrong to learn. It's the worst when you pay for the same mistakes several times.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48394	Thank you. Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48395	Yes, well, here you have, dear colleague, of course, also seen the very sense of passing this law which misses the objectives that are mentioned in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that need to be resolved, so these changes will indeed do nothing to contribute to the achievement of these objectives, which are of course unquestionable. And now that this is repeated, here are a few examples back here, it is not clear which, I repeat the motives and reasons of the minister himself, probably who gives orders to his professional services to write this kind of thing in laws and propose, except for the great desire to become... everything and everything where it really doesn't belong, and essentially does not do its job at all and doesn't justify the purpose of this ministry either, but he is in fact just one of these sad and unfortunate parts of this government, which, otherwise, shows more and more in any segment his own loss and incompetence. So, one totally amateur and incompetent group, and I believe, of course, that all of this is coming to an end very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48396	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48397	Your Honor, Mr. Drinker, in your debate, you pointed to the most important problems of this law. They know Maras and Milanovic, they know everything and they know best. I expect the government to make a decision, most in the Parliament, that one of the departments will probably make lists for all parties. They will determine how parties will be organised and what parties will do. After the craftsmen got involved in the elections now with a coalition full of freedom, entrepreneurship, free market, the sun came up when they showed up. There's no more corruption because they'll manage everything. Be careful, the ministry will annul the decisions of the association that organised itself and who, by its will, joins and then the ministry will say no, you have made the wrong decision, you will not. You'll do as we say. This is nakaradic. This government is really pushing us into a bird reserve. We become from day to day a bird's reservation and it's not what they do and they don't hear and they don't look and they smile. And our prime minister defies everything and everyone, and it's too scary and here, calmly raises their hands, obediently and in the halls is gossiping about his own prime minister and saying what he dares not, and this is really a great sadness for Croatian democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48398	The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48399	I am pleased, therefore, that you agree in this assessment which is the meaning of this bill and, of course, I agree with everything you have said that this is both the way of working and the functioning of this government. I heard recently that the minister was also very boastful, Minister Maras, I'm sorry he wasn't here. I'm very happy to see him here, because we have an opportunity to exchange clearly what we disagree with and what he keeps pushing. In fact, I heard on some show that he boasted about what he did to the Chamber of Commerce and that he announced in the coming time similar actions against all economic associations in Croatia. So, although we often disagree in some of our views on entrepreneurship, the economy, but I'm definitely glad that you also realize that the whole meaning of this ministry and this government is that, really, as you said, we're all well convinced that we're all, I don't know what you said, but this reservation, the bird, although it's probably an insult. But I think that I'm going to do all of this again, counting the days, and we're going to get our chances back, of course, to fix everything to fix it, and we're going to be able to correct the pro-recession anti-enterprise laws like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48400	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48401	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's a fellow drinker speaking of the law you may have missed out on positive examples of the stimulation of cooperatives as it was done in the defense population. Namely, 430 defence cooperatives supported by 150000 kuna gather 2500 advocates who earn income and 2700 co-operatives who are linked to them. The strict support measures of cooperatives in the defence population have contributed to the fruit because over 500 cooperatives in office are, for the sake of, creating, realising income and 430 have been realised, supported by the Ministry of Defence of 150 000 kunas who have met all the legal requirements. Such cooperation support measures would certainly be welcomed by both you and me and any one who wants Croatian cooperatives to be competitive, to have incentives to start work, and then for further development and gathering and people, and also for cooperatives who will find their jobs through cooperatives, to achieve their bread and their income. I believe that this bright example should have been considered, and even put it as an example in this Law on Co-operation and such stimulating measures to be used to move cooperatives forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48402	Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48403	Thank you, dear colleague, for contributing and mentioning that part of a healthy cooperative that was, of course, potent and supportive during our governments. However, I wanted to say the point and essence of giving an emphasis on the senselessness of passing such a law and what it does. But I want to remind you once again, unfortunately, and ask you how many of these cooperatives have survived. Because I've been repeating since 31.12.2011, 1,000 cooperatives have disappeared. It means that in this process and for that year and a half it has been done to make and what has been done so far in the launch of cooperatives especially in this most vulnerable and sensitive part of the Croatian part of this entrepreneurial activity. The remaining 887 cooperatives, agriculture and forestry are still running for a quarter this year. In this section where it was most talked about probably where defense cooperatives are involved, let's say in services probably from 285 is now still active around 160. So, one dramatic and tragic trend, and unfortunately, I'm afraid if this continues for the next year and a half, we won't have any more cooperatives in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48404	On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48405	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The new Cooperatives Act was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2001, but here we have today on the table its changes and additions and all for reasons and the fact that in the year of Croatia's entry into the EU it is necessary to coordinate and improve existing solutions that create preconditions and frameworks for further development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. Cooperatives are important for the economic development of particularly underdeveloped areas because the use of local resources can be directed into a sustainable economy through cooperatives, as they gather individuals and groups that have common interests and direct them into business and through a system that reduces the grey economy and promotes self-employment and employment. As the EU promotes the development of cooperatives in all sectors, and the international cooperative principles on which Europe's cooperatives rests, it is necessary to adapt to European standards and to achieve the same rules of organisation and consistent implementation of cooperative principles and values. If we analyse the situation of cooperatives before the entry into force of the Cooperatives and Status Act on 31.12.2012, when most of the co-ordination procedures have been completed, it is seen that the number of cooperatives registered in the register has been reduced almost half while the number of cooperatives has decreased by 35% and the employees by 36%. The total cooperative income decreased by 13%, the average number of cooperatives in the cooperatives before the coordination was 14%, and now it is 17%. However, here I would say that these are all indicators that most cooperatives, precisely those inactive and fictitious cooperatives, have failed to comply with the Cooperatives Act and that this is not any dramatic trend but has simply become a large number of non-working cooperatives, which have not existed at all, but were just a dead letter on paper. Looking at indicators of the state of the cooperatives by the activities they are dealing with, it is evident that the highest representation of agricultural cooperatives is 40%, which is not surprising given the tradition of co-operation in Croatia for more than 150 years and the fact that cooperatives that were founded in the early and mid-20th century and which survived to this day were mostly agricultural with more cooperatives than average in the Republic of Croatia. Part of these cooperatives are classified in the processing industry category as they deal with the processing of agricultural products and their finalisation. All cooperatives are required to present the Annual Financial Report to the FINA and to be delivered to the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives. According to available data, the state of business of cooperatives is visible, so a slight drop in agricultural production, a fall in construction, as well as trade as a reflection of the current situation in the economy can be observed. Mild growth in the processing industry suggests that cooperatives that have directed all activities towards the processing and finalisation of products are easier to overcome the crisis and that these can be guidelines for which we must refer to the work of existing cooperatives. The growing market requirements make demands for the final quality and indigenous products that many cooperatives already have, the production of high quality wines, olive oils, all of which is with a recognizable mark on the market. According to available data, 58% of cooperatives do not have any employees. The law allows it but the question arises how many cooperatives can actually successfully conduct their business if there are no professionals employed? We must bear in mind that the aim of a successful cooperative is to have as many associated producers as possible to place their products and services through the cooperative, but it is necessary to have the person who will professionally take care of the legitimate business of the cooperative, coordinate production, sales, collection and all other activities necessary for the successful business of the legal person. According to the trends shown, the cooperative system should be developed towards promoting active cooperatives with a constant increase in the number of cooperatives and employees and by working on the ground, education and stimulating measures need to increase the business activities of existing cooperatives. So our goal must be to increase the number of cooperatives, increase the number of employees in existing cooperatives, but of course also their incomes. Amendments and additions to this law allow the activity of persons of different legal status to be performed as members of the cooperative, for example, by persons of different legal status. pensioners and craftsmen without a working relationship. A specialised cooperative alliance is also introduced, extending the principle of applying the single cooperative system to other forms of organisation and work of members of the Croatian Association. This law will ensure the regular functioning of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives as a roof institution of the cooperative. The public powers of the alliance are laid down and it is determined that the certificates, beliefs and other documents that the Croatian Union of Cooperatives will issue under public authority will have the properties of public documents. The bodies of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives are being established closer and a new governing committee is being introduced, and the present assembly becomes representative and through transitional and final provisions is being established by the first representative assembly. This law in some way strengthens the function of the Croatian Association of Cooperatives, which is extremely important in view of the tasks and tasks it performs. I'll list here and read just a few. The Croatian Association of Cooperatives therefore promotes cooperatives and cooperatives and protects the interests of cooperatives, cooperatives and other members, encourages, coordinates, assists and advises in the application of cooperative principles and values provides professional assistance to cooperatives, organises and conducts professional training and counselling, organises and conducts activities in the field of cooperative management education, keeps company records, keeps records of products and services of cooperatives, cooperates with the local community regarding the property of cooperatives, promotes cooperative products and services, promotes performances on cooperatives through fairs, etc. I don't want to count it all. Articles 12 to 15 shall lay down the surveillance and infringement procedure, not the criminal provisions as regulated by the existing law. It is defined that the supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the Ministry responsible for entrepreneurship and craft and the obligations of the Croatian Cooperative Union in the delivery of data and reports. A new infringement is also introduced in a way that, if the cooperative does not adhere to cooperative principles or values, it will pay a fine that aims to ensure and encourage the work of cooperatives in accordance with cooperative principles and values. So to conclude, the amendments and additions to the cooperative law want to create an institutional framework in which cooperatives will open a greater opportunity for the entrepreneurial way of doing business, so the SDP club will support the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48406	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. Here you go, buddy Grubisic. My colleague Cain's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48407	Honored Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. In principle, we support the amendments to the Act on the functioning of cooperatives in Croatia but not to be touched by the autonomy of organisation and freedom of management of cooperatives. It does not have to be everything with the seal of a state institution, it should be left to the free organisation of citizens and the responsible behaviour of those who lead it. Says an old Latin proverb "qui bene distinquit bene docet", "Who knows how to distinguish certain contents well and learn the same." I would say here that in principle we support the adoption of this Act on the functioning of cooperatives in Croatia but not without some remarks that I think they have in the presentation of Mr. Popioč and Shuker have the basis not to touch human freedoms because without civil freedom there is no democracy, there will be no secession of what I said yesterday, which is Croatia to get out of this situation where it is. Therefore, I would say that cooperatives work, that free people organise themselves is necessary and to improve the economy, and I would say that for the creation of new jobs, but that the last word must not have institutions and have the last word, they must not have the last word in organising the citizens of the state institution. They are to protect freedoms and associations, not sanction them and prescribe them. There's so much in principle, Mr. Caine doesn't have, so I can't speak for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48408	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Party of the work of counterpart Nenad Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48409	Dear Croatian Vice-Presidents, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We all read the book, watched the movie "Train in the Snow" and we all know the song "When Little Hands Agree", it was one group of elementary school kids who went on their trip, so we know how she ended up or how they got along later. It is good that the EU has accelerated us to pass a whole series of laws that will be good for our country. It's bad we haven't done it ourselves before. It can no longer function on principle today, take it, share it tomorrow. We don't even need to tell people stories, but we have to face them with the truth no matter how heavy and cruel she is. So if the EU's advantage is not seen then the advantage is what I'm talking about right now. The EU has accelerated us throughout the regulatory process by a bunch of areas. Now, on the other hand, the question is what did we ourselves do to make the internal common European market stronger and more competitive? I'd dare say a little or not enough. And the cooperative has a long form of organization in Croatia, more than 140 years of tradition. Cooperatives have been a significant economic factor for their local but also for their wider community and for certain political movements during this period of 140 years. Of course, cooperatives are not just the specificity of the Republic of Croatia, that it also has its own tradition in the EU, that more than 300 thousand cooperatives that provide as many as 4.8 million jobs, which only contributes to such a form of association being one of the good forms of self-employment. There are many prejudices about cooperatives that are unwarranted because cooperatives are a positive economic and economic model. To overcome these prejudices, education and promotion must be done. Cooperatives want to equalise themselves with other operators on the market. In order to cooperate with European cooperatives, we need, of course, the same rules of organisation, implementation of cooperative values, the principles of which had a significant impact on the development of cooperatives and made it an essential factor for the economy in other European countries. That's why this law is right in front of us. With the accession into the European Union, the law has come into force, but on the other hand, the question is what has Croatia done to strengthen co-operation internally. Croatia has great wines, great food, in food production we are the best in the region, much better than all our neighbours, and you have the case that we can't make money, that we import food, that we eat potatoes from Egypt instead of from Gorski kotar or like, that we eat garlic from China and that in the tourist offer our quality products we don't know how to sell well enough, and tourism is the way the highest added value is achieved. The aid to farmers in the European Union is almost exclusively carried out through producer organisations. It is therefore necessary for Croatian farmers to understand that only the association will be competitive and will be able to withdraw substantial amounts of money from the EU funds. Today, of course cooperatives also apply some more modern forms, they try to be in a trend with the challenges of today's day. In addition to association with cooperatives for food production, when we talk about agriculture, more and more of those cooperatives that recognise renewable energy sources as the subject of their activities are engaged in the production of biogas, biomass, biofuels, etc. The Croatian economy, especially agriculture, is characterized by the fact that it is depleted, fragmented, which is small and expensive. Production that represents real weights on the feet of the Croatian economy as a whole. Individual action by a small farmer, craftsman or fisherman is often... an economic operator to be able to participate equally and successfully in the market. In addition, they cannot, along with regular work that they do successfully and favourably obtain re-promaterials, process and sell products, conduct bookkeeping and carry out other accompanying tasks. As a result, several of them are associated with cooperatives so that not each individual must pay bookkeeping services, but the cooperative keeps books for all, instead of individually obtaining repromaterial to a small cooperative supply for all to a large and much more favourable extent, instead of investing each cooperative himself in expensive machines and tools will invest in joint which will be the property of the cooperative, and in the service of all cooperatives as necessary. On the other hand, the individual entrepreneur has small production capacities and is not interesting to the large market partners, and when more cooperatives are presented through cooperatives, it becomes more respectable and respectable business entities. The more cooperatives it is a more quality product, the more it is in the interest of each association to be open to the reception of new members. The cooperative is a cooperative logistics support to relieve him and free him of valuable time to do what he knows best. The rules of the cooperative are detailed in determining the relationship between cooperatives and cooperatives, and each cooperative in the cooperative assembly has equal voting and decision-making rights. Cooperative is a good means of fighting the gray economy. A person who is a cooperative through a cooperative is legally selling his products or providing services without being employed by the cooperative. This opens up the possibility that people with low incomes, e.g. pensioners or students do not work in the joint but to legally achieve an additional source of income through cooperative, not losing their bankruptcy rights. So what's crucial about cooperatives is that profit is not the primary thing. The primary thing is to satisfy some of the benefits of the cooperatives themselves which must not primarily be financial but also exist in other forms as social and social, etc. Although cooperatives and companies are legal entities registered in a commercial court, it is a big difference that only the owners of those capital companies decide. The profit is maximised at the level of the company and belongs to the majority capital owner, as well as the right to make business decisions. On the contrary, cooperative is the society of a person who is governed in a democratic and direct manner by all its members. They participate equally in the cooperative business, decide on all important business issues, distribution of profits, and that is how it should be, and that is how it should remain, and not that the Ministry makes decisions on their behalf and cannot agree with that. In accordance with the cooperative rules, part of the gain is retained and invested in the cooperative, but it does not exist for its benefit but exists to service the needs of its members. Its main goal is to make as much use of its members as possible. The space for the work of the cooperative sector in Croatia is large on the basis of comparisons with European indicators. The Republic of Croatia is significantly lagging behind the indicator of the share of cooperative members in the total number of inhabitants, as well as the indicator of the share of employees in the cooperative sector in the total population activities, which for the Republic of Croatia is moving at about 0.2% in 2009. For example, in Italy, the same share is 5%, in France above 3%, and in the largest number of EU member states, the indicator ranges between 2-3%. Today we have heard that we have fewer cooperatives and fewer cooperatives and fewer employees in these cooperatives. If an indicator of 0.2% for Croatia's premises were to rise to 2%, the cooperative sector should have more than 30,000 employees, which is about 10 times more than today and over 10% because we heard that there were around 2700 employees somewhere. These figures illustrate the potential for the growth of this negligible sector in Croatia and show its socioeconomic position. Will this law enable and improve existing solutions and create conditions for further development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. Here I would return to the beginning of my exposure and to the Train in the snow. I hope that there will be enough intelligence and knowledge to raise any important questions or bring solutions to our wrong Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48410	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48411	Thank you, well-respected vice president, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, we have before us the amendments to the Law on Co-operation but the HDSSB Club watching statistics, watching what happens in the last two years in the Co-operation in the Republic of Croatia and looking at the changes that are before us cannot say that it is satisfied and we will be against these amendments to the Co-operation Act. For what reason? Looking at statistics in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 we had 29892 cooperatives. Today we have 17504 which is down to 12388 cooperatives. We had 2011. 4250 cooperative employees, today 2606 or 1644 are fewer. With a clear view of those changes to the laws that took place in 2011 have also had a negative impact on cooperatives but have not received the result expected in relation to Croatia's entry into the EU. In 7 months we felt especially in agricultural production that during 7 months our producers, for example, could not sell their products because of the imports that came from northern Europe our tomatoes, our producers could not be placed on the market. Looking at what this Europe expects from us, it expects the cooperatives to join at the level of the distributor-trader. This is the possibility of withdrawing EU funds because it is just an important distribution channel for our manufacturer to reach the market itself. It's not defined by this law, but it defines exactly one stronger control. Controls are necessary. We have examples that certain cooperatives that have been newly formed in the Republic of Croatia have been funded by certain resolution ministries, and after that there has been no control. The control of the use of state resources is very important precisely for the purpose of the financing of the cooperatives themselves and also for the control of the use of funds. What counterpart Shuker said earlier was that it was defined that no funds were needed to achieve this law if there were no funds, it was also difficult to implement certain policies, and the cooperative policy was neglected in these two years. I am aware that Minister Maras has had some other wishes when it comes to requests to assist the Center of the Bank or some other institutions. But it's through cooperatives that real jobs can be realized, entrepreneurship can be developed, it can be developed by just a small businessman. There's a lot of focus lately on clusters, but in cooperative we see a chance because just looking at our environment, looking from the environment, i.e. The EU, looking at 300,000 cooperatives or 4.8 million cooperative employees in the EU, is then clearly seeing what the EU's message is. But looking at America resting on cooperatives, we can also read and do not have to invent hot water but simply look for solutions to their legislation. We must also look for opportunities at a time of crisis precisely for the realisation of jobs, and we can do so and motivate them through competitions just so our producers are rounding up with distributors and traders. As the stories were just before and about the refrigerators related to the production of, for example, apples, so come packing shops, sorters, refrigerators and normal distribution channels and distribution centers. We have a closed door here, and if that part is not stimulated, our production will remain in the fields, remain in some orchards or be sold at minimum prices. This is why direct support is needed, but also stronger control of the direct support that producers themselves must receive. Looking at what happened, and there is a tradition in Croatia and there was a savings-credit cooperative we are aware that this is exactly the way of association through savings-credit cooperatives no longer exists in the Republic of Croatia, and it has existed for decades. That's where I think one negative thing has been done right now to bring people together so they can get to capital. But we are also aware that one part of the savings-credit cooperatives has failed in the Republic of Croatia. Let's think of the resourceful and some where one of our fellow citizens was left without their resources that were not protected as when it comes to business banks. Therefore, it is precisely the adherence of the cooperative principles as well as the control of the dedicated funds but also the clear definition of the strategy in relation to the European financial framework 2014/20. I know well often in two mandates, and while I was mayor, I spoke to the cooperatives and I felt their problems especially in border activities such as agriculture in Slavonia and Baranja, and we were aware that the projects they are working and preparing in current and duty, as well as in the changes that have taken place in relation to the incentives that these farmers do not have enough power to realise that participation, in order to make EU funds available to them. Therefore, and through HBOR, providing opportunities for that part of participation through EU funds is also necessary to define new programmes in order for the cooperatives to want to join together, to create a good basis for the manufacturer, distributor and trader of the common unit to protect our domestic production, in order to essentially address the problem of our producers, and this law is unfortunately not the case. Therefore, in this law we do not see an interest in strengthening cooperativeship and stronger integration. Therefore, the HDSSB club will be against the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48412	Thank you. Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48413	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, through this sentence of yours about unsold tomatoes, you have defined in principle what is the function of cooperatives. The function of the cooperative is that these tomatoes don't stay unsold. And that's the point. It is not a cooperative function for the minister to rule out what these cooperatives will look like. The function of the cooperative is that the product produced in Croatia regardless of whether in agriculture, whether it is some kind of craft activity comes into the market and that Croatian citizens can buy at low prices. And since you mentioned tomatoes, this year you could buy 3 kuna tomatoes in the Neretva Valley while at the same time on our Adriatic coast at 15 kuna. Here, colleague Tyrelli can confirm that. Who made those 12 kunas? That there is a cooperative, that there are these distribution centers, and we're also going to go to any shelf of any trade chain and we're going to see the tomatoes of that sauce and the ones that have how much of it you have produced in Croatia, which is the country of origin. And how many Croats had to throw or just like that watermelon broke the other day because he couldn't get into the big market. So if you're proposing a law like this, if you don't propose measures to provide financial resources, unfortunately, he's a dead letter on paper. I repeat, it's not just a mistake these two years, it's a little longer. But also let's not be crazy about paying the same mistakes a few times. And therefore the meaning of this law is not good, it is not going to help those who would do something in Croatia, not this way and form of work, but only to give the minister the power to make a decision on the rules. But I repeat, we're going to Germany, which is, by all means, our role model, see there that practically agricultural producers are right through cooperatives being organised and that's how they perform on the market. And perhaps Croatian citizens and those unemployed and those with low wages would buy tomatoes at 5 or 6 kuna per salary, not 15, 16 and 18 if we had organized the buy-out through cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48414	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48415	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a colleague he mentioned again means that no funds are provided and no funds are secured. The origin of goods is not seen in Croatia, and just when we talk about the origin of the goods, tomatoes could not be sold at 2.5 kuna. So the good part of the tomato has remained in our fields, in our plastics in Slavonia and Baranja, as well as throughout Croatia. Therefore, without the insurance of funds not only in the restoring ministry but also in other ministries of direct support to our producers, but also rounding up what I said to the distributor-trader producer, we will find it difficult to place our producers on the market with adequate support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48416	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is my colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48417	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I will support this final bill, although I have some objections to this law. First of all, I really don't see why this law is in emergency procedures. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister said that they would give up the debate in emergency proceedings except when it comes to harmonisation with European legislation, and here this is not the case, and I think it would be much better and better quality to discuss this law in two readings because ultimately, certain weaknesses of this law would probably be improved in a better way. The other thing that bothers me in this law is what you have and agreed to deal with the amendment or the Committee on the Economy, or through the Government's amendment and what was the HGK's remark, and it is therefore a basis for the establishment of cooperative activities through personal work without the establishment of a working relationship, given the fact that the second ministry, the Ministry of Mrsic, has not, in the meantime, passed a law, or proposed a law to be adopted by this Assembly to regulate this issue. I think it's good to get out of the law and out of this provision. My point is not so much related to the content of the law itself, but to what we really want to achieve in the part of the cooperative. I think that cooperatives have a very big developmental chance and that at the level of the state should really encourage cooperatives especially in the agricultural sector. And here I would like to mention one piece of information, regardless of the fact that in Croatia we push a lot of rounding of agricultural areas is the fact that developed countries have been more prone to actually these small agricultural projects and these small agricultural projects are being brought together and in some ways they are building a meaningful policy right through cooperation, and I think that Croatia has a very big opportunity, especially in the field of organic agriculture, or sustainable agriculture. In fact, the fact is that small farms are not worth investing in large machines and the like, and that this was previously solved through cooperative models. And I think that even today, when organic agriculture requires investment in infrastructure in terms of the purchase of machines that don't use fossil fuels, if we want to have certificates and so on, that through cooperatives, cooperatives would create certain means where a number of organic farmers or other farmers who want to deal with forms of agriculture that bring additional value can currently acquire machinery or other important ones by saying jobs work through a cooperative. And not only through it, but also through product placement towards the hotel industry, according to other branches through cooperatives. Why am I talking about agriculture? The fact is that we have a very big opportunity in agriculture because 50% of all the food that we eat in Croatia comes from imports, which means that we subsidize other economies through it, and in a situation where we cry for GDP growth it would be very wise to achieve GDP growth through these projects through the internal projects of raising the economy in agriculture. And that is why I think it is crucial that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft make a strategy for the development of cooperative society that would say at the state level what we want from cooperatives and how we can use cooperatives in the growth of the Croatian economy in the growth of entrepreneurship and thus exploit the potentials that are very large in this part. So I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will accept this initiative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that it will go towards a strategy for the development of cooperatives where we will finally respond in what way cooperatives can be used by raising the economy in the Republic of Croatia and using these potentials that lie in this small individual sector to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48418	Thank you very much. Col. Domagoj Hajdukovic is not there to lose the right to debate on this point and next in line, counterpart Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48419	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. 150 years of cooperatives isn't meaningless. The Cooperative Act has regulated cooperatives as the form of legal entities represented in all activities. The great importance of cooperatives has come from the development of islands and Dalmatia. Analysis of the development of agricultural cooperatives in Croatia since the establishment of the first agricultural cooperative in Croatia and this was on Korcula in 1864. Then it also developed as a register of mutual beliefs. In addition to her savings roles, there was an expression of help in obtaining repromaries and other things, yet it was 150 years ago. Farmers and craftsmen felt a great need for favourable loans so that they could obtain raw materials and repromated as cheaply as possible and as high-quality as possible. How could they come to the market by then as much about higher production and better quality resources... Since 1864, the establishment of agricultural cooperatives has been justified in membership itself. If we remember that the beginning of the first cooperative that had then 90 members, already at the end of 1894, was 700. We know that in 1909 she had 1,620 members, and not only in Korčula but also in Lastovo, Peljesac and part of Neretva then joined. At the same rate, the capital of that cooperative grew so that it was not only membership and assistance in this, but also the capital of that cooperative where the development of cooperatives and aid in the very resources of rural agriculture took place. The effective action of this cooperative enabled the cooperative movement to expand and participate in the development of Dalmatia at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, as well as Croatia. Based on the historical rich building, we can look at the social and economic opportunities in Croatian villages in certain historical times, but the importance of the relationship or role of cooperatives in the development of agriculture and villages is a significant development of agriculture and development of the city, because we know that the villages of cooperatives were the backbones of development in all areas. So today we have in certain local communities or municipalities that everything revolves around these cooperatives. There has been a collapse of cooperatives for about five years, so some of them are almost before bankruptcy, and I think this law is a prerogative led by the Ministry of Finance came in good help to those cooperatives that have been transformed into companies and have been more easily privatised later. But that's all on that level that the environment wanted, and that's what it asked for. The cooperative alliances of the regions and the national alliance should have been more involved in the work of these cooperatives and I think we should be at the aid, so I think the new law also proposes higher work and involvement of both regional and national cooperative alliances and that this administrative council will now form it and will have a greater impact on the resolution and monitoring of the work of these cooperatives. If we remember that, cooperatives are subject to the development of certain environments. Today, there is a difficult situation in a part of the cooperative that has not paid products to its members for 5 years. I'm talking about agricultural cooperatives now, so wine and grape production. We have on Korčula, on Pelješac a mass of cooperatives that have bought grapes for 5 years, they haven't paid people, but it has come to this that wineries are full of wine and that grapes can't be bought. So now the buyers are coming and that's what cooperatives, regional alliances and national alliances will have to help solve these things. We have yet another great advantage in the development of cooperative society. Let's remember how expensive machines are. Here's my colleague Mirella just spoke, and I can say in my midst, and I think completely Korculi can say there are no expensive tractors. Cooperatives have their tractors, provide services to their members and cooperatives so that the savings are quite large and I think that, in that sense, joining cooperatives is quite favourable and for the development itself, there would be no development of tourism or other resources on the islands and coastal areas if there were no such cooperatives. And I expect that with this law, the regional alliance and the cooperative alliance will have more involvement in the problem of cooperativeism and will help us develop itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48420	Thank you. Next in the debate, Simo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48421	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. When a Slavonic peasant is called a cooperative, it's something foreign to him, and it shouldn't really be. We are talking about the consequences of today's Croatian peasants, Croatian farmers, and this mainly applies to Slavonia and Baranja. We should encourage it in a way to join together, to pool the funds, to combine the equipment, and that not every farmer must have everything from machines, tractor, combined, all modern connections, plates, toothpicks, plowers, submersibles, tail drills, corn pickers, sunflowers, etc. Five, six of them, or more so, to join today, would have these problems that they have personally and as an OPG would have been smaller because each of the assets would have been introduced into that cooperative and would, of course, come together, also when it comes to the availability of agricultural land mainly when it comes to concessions, the lease of agricultural land and before it was the purchase of land and the multi-year lease of agricultural land. Of course, if we could also perform together on the market and very important in the peaks, what we called co-operation with the village once, that these and such cooperatives joined, the joint farmers bought this buying-out place with the storage space, with the runways, with scales, today would not have to pay large funds for the transport of these grains to silos where sometimes remote silos from the place, the fields where they were produced. Of course, when it comes to storage that they can store their goods and then get on the stock exchanges from the Ministry of Quotas that when it is a favourable price to sell the product, regardless of the wheat, barley, brewery, sunflower, etc. Of course, we could also perform together on the market, and I think that today at this very difficult time, we all know very well, when the price of wheat is, for example, the price of wheat. Here's down 30%, when they didn't get 30% of the support, of course they went into loss. A large number of OPGs today by handing over wheat and calculating these same wheat have gone into loss, and I think they've been encouraged all this time and they've had pooled assets and equipment and machines, so that the processing of these surfaces is lower and of course something very important, and this is also in this agricultural production that in these cooperatives, those who are associated or would be associated are not yet too late to join together. Not everyone can know everything, someone will be in charge of seed production, someone will be in charge of protection, and, of course, from year to year, everything on the market when it comes to agricultural machines, new lamps, new protections that would be followed up by agricultural production and, of course, get more and earn money. I mean, I think I know the Croatian village and I am the child of the Croatian village and I worked in the area and I did something small and together with my friends, relatives and households, I think that when it comes to the Agricultural and Advisory Service, when it comes to the agency going on the ground, on the ground, and tell the gentlemen to join in cooperatives and say what is positive for them, and not that every farmer must have an individual machine for the processing of agricultural land. And today when they raised that agricultural land, they got back on capital investments, they got support for what they had sown but that return on capital investment got right away, and the loans went after grace periods, two or three, like where years. And I think these anutes were big, and production in quantities and expensive production cost them that today they can't service those credits that they took up. And if the joints could do that, I think we could do it and I don't think it's too late to join the O.P.G.s anymore into one cooperative, but if the ministry were to support it financially, I think it's supportive and advisory to hire services on the ground, agricultural and advisory services, and to tell them that if you team up, you'll save so much and so much each year. I don't think it's too late for that yet, but I'd like to ask and advise that they be given support not only in finance, but in support of knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48422	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And last in an individual debate, counterpart Boro Grubisic. He's not there, he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. And ultimately, the Deputy Minister doesn't want to. Do you want to? Here you go. Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48423	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, on behalf of the promoter, once again, I would like to thank you for your constructive and discussion of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act. And once again I call upon you to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48424	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met, and now my colleagues and colleagues are scheduled to take a break until 12:00, so I'm asking you to be in the hall at 12:00 because we're going to vote on the debated agenda points. Thank you very much. It's 11:00.22.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48425	Final proposal on amendments to the Cooperative Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 445. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Economic Committee. I'd like a representative of Drazen Pross, deputy minister of entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48426	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48427	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of 90 votes in favour and 20 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperatives in the text, as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48428	Let's go to the next one. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. I b) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and vice presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to appoint the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's rapporteurs want the working body of the Croatian Parliament? Yeah. Josip Djakic, chairman of the Committee. Here you go, Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48429	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on War Veterans discussed the proposal of candidates for the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and did not decide on their appointment since the board members were not in full composition. These decisions that were actually made were such that four members were for, 1 was against and 3 were abstentions. It was clearly stated in the debate that the applicants did not even provide the résumés as is appropriate when the members are elected, they are appointed to the Croatian Parliament for this Administrative Council. Therefore, the Committee on War Veterans is under a) Decision on the discharge of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre for the adoption of that decision, as I said, were four members, against the adoption of one and three were abstentions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament did not make a decision because it did not have the necessary majority. Same for the appointment of new members. So I suggest you take this point off the agenda, that the board reconsider, that the résumés be completed to know which persons they are, what their real characteristics are, and that we can once again take our stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48430	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There is, a respected representative, Drazen Djurovic, here you go. On behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48431	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and representatives on behalf of the HDSSB Club, and since I am also a member of the parent board, which Mr. Djakic has now just explained the proposal of new members of the board of directors of the newly appointed Documentation Centre is in itself very unclear. A representative of the proposer who participated in the work of the committee of directors, or the Committee on Veterans, said that the board of directors so far worked well, well quality and that there were no objections to their work, however, that there was a saturation of material and that there is now a need for some new people to be in the board of directors. We do not see what kind of saturation of material has taken place and why there is a change in the management council at all, especially because some very prominent members I say once again have no objections to have been changed from these places and other people are being appointed if these people have done good work so far and have not been able to behave properly and there have been no objections to their work and there have been references in the work both scientific and professional and personal. I don't see any reason why these shifts are taking place. Also, as Mr Djakic mentioned, some of the proposed candidates have some reference to life and work that we believe will not contribute to the work of the Memorial-documentation centre. And in the end, since the Veterans Committee has not actually made a decision or agreed to this amendment, it would also support as a club Mr Djakic's proposal that this agenda item be postponed and that it is debated again at the Veterans Committee session because we do not see any haste at all, therefore there is no urgency. That institution works normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48432	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Vice-President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48433	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and the HDZ Club joins what has been said so far. We propose that this item of the agenda be postponed. We heard from the representatives of the parent committee that there seemed to be a discussion about it on the parent board, and it seems to me that especially when it comes to this institution, more than ever, more than ever, than ever, more than any other subject, it is necessary to reach a consensus. It is not good, I think it would be completely wrong if the vote in the Croatian Parliament chose new members without it being clear why the old ones are changing, and obviously why they are not. I think that the quality of the work of the Croatian Parliament, because of the meaning that this administrative council has, and that institution would need to reach a preliminary agreement in order to choose all together by consensus those people we believe will best be able to protect what I am sure is sacred to all of us, and that is the tradition of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48434	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48435	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I didn't mean to speak just to say that the same Croatian Labourists support this proposal and we advocate to remove the point from the agenda. And I would just like to remind the respected MPs and MPs who are the function and role of the board. If the committees are the professional bodies of the Croatian Parliament and if the committee does not agree, if the committee fails to decide, I think it is quite logical that the committee should meet again and make a decision, and that after the board has taken a decision in full composition to then discuss at the plenary session and make a decision and do not need to, I agree with my colleague Reiner, this means revote in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48436	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a resolution in accordance with the current act in the Croatian Parliament. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 32 votes against a decision on the resolution of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 1 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48437	The following is the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Electronic Media Council. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on Electronic Media, you received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take part in the report? Yeah. Respected committee chairman Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48438	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed at its 24th session on 19 September 2013. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Council for Electronic Media submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 25 July 2013. The committee considered that proposal a decision as a parent working body. In the opening statement of its proposal, it pointed out that, following the resolution of the member of the Duška Zimunje Council of Electronic Media, the Government of the Republic of Croatia issued a public call at the meeting held on 25 May 2013, established a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Council for Electronic Media, proposing to appoint Robert Tomljenović as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The debate drew attention to the fact that it is evident from Robert Tomljević's résumé that he is in conflict of interest because he owns shares or co-owners of a production house. It has been answered that such persons may make a public call but must resolve a potential conflict of interest by the time they enter into office. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes of 9 for and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "It supports the decision to appoint a member of the Council for Electronic Media in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia".
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48439	Thank you very much. There are no requests with reports from other working bodies. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48440	There were 38 candidates in the competition. 20 candidates with biographies that are very respectable and 20 candidates who are not in conflict of interest, who are not the owners of production houses. Those who deal with the media well know what it means to be the owner of the production house and how networked these people are. We believe that only placing shares or ownership or a lawyer's office or leaving it to other co-owners is not a sufficient obstacle to conflict of interest. The law allows it. I'm talking about morality and I'm talking about Croatian practice. Remember only from the practice of what was going on and how certain ministers then favored their companies that had their property frozen. The competition did not require that candidates have to have a college, which is rare. The candidate elected by the government has no VSS. The other candidates have completed their colleges. What's he saying? That the contest was called for a certain person. It's the same for you when the state authorities are looking into car purchase tenders and everything is written just because it doesn't write a license plate yet. It is clear which model can be and probably which car dealer will get cars for a particular state body. The practice of the government of the Republic of Croatia continues according to the logic that reads, we took responsibility, we can do what we want. The Council for Electronic Media, i.e. the Agency for Electronic Media, is a very influential body, a very important body in the Republic of Croatia, deciding on one of the most attractive and influential businesses not only in Croatia but also in the world. It is the media that decide the strongest of both social events and political developments. When we last elected a member of the council and when we had you remember well when the Agency for Electronic Media announced that one television would turn off the signal for at least one day, then it gave up and after one member had filled out the Council for Electronic Media he was from that television. He used to work on that TV. So it's very important that the body I'm talking about be impartial, be independent and be operated by those people who are not closely connected to the business in the electronic media. This time I doubt that it can be because of the text of the competition, because the government has done it eventually because of those people who have responded to the competition, and they meet the very conditions. It has been said that if we were to comply with these criteria, no expert would ever be chosen from that profession. I'm saying that 20 people who don't have ownership, I'm talking about a ownership conflict of interest, so they're very eligible, and I think they're being discriminated this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48441	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Jasen Mesic. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. No one has been reported for this hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on appointment. By raising your hand, would you please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that most votes, 78 votes in favour and 8 votes in favour, have been adopted by the proposed decision appointing members of the Electronic Media Council, as proposed by the Proposer. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 8. Law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures. You received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Is there a representative who wants a proposal? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur want a committee? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate on the proposal. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Please state by raising your hand who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that most votes, 79 votes in favour and 8 abstentions, have been decided on the appointment of the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48444	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals at its 26th session of 19 September this year. The first decision is the Proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-President and the termination of the term of office of the Vice-President and the resolution of the members and the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. Frano Matušić is elected vice-president of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 1 July 2013, the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Davor Ivo Stier for his term of office. Three, member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament Frano Matušić is dismissed. For members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Goran Jandroković and Jasen Mesic are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48445	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 88 votes, the proposed decision has been made. Proceed to the Honorable Chairman of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48446	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Marija Lugarić is elected member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee stopped acting as Sandra Petrovic Jakovina because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48447	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 88 votes, the proposed decision has been made as proposed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48448	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Tanja Vrbat is elected as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Sandra Petrovic Jakovina for the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48449	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48450	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to resolve the selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Draženko Pandek is hereby authorised. Hrvoje Nekić is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48451	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48452	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Klarin, is hereby dismissed. For members of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee, Đraženko Pandeka and Dubravko Bilic are elected. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina for the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48453	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48454	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Daniel Mondekar is hereby authorised. Hrvoje Nekić is elected member of the Committee for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48455	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48456	Proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the selection of members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of the Croatian Parliament, Tanja Vrbat, is hereby authorised. A member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of the Croatian Parliament is elected Darko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48457	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48458	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Damir Rimac is hereby dismissed. A member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is elected Darko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48459	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Nine. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48460	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Damir Rimac. On 19 July 2013, a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as a member of the Croatian Parliament because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48461	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I note that, unanimously, 87 votes were voted in favour of the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Ten respected board presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48462	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Dubravko Bilic is elected as a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Mr Biljana Borzan for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48463	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 87 votes, a proposed decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Committee. Eleven respected board presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48464	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the president of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The chairman of the Committee for Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, Master Josip Salapic, is hereby dismissed. The President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48465	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 87 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. We're going to twelve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48466	Proposal for a Decision on the election of presidents and the termination of the term of office of president of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected by Dr. Davor Bozinović, on 18 September 2013, and the chair of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Bozidar Kalmeta for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48467	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 87 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Thirteen, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48468	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly Saša Djujic is hereby dismissed. For members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Darko Ledinski and Ada Damjanac are elected. On 19 July 2013, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48469	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 87 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Fourteen, the Honorable President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48470	Proposal for a Decision on the election of a president and the termination of the term of office of the chairman of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Krešimir Bubalo. On 11 September 2013, the president of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Zoran Vinkovic because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48471	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 87 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Fifteenth, Honorable Chairman of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48472	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Assembly of Luke Denon is hereby dismissed. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament is elected Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48473	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 87 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Congratulations to all selected and appointed working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. That's how we exhausted the votes on completed topics this week. Thank you for your work. I invite you on Tuesday to a new plenary session, a continuation of the plenary session, and I announce the 26th item of the established agenda of the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at 9.30 here in the hall. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 13.03 p.m. Let's go to choices, appointments and resolutions. President-in-Office of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Shime Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48475	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 27th session, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals: Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President and the termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. First, the Croatian Parliament's Vice-President is elected Dr. Goran Maric. Under two, on 6 June 2013, the office of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament has ceased to act as Anna Lovrin due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48476	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 105 votes, a proposed decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48477	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Under two, on 18 September 2013, a member of the Board on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Bozidar Kalmeta for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48478	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I estimate there are no interested. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Someone abstentioned? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 103 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Three.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48479	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, Milan Jurkovic is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee. Second, on 1 July 2013, a member of the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Mr. Andrej Plenkovic for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48480	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, a proposed decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Committee. Fourth call, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48481	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. First, Ante Sanader is elected as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. Second, on 19 June 2013, a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly ceases to act as Dinko Bošnjak due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48482	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, a proposed decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Committee. Fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48483	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. First, Tomislav Klaric is elected as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. Second, on 1 July 2013, a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Mr. Andrej Plenkovic for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48484	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, a proposed decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Committee. Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48485	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. First, for members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Klaric and Ante Sanader are elected. Second, on 19 June 2013, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Dinko Bošnjak due to the termination of his duties as a representative. Thirdly, on 18 September 2013, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Bozidar Kalmeta for a term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48486	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. The 7th Honored President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48487	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. First, Milan Jurkovic is elected member of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Second, on 19 June 2013, a member of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Dinko Bosnjak due to the termination of his duties as representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48488	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, the proposed decisions in the text have been adopted as proposed by the Committee. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48489	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, firstly, for a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Damir Jelic is elected. Second, on 19 June 2013, the responsibility of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament ceases to behave as Dinko Bošnjak due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48490	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the proposed decisions in the text as proposed by the Committee. The 9th Honorable President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48491	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and the termination of the mandate of a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. First, Frano Matušić is elected as a member of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Second, on 6 June 2013, a member of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy ceased to act as Anna Lovrin due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48492	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the proposed decisions in the text as proposed by the Committee. We're going to decision 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48493	Proposal for a decision on the election of members and the termination of the term of office of member of the Croatian Parliament at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. First, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is named Igor Dragovan. Second, on 1 July 2013, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly stopped acting as Sandra Petrovic Jakovina due to the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48494	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 101 votes for the proposed decisions in the text as proposed by the Committee. 11th President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48495	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a deputy member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. First, at the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean as deputy member, Zvonko Milas is named. Second, on 1st of July 2013, Deputy Member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly stopped acting as magistrate Andrej Plenkovic for holding the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48496	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 101 votes for the proposed decisions in the text as proposed by the Committee. The 12th Honored Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48497	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of members of the Croatian Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. First, Tanja Vrbat is elected to the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation for the member. Second, on 1st July 2013, a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation stopped acting as Tonino Picula in order to hold the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48498	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the proposed decisions in the text as proposed by the Committee. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48499	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member and the resolution and appointment of a deputy member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. First, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Tanja Vrbat, is hereby dismissed. Secondly, for a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Melita Mulic is named. Third, the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Melita Mulic, is being resolved. Fourthly, as deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48500	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, colleagues, thank you. I'm making a statement to the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Who's holding her back? I'm asking for a result. I confirm that it is unanimous with 98 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48501	Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a leader and the termination of the term of office of the Head and the resolution and appointment of a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. First. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly is named Luke Denon. Second. On 1 July 2013, the office of Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly ceased to act as Tonino Picula for the term of office. Third. The duties of members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly of Luke Denon are hereby resolved. Fourth. As a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, Ivan Klarin is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48502	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a plea. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, the proposed decision is in the text as proposed by the Committee. The 15th and last of me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48503	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament in the interparliamentary union. A member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament shall be dismissed in the interparliamentary union of Gordana Sobol. Second. Marija Lugarić is elected member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament of the Inerparliamentary Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48504	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a decision. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, the proposed decision is in the text as proposed by the Committee. That's how we exhausted the vote. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament will continue on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Transport. And so we'll see in a row. I'll see you Tuesday. Let's go to the choice and appointments and resolutions. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Honored Fellow Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48506	Thank you very much. The colleagues and colleagues of the Board of Elections, appointments and administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament adopted the motions for decisions, the next proposals for decisions at their meeting of 24 October. First decision, proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected by Dr. Davor Bozinović. Second, on 6 June 2013, the member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Anna Lovrin due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48507	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 91 votes in favour. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48508	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee, Šimo Djurdjevic, is relieved. Secondly, Davor Miličević is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48509	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 89 votes in favour. Dear colleague Lucine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48510	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Ivan Shantek is elected member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48511	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 90 votes in favour. Four, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48512	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Đuro Popijač is hereby relieved. Secondly, Goran Maric is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48513	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that with 91 votes for the proposed decision. Five, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48514	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee is elected Josip Djakic. Second, on 6 June 2013, the member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament’s office ceased to act as Anna Lovrin because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48515	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for the proposed decision. Six. Here's your esteemed colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48516	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Shantek, is hereby dismissed. Second, for the member of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Marija Rapo is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48517	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 92 votes for the proposed decision. Let's move on to seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48518	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Ante Babic is relieved. Secondly, an Ante Jerolimov is elected member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48519	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for the proposed decision. Let's move on to the 8th decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48520	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament, Đuro Popijac, is relieved. Secondly, Ante Jerolimov is elected member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48521	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for the proposed decision. It's the ninth decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48522	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament is elected Krešimir Bubalo. Second, on 11 September 2013, a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48523	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for the proposed decision. The 10th esteemed colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48524	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament Martin Banic are relieved. Second, Đuro Popijač is elected as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48525	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was reached unanimously with 91 votes in favour. The 11th esteemed colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48526	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Ante Babic, is relieved. Secondly, Martina Banić is elected as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48527	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please plead. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was reached unanimously with 91 votes in favour. 12th esteemed colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48528	Proposal for a decision to appoint a member and suspend the term of office of members of the Croatian Parliament at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. First, in the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly as a member, Dr. Martina Dalic. Second, on 1 July 2013, a member of the Assembly's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly stopped acting as Davor Ivo Stier for holding the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48529	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest, I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement to the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there a abstention? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was reached unanimously with the 91st vote in favour. 13th Honored fellow Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48530	Proposal for a decision to appoint a vice governor of the Croatian National Bank and to suspend the term of office of the Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank. First, for the vice governor of the Croatian National Bank, it is called Neven Barbaroša. Second, the term of office of the Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank of the Master Adolf Matejka ceased with the date of October 5, 2013 during the legal period on which he was appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48531	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one answered. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving it to... Yes, dear representative Furio Radin, here you are. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities has been without a vice president for months, so I'd like to ask him to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48533	I understand your need, but it has nothing to do with the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48534	But I know, but who knows if I'd have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u48535	Okay. Okay. We've closed the debate. I'd like to make a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of votes, 88 votes and 4 abstentions, as the Commission has also proposed. That's when we exhausted... There's more? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Selection, appointment and resolution. Please. We're done here. [[We're done here.]] Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request from the representative to give an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Honorable Representative Peju Grbin, to introduce us to the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u56328	At its 45th session, held on 20 September 2013, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system discussed the request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted by the Committee of Representative Davorin Mlakar and proposed the following opinion to the Croatian Parliament. "Article 236(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that a representative who is not satisfied with the explanation of the chair of the session may announce that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament will submit an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The phonogram of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament since 18 September 2013 shows that MP Davorin Mlakar has not announced that he will submit an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the president has given him an explanation. By such a failure, MP Davorin Mlakar lost the right to apply for the injury in question to the Rules of Procedure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-20-0.u56329	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. We decide on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system without debate. I'd like to make a statement with the vote. Who wants the board's opinion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 8 abstentions were adopted by the Committee on the Constitution as proposed by the Committee itself. Dear MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament according to the established itinerary, according to the established agenda. Now it is our turn - The Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Please the Prime Minister of Zoran Milanovic to take his word.
