ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. So we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. I will say a few words about why and how we have decided on this scale of change and what are the most important changes. So the existing Criminal Procedure Act that we are changing was adopted in 2008, it took full effect two years ago and this is the fifth change, so it's already changed four times. The reason for this amendment is primarily what prompted us to implement the Constitutional Court's decision which, after three years of reflection, stated that 43 provisions were not in line with the Constitution of this law and ordered correction within the year until December of this year. Right away, maybe the opening thing to say is that we're changing 250 provisions and, of course, it's being asked as a legitimate question why didn't we go through the new law? Because it's a large amount of procedure, but the answer is simple, we didn't have time to groom everything else precisely because of the deadline left by the Constitutional Court. Maybe one more thing, the public debate has been going on since July so far, we're going in two readings, so all the comments we've come to process, some of us haven't, but we've certainly given an explanation. Also the one thing that we will try to introduce as a good practice and in future parallel to the scope of the procedure we have also done the unofficially consolidated text of the law with all these amendments, we put it on our web already in July so that everyone can follow what really happens in the law. Because sometimes when you get a lot of changes to change then you don't know where we are or what we are anymore. So there is this unofficial text and it is clearly marked and all the changes that have been made. Also one thing that is different so far, the law is 2008 when it was passed no arguments per article, so a common justification for the whole law is given. With these changes, we have given an exact explanation for every provision that we change why and what is the purpose. So it can also be systematically monitored through the explanation of what is happening to the law. Four reasons for the change, one I have already said, is the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision, the other is what we have seen through practice and found that changes in the structure of the law are necessary, the third changes are related to certain international obligations, so in the acquis after the entry into force of this 2008 law and the fourth one trend we are trying to generally follow in all laws concerning the criminal sphere that come to you, and these are putting the victims in a central position. So far, the victim has always been treated primarily as a witness to an event means that someone tells us what happened and makes it possible to process, but the trend is that the victim is placed in one important different position to do everything in order to avoid secondary victimization, so we're also introducing a whole series of provisions as far as this is concerned. So when we add all this up when we add up and the fact that when you have to intervene in 43 provisions it is not possible to mechanically delete them because then the law does not actually exist anymore but you have to intervene, and because of the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision in much more provisions, this proposal is before you. I'm just going to go through the latest changes for these four wholes as I have indicated them. It means the first amendments related to the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision. First, very important, we introduce judicial protection against possible illegal prosecution and investigation, so against the actions that would be done here. In fact, we specify the moment when a person must be informed that he is at all exposed to criminal prosecution, so that is a solution to open an investigation or to press charges if no investigation is carried out, and from that moment on, a person may be called for judicial protection against possible illegalities. We are also introducing a whole series of deadlines already at this stage of the procedure in order to specify what happens when every body involved has its own obligations. Because simply the rules of the game, you'll see through the whole law we're setting a lot tighter than they are now. What's very important here is to point out that we've done all of this and you'll see later with other provisions and exceptions. So the exception refers to a clearly specified catalogue of the works, these are the most serious crimes of organised crime, terrorism, corruption, etc., where this, this beginning and this possibility of using judicial protection can be delayed justifiable, under justifiable reasons for 30 days. You'll see we're using that with other institutes. So where the most severe crimes are we, because of the efficiency of criminal persecution, we give that one extra delay. The next thing is the introduction of legal means against delaying proceedings. It primarily refers to criminal charges. We are all aware that in fact, too often happens with us that neither the applicant, so neither the injured nor the victim, nor the person against whom the criminal application has been filed is known for a very long period of time. And then we have people who have actually been on some criminal charges for years. We don't even know if they're being processed, whether they're being processed, whether they're being processed, whether they're being rejected, whether they're not, what's happening. Here are very precise deadlines when this has to happen and a procedure is in place that happens if these deadlines are not respected and the rights that each participant has in the process. So, both the damaged and the person against whom the criminal application was filed. We also arrange for the moment when the defendant acquires the right to gain insight into the case file. Moreover, not only is the obligation under the Constitutional Court decision but something which is further protected on the one hand is the right of the defendant and does not affect the effectiveness of the proceedings. In this case, as before, we foresee the possibility of delaying it because of the need for additional efficiency of the process. In certain procedural institutes which are significantly affected by human rights and freedoms, so in these special evidence actions we determine actually more detailed rules of the game. So, they remain as they are, but we prescribe deadlines, we prescribe a way of doing things more detailably than we have so far. One thing, I'm going to mention it because it's been mentioned quite often with us, these are the checking of the establishment of telecommunications contacts, you're coloquial and we're using the prints, meaning who he was talking to, not the content, but just the establishment. So we here to use this in criminal proceedings, unlike the current arrangement, are looking for a court order. We think it's an incursion into fundamental human rights and freedoms and that it has to be subject to control, judicial control, and that's how we put it. And there's a similar arrangement with some others, but you'll see that now. We've had a lot of discussion about the partial procedural immunity of witnesses or what we often call forgiveness. It was an institute that was attacked, whether we needed it or not. We find it extremely useful, it's important for the effectiveness of the investigation. But just as it was indicated in the Constitutional Court's decision, we feel it should be arranged in one way I will not say otherwise but simply that it should be better arranged. So, what we put here. So forgiveness as such absolutely remains, but we prescribe a catalogue of criminal acts where they can be used, we prescribe the quality of statements that must be given to even take into account the use. And we're introducing a ban, which is that the conviction is based solely on the testimony of such a witness. So forgiveness is fine, can be used under these rules but only on that cannot be based on judgment. It's later connected to another change I'm going to make, which you'll see. As for changes, then, from another segment that concerns improving or correcting existing legal solutions here, I would point out perhaps for the start of a property reconnaissance. So we talk a lot and talk a lot and we all know what's most important. The most important thing is if someone used the crime to take away the acquired. Without it, it all makes no sense together. The people who do this are willing to go to jail and risk it, but that's why it's our duty to try and take away what they've acquired. The current system works, but as we have seen from practice it does not work well enough. So we want to improve it with this. The most important change is the obligation of the state's attorney's office and therefore we give him tools through this Law and through others I'm going to tell you about later is that in the case of reconnaissance of criminal acts, so when there is a basis of doubt,... the reasonable doubt begins to follow these assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not just her value, it's her keeping track and what's going on with that property. The idea is that when a criminal trial starts later, we know where what is and that we can take it away. It's very simple. Now it happens to us that actually the moment we start dealing with such property she's already hidden. This is what we're trying to avoid. I immediately announce this through this, you will be faced with very soon amendments to the law on the State's Attorney's Office because we must intervene in this Act because of the amendment to this Act. But somewhere early next year, so when this comes into effect, we're going to go with the amendments to the law on taking away property benefit acquired by criminal acts because we want to make it even more effective. So the idea is and we throw it away, you'll see here and the additional funds, not financially but primarily through people and their training and the creation of special institutes that will deal with this, the enhanced takeover of property benefits. So it's one of the tools that passes this law, it'll be later worked out through others, but it's necessary because I say even though we've done a lot but we're not nearly satisfied with what happens to property acquired in criminal acts. We're not satisfied, it's not taken away enough. As far as one thing is concerned, it may seem, but I'm going to connect her to this. In mandatory defense, it means the right of counsel under official duty. We introduce the State's Attorney's office's obligation to control the property of such a person for 10 years because it often happens to us that actually convicted persons, so criminals used to use the millions of dollars the state paid for their defenses to get them out of jail later and enjoy the acquired property benefit. Now he can't. Ten years when it is discovered that this person has money will be charged. So the state was predominant at that point, but it's going to charge back. So that's also the change we're bringing here. Next. There's been a lot of talk, and so far we've had one provision in the law in the CAP means shooting, questioning the defendants, and it's been said that the defendant's first interrogation was recorded. Then in practice it actually happened to come, says he refuses to show up, it's recorded, and then later we have transcripts. We don't see any problem in that, but we see a duality problem, so we either have a record or we have a recording. We are now introducing an obligation to record all the defendants' statements, so they will all be recorded and the footage is evidence. So let's go because now we had a mixed system that was in practice causing a lot of problems and didn't follow the purpose of this recording. We're introducing a general appeal deadline, so 15 days is the appeal deadline, not so far the 8 and 15 difference. We're working things out about the cost of the procedure because so far it's been quite illogical with these defenses on official duty. What it may not seem, but it speaks of perhaps the structure of the 2008 law, division into a regular and shortened procedure. We had an absurd situation that we had a shortened procedure, so we actually called something 92 to 93% of all procedures, and only 6-7% were in the ordinary process. It's just how we agreed the law. So we didn't go from predicting that it's regular what the rule is so that we could get out of an emergency situation than we actually went the other way. What was the rule was for us a shortened procedure. Now we're shutting it down and we've got a unique procedure. There are exceptions as I said in the most serious crimes when some institutes can be applied with a delay, they can generally be applied etc. There was also one question in practice quite often, and it was related to the participation and defenders in the examination of co-defendants and witches means in the proceedings before a state attorney. So one note, not a note, but a concept. The law remains in its structure and is based on the state's attorney's investigation, so all these elements create a balance between the effectiveness of the proceedings and the rights of the defendants, but still the state's investigation. What does that mean? When questioned means witnesses, co-defendants or warlocks can choose an interrogation before the judge of the investigation and then it can be used as evidence or can interrogate itself without the defence attorneys present, but then we put one fence into the law. This is that only on such a statement is so on such evidence if it is not contradictoryly carried out, so if for any reason it could not be carried out in the main debate, there cannot be a thorough judgment. So, on the condition that it's all that's been done and that no contradictory examination has been allowed in the main debate. So what are we trying to say? The procedure is unique. If we have given the possibility of a non-discriminatory examination in this process before the main debate, then we want it at the main debate, so we have a contradictory examination, and that's all that can be based on. If that wasn't the case, that's the only thing that can't be based on. Next, I'm sure it'll cause a lot of... it didn't actually cause it, but it'll talk, it'll cross-examination. We introduced this 2008 law to cross-examination, now which were the reasons I say I won't get into it, but in practice what happened, nothing. We still don't have that system that we watch in American movies, so the stenogram is done, so you can see exactly who said what, but you have a cross-examination that the judge then dictates in the record, so it's the same as it was before. So from that point of view, he didn't bring any improvement. On the other hand, we have professional judges who can very well assess it. We estimate that cross-examination is much more appropriate for the jury system than for our system of professional judges. Even when we talked to the practitioners, it is evident that the cross-examination also leads to an extension of the main debate, so that is an additional element. It's connected to one more thing, which is why I'm speaking connected, and it's from a returned inquisitor maximum. So what were we doing? We introduced cross-examination and then we said that the court can't carry out evidence on official duty and practically print it out. What have we done with that? Once again in a system where we have professional judges who are qualified and able to do this job well, we actually broke out their weapons that even when they see that because of the failure of one or the other, they won't pass any evidence that matters so they can make a verdict, they can't do anything. We're going back to where we were. We're going back to the Inquisitor Max, and the court can order under certain conditions to carry out some evidence. So by not only strengthening the role of the court, we're actually making it more appropriate to this system of ours, which is traditionally ours, means the system of professional judges, not the jury system. One thing, wrongly renewing the criminal proceedings. We have hereby abolished an extraordinary legal remedy, an extraordinary mitigation of the penalties that the Supreme Court has done so far. What was that about? So after the verdict had been reached, if there were circumstances that existed at the time of the verdict, it would have affected the level of punishment, and when we removed it from the law in 2008, all of this became a pardoning system, which is not really appropriate, and this is not a place of pardon. And we are actually returning this extraordinary legal remedy here, but in a way that is no longer done by the Supreme Court, it is done by a first-degree court who actually passed the verdict and which is in the best position to assess whether there has been a disease, whether there has been any such event that could affect the level of punishment. Here I'll remind you when we had the Law on BUSKOK it's actually connected we were talking about the Institute when later someone who was convicted of data for detecting a crime etc. So we can link it here to this institute. What's also very important is, these are these guidelines regarding, or changes to, the position of the victim. There's one thing about children. So, when we study children, we introduce a person of trust because we saw that this is how it is now often results in additional trauma of children. We're also introducing a whole series of rights to the victim's notice, because the victim needs to know what's going on in the criminal proceedings where it's damaged. I'm linking this now to an agreement that was also one of the institutes that was often mentioned. So, we leave the agreement, but we arrange it among other things in a way that we do catalogues of works that are possible and that when it comes to the most serious crimes against life and the body, sexual freedoms require the consent of the victim. We don't think it's appropriate to agree where, say, the rape victim doesn't even ask for an opinion on it. So that's what we're introducing here as well. And one more thing, it's about domestic violence. Too often for us, we consider the institute to be so-called. A privileged witness was actually being abused. Namely, what it's about. There are a whole series of witnesses who, primarily because of their relatives' relationship with the perpetrator, do not have to testify, and this is the grace that recognises their law and remains so far. However, what was happening in practice? Let's just say his wife did a statement and report to his husband that he committed domestic violence and later simply for life on, for the sake of the community and so give it up. And then when he comes to the main debate he says I use grace, I won't show. What does that mean? The whole criminal procedure is going down by then, but more importantly, we actually have an unpunished act of family violence. What we're introducing here right now, we're saying it's possible to use the privilege of not giving a statement. So no one can force these individuals to testify. But if they testify once, if they testify once, then they'll use it, I can't give it up anymore. It will affect efficiency and will affect this one of the additional pressures that sometimes appear to the victims. We introduce some new precautions also related to this, such as a ban on stalking or harassing a victim or another person, a distance from home. Now we're precisioning it here. So, here's more or less, I say there are 250 changes. I could talk about them for a long time, but I won't. This means briefly what the law says. We're in two readings. We're open to all suggestions, though. Of course we want the law to be as good as it gets. I immediately announce that we will go to another reading as soon as possible so that one of us can extract the legion as long as possible, and here's a thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53505	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53506	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. So you have an excuse in your sentence. I responded to sentence 5 of the criminal proceedings, yet a fragmentary change. And you said yourself that, you should have changed the whole law, there was no time. But you have an excuse for the fact that the Constitutional Court has been thinking for three years about what to do with those articles. If the Constitutional Court has reconsidered the Code of Criminal Procedure for so long then you have every excuse. But all together, I think there was plenty of time since last year when it could have started with the Constitutional Court's decision. Let's just say we didn't do lex perkovic for a few months, that the legal experts were doing a smart job, not a bad job, Sisif's job, pushing a rock up the hill, and that stone would eventually run over us because it would roll back. It is certainly so that the Law of Criminal Procedure can be fully passed. Because if 250 provisions of 506 provisions have been amended it is actually the essence that has been changed. And I think it's a shame that it wasn't done and that this very complex matter wasn't finished and that it wasn't said, here's what we did. Judges, i.e. the judiciary has one good instrument. Now that we have several interventions on the Law on Criminal Procedure, the judge will get an additional motive for extension regardless of the deadlines, some deadlines that have been set by the court proceedings will take far more than they have lasted. And besides, you know for yourself that we have three times as long trials as European practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53507	Thank you very much. Replication response, Your Honor's Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53508	I'd just like to say that different laws deal with different segments of the ministry. Neither one of them affected the work of this law, nor the work of the ministry at all. As you will see in very nearly before you there will be a whole series of other legal changes not only of these. So we've been working on a plan that we've plotted before, regardless of the impact of any other regulation, etc. So there was no influence. As for the length of the proceedings, they will surely be shorter with this. I'll tell you one thing, when I explained the changes to the Penal Code if you remember, so I told you among other things what we want to do to relieve the county courts of excessive jurisdiction and give them the opportunity and obligation to carry out the most serious criminal acts, we have, in the first six months of this year, since the entry into force of the new Penal Code with these amendments that we have come to have twice as few proceedings before, so the newly initiated proceedings before the county courts than in six months of the previous year. So that's the effect of this. With this tool, it is certain that the court proceedings will go faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53509	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53510	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, to be honest, I was surprised when you spoke, explained these provisions in the law that speak of property acquired illegally. So three years ago, a virtually complete OIB system was established. One of the reasons for the introduction of the OIB was this one. So what I was saying and then I'm saying today that the OIB is one of the government's strongest levers to fight crime, to fight corruption and everything. So what, at the time the OIB was established, was only not working and it was known that it wouldn't work for a few years, it was still a garnery. It's from the Justice Department's field of action. Not because of the minister's guilt from now on, but these are the consequences of practically a century-long inaction in the change of ownership. So the next step that should have been taken over the past three years and it should have been the final one of the central registers. And when the central register of any state institution is established when it wants to withdraw certain information about the change in assets, it can be very easy to obtain property based on earnings. I now ask one question why I care about the OIB project, it has practically remained at almost the same level other than the part used by the Ministry of Finance as it was 3.4 years ago. To whom is this in the interest, why did this not come into play, at which point is the full information and recording of all the owners of the real estate in Croatia in grantovnica? And another very interesting thing. Do you know, Mr. Justice Minister, that's what the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the CNB should know that today you can't put funds in any business bank if you don't give JMBG, and the JMBG as an official identification sign has been abolished since 2002. Therefore, if the OIB is at this point something which is official and you didn't mention it at any point in your debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53511	Replication response, Your Honor's Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53512	So, I didn't mention the OIB because it's understood. It exists and we use it. Also in the system that you mentioned the OIB garnery exists, it is imported. We can talk about it when it comes, but here, it's about something else. You assume that every criminal will come and register under the OIB and report I've made this and that transaction you give me follow. This system that we want to lift up now exists and has other countries that also have an OIB, and the OIB is not enough. So this is something where you're monitoring the transaction, and we're also aware of what's happening right now, which can't just be traced through the OIB. You have a cover-up of property that goes to a whole other person, you have property that goes abroad. So you have a whole series of things. The illusion is that we can sit somewhere in the room, tap the OIB and then see what's going on. So, this department and the estate reconnaissances I'm talking about, they're going to use the OIB but it's just one of the tools that people are going to use to see where criminals are hiding their assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53513	Thank you, too. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go. ... I don't care about God, it's all the same to me and to God that I don't compare. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53514	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. This is where whenever amendments to any criminal law are discussed, there is a law on criminal proceedings, of course, that causes a particular public interest, especially when the basic law has been amended several times, and always on the trail to jump to what Croatia has achieved, to jump to thieves, criminals, that the state has proved so capable of not capitulating before crime and criminals. It is true that everything regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, therefore, comes too late when the act has already been done. However, when you have the principle of efficiency but also the principle of protection of human rights but primarily here I am apostrophe of the principle of efficiency by which it is not possible to avoid the hand of justice, then it is so certain that it is a good law and has a message, it has a good preventive action to prevent potential criminals from committing crimes. What the minister was talking about in the introduction, we all know the Constitutional Court's decision 43 provisions have been lifted. They are mostly those concerned with protection and where the Constitutional Court requires better, greater protection of the victim and greater protection of the defendant himself. Now, whenever we discuss the Criminal Procedure Act on all the provisions that can be undermined under certain principles governing the Criminal Procedure Act, there are two. First, that none of this is the principle of efficiency, that none of the guilty should withdraw, but another equally important principle, if not more importantly, that none of the innocent should be convicted. But listen because unfortunately Croatia has been hit for the last decade, and even before, such troubles have occurred that there are no more cases to talk about than occurrences. And how do you control all this now? People are rightly dissatisfied. Well, these changes are also on the trail to answer the question that all those changes that were made by me would say revolutionary to that law on criminal proceedings that left the investigation conducted by the investigating judge, but also now you can see which are smaller and what needs to be improved, change to achieve this fundamental principle, in order to change the world so that the innocent are not afraid but that the guilty have nothing to hope for but prison. I'd start at the end, the question of taking away property. There was often a question of real estate, so that visible property. However, crime-organized crime, especially one aimed at the robbery of state property, has reached such an extent that you can at least learn about it. And that's why this is the Minister you're telling the truth, a neat lander that's something that's important to us for a lot of things and of course for these. But follow the assets that go to foreign accounts that go to tax havens, the fight against money laundering, that is the end of the top topic in the EU, too, because that property is no longer visible. But not to be much longer about it now, but the main indication is what all people see. Not only is this asset visible, which doesn't match the incomes because we're a small country and everything is known where people are simply asked where they come from, but also the way they live. It's not to hide it is visible and it's already lights that need to be lit which should be a sign that something is wrong with the body of persecution. So what is crucial and what are the key changes that are all given to be laid down in the fundamental principles if we even remind ourselves that the criminal procedure is a set of rules laid down by law and other regulations and determine the conduct of judicial bodies as well as other bodies involved in the proceedings and when a criminal offence is committed, or when a criminal offence is suspected. It is important that this principle of legality be well-defined but also in those preparations, which is why it is very important that what the minister said is that each norm be explained here to see why some norm is so determined. We've learned so far that the deadline is 30 days, the explanation is set, so is that an explanation? So I'm a bit of a cartoon now, but there are a lot of norms that were very important and that still hid the real meaning of a certain norm in the explanation. The principle of acousticity, of which Mr. Minister spoke a lot, ultimately and fundamentally that initial impulse was precisely that of setting a criminal procedure almost entirely acoustic. And that's why the State's Attorney's Office became the master of the investigative process and the police redistribution force subdued to him. However, the main debate also wanted to follow the line precisely that it was the judges who were only watching, and the parties were carrying out evidence. It's especially visible to the public when it's done in cross-examination. However, it is not only this reason why the minister has urged that the damage is just a judge, an educated professional to observe or impose on him the role of observers, rather than actively taking part in asking questions. And this is precisely because the parties to the criminal proceedings have not sufficiently taken up their share of responsibility, so the court is not only accused but even more paradoxical defences. For good action, all participants are responsible, so the judge sees that no questions are asked that go and favor only the defendant. And it's supposed to be just for the sake of principle and looking for material... and that innocent doesn't end up in prison it was necessary and changed. So now we really have one system abandoned that system to have an investigation, it's mostly the rest, but in the main debate, we have a mixed system, and I think it's given the council's composition that there are professionals besides the judges, depending on the composition of the council, the size of the council, and that guarantees exactly the realization and the principles of the search for truth in the process. Also in the case of material and formal defense. I think all the conditions are absolutely met now. There was always a problem with the defence as it was set up, and an objection, as a criminal procedure was put in place. That they're lagging behind in the defense preparations and they don't know what's going on, what the police are doing, what the state's attorney is doing. It can never be the same because when criminals commit a crime, they don't inform the bodies, I'm committing a crime now, and you start your own forces. But there were also legitimate objections but they also manage with the Constitutional Court's decision here and with these amendments guarantee good protection of the defendants in the proceedings. I repeat that supreme principle that innocent by accident was convicted. Protecting also personal freedoms. We now see how, the truth was also a complaint in this investigation procedure conducted by the state's attorney and police. Now an investigative judge in some way does not carry out an investigation but is increasingly involved in the investigation itself as a controller but not only as a mere controller of legality and all that has been carried out by the state's attorney and police but now has a stronger and formal role to play so that he now decides, therefore, on complaints. When an investigation is brought, it is also very important that the defendant, although it could be matured, is now said when the investigation begins, when the procedure is official. Similarly, what has caused and people do not settle down with the fact that many criminal charges filed either by the police or by the state's attorney's office are not resolved or that people do not know what is happening to them. The truth is that when a report is filed, I won't waste a lot of words about it, the question is how much evidence there is for all of it. However, this one deadline which is now set, within which time limit, within 2.5 months, must be decided or rejected, or initiated. This ultimately contributes greatly to the expeditivity of the process but contributes and the reputation of institutions which, without the support of the public, cannot yet carry out the task which is given to them by the Constitution of the day and which we here, by better laws, want to enable them to play that role as well. Namely, the applicant of the application of any person who is not directly affected by the work is those acts that are being persecuted, especially those who are being persecuted by official duty. But they were in some way directly and affected because they worked at that factory, because they didn't at that company, at that company, they didn't get paid, they failed everything and they know or doubt where the money went. Hence, those who often filed criminal charges were disappointed. And they made the impression that every investigation went to hell. However, in this way, the hard work that both the police and the state's attorney's office, of course, are often not visible to the public, but there is no reason for such a delay, especially given such tools and additional tools, both to the state's attorney's office and then to the police who carry out these measures and orders by the state's attorney's office. Many in the public have caused two institutes that have changed exactly what has contributed to not only me saying certain cases but that an entire policy is revealed, unfortunately, instead of here in Parliament, it is being revealed to our courts. But he's caused a lot of controversy over these pardons, about the settlements. We need to know that these are crimes that can be achieved with knowledge from the very circle that he participated in. And they're precious witnesses. The former systems defended, felt that such things were immoral, however, the Anglo-Saxon system which is many things where Europe has taken over such provisions, and so we and this modern criminality that has such sophisticated forms are impossible to reveal, it is impossible to expose, so it is impossible to agree at the end to obtain adequate judicial justice without such persons. But what's new, which the minister specifically drew attention to, is that in the case of crimes against life and the body, so where we always have a certain victim, or in a crime against the proboscis, the rapes that such things cannot be done, the defendant can't be settled in court or state, or on a proposal and the state's attorney's office alone without the consent of the victim. That's kind of how it's created. And one, and one balance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's the final One sentence, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this Act. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53515	Thank you very much. We have a replica, a respected representative of Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53516	Dear colleagues, you were wondering, in fact, you were wondering, you said that the state must not capitulate... Criminals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm up to one sentence you said: criminals don't inform the police or the court, now we're committing a crime. I'd caricate it a little, even sometimes signaled if not a criminal then journalists. Remember how much it was written about waste in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. How many times the finger resists there is illegally spent money, there is spent on it. The employers themselves, who are certainly the most important factor in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, also shrugged their shoulders, and the state authorities did not respond in time. And now that we've had it almost said watch us steal now we're all breaking up all of a sudden. So the Croatian public did not surprise what is happening to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, no one is surprised. We'd be surprised if some big public institution or some company were to say listen, everything here is clean. People would fall on their ass and say, "Don't fuck around." It's really clean. But we've retreated, capitulated in front of criminals, it's almost a lost battle. Why, because a large part of the criminals are in the state system, and this has been shown by court proceedings, lengthy court proceedings, court proceedings that were to be spoken of for years, perhaps a decade and something about crime in the Croatian highways. You know when we'll process it? In 15 years, when I guess one generation will die those involved in crime. Therefore, we are slowly capitulating and pro-forming some investigations, which is certainly not only the executive authority's fault. At least it's the executive authority's fault than it's on the soul of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53517	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53518	Dear colleague, there is no need for you to agree with anything but because you are right and you need to clean up... the stables, but the weight of the task that has come here before us, in front of this authority is no excuse to fall into hopelessness, nothing can be done. You need to start decommissioning started, although it's networked, it's not just taking a few bars. You have if you break one layer of net still two or three, it's an entire hierarchy, but whose decommissioning started and that cleaning, that's what all the branches of the government need to work on, I agree with you. But equally, some crimes that are not visible, which are outside should also be exposed. But you're quite right, and that's what I particularly apostrophe, so all people see is how someone lives. He doesn't even need to see the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53519	Thank you very much. We're going further into the club debate. Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53520	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ministers with the co-worker. The art of life in our country is probably based on constant adaptation, and therefore this fifth change in the very short time of the Criminal Procedure Act. However, frequent and selective changes to the law. You know that when foreign investors think about which countries they will invest money in one of the main objections they find in Croatia and they are absolutely right, these are too often changes to the Tax Code, or too often we change taxes, and here is Mr Linic, who announced yesterday, that he will change some taxes again, but we often change criminal legislation too. We're, uh, someone's already been talking here in the debate, too much of a country, and that doesn't make us any more orderly. In fact, we are an insecure, unsettled state with excess laws and a lack of practice, good practice. Earlier, Minister Milenic spoke of the Constitutional Court having reconsidered for three years, and after three years, they came up with and abolished 43 articles, or asked for them to change by 15 December this year. We know that the bad laws and frequent changes to the law are the worst kind of tyranny, worse than lawlessness. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act shall be adopted as I said before in the replica, too late because they, you must know, must enter into force no later than 15 December 2013, so within a month and a half. In reforming criminal procedural legislation, says this example, we enter campaign rather than meaningful, not comprehensively and not thoroughly. After almost a century and a half 2008, new rules and a new concept of criminal proceedings were adopted. The state's attorney, with judicial oversight, is uniting persecution and investigation, and that's the biggest newspaper. What was the purpose of 2008 of amending the criminal procedure? Aroundly uncompromising, protect the civil rights of individuals, including the accused and, on the other hand, ensure a swift, simple and effective procedure to protect society from criminal offences and those who commit crimes. It means we protect ourselves from criminals. The Attorney General argues that he and the State's Attorney's Office have just been able to prosecute criminals, but it seems to me that it's only an alibi for cowardice, bargaining, and in some cases a partner and one of the deadly sins of inaction. In addition, President Josipovic has time-consumingly claimed that Mr Bajic would end up in a pot of boiling water, too, would be cooked. And let's not forget about Josipovic's lawyer. By inaction, the DORH protected those people with whom it is rude and unworthy to be even in the same room, and it protects them today as new cases reveal. Despite the fact that they have collected 200 applications, it has never been figured out why some people in Croatia are not being processed. It is the greatest riddle and never, when asked here, Mr. Bajic was not told about it and that. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. And many legal experts argue that the extraction of Mladen Bajic is short of legal investigative tools on air-conditioned legs. Because Croatia had before 2008. Law on criminal proceedings, Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. And what was missing? There was a lack of political will. And it should be admitted that the furniture that opened and freed the ghost from the bottle had made a major shift. There was no courage. And if it hadn't been for the pressure of the EU at the time, I think we'd still be groping in the dark. It should not be disturbed that Croatia was at that time in full negotiating status, and that, without the launch of large processes, Chapter 23 would not be closed. The judiciary had to become a moment, at least for a moment more effective. And as the time of Mr Mladen Bajic's annual report nears, the Croatian Parliament awakened the fall action of the DORH against corruption. So after a year, we realized that corruption still exists. That is why I propose that the Parliament adopt a proposal that I have already told the press, that Mr Bajic give the report at least 4 times a year and that four times a year pass a test in the Croatian Parliament. The desire to survive will make him four times more active and we are, all Croatian citizens will profit at it. The public knows why the Criminal Procedure Act is experiencing another fifth amendment and addition. The Constitutional Court, as the Minister and colleague said before me, declared 43 articles inconsistencies with applicable law. layishly speaking unconstitutional, illegal in part or completely. Last year we changed 17 articles and then when I spoke on behalf of the club I said that I hoped that it would be on time as judges could apply, start applying it in time to adopt and apply that material first. And this time, the remaining number of non-compliant provisions and two hundredths of them is changed. It changes out of 500 and 250 provisions, 500, 600 more provisions. Why on earth not the whole law? It would be better to adopt a new Criminal Procedure Act in order to avoid nomotechnical discrepancies and to facilitate business and finally satisfy justice for those who have had to apply the law since 15 December. In addition, these amendments to the law are adopted too late, irrespective of the Constitutional Court's specific date, but too late for the credible application of the law in practice. In European practice, the deadline for adaptation to such changes is not less than 6 months. We should have passed the law before summer. The judges will now have a new excuse for three and a half times longer trials than the longest in the rest of the civilized judicially stable world. Therefore, why did the Ministry of Justice not offer the full text of the law, i.e. the new law. We heard earlier, Minister Milenic said we didn't make it. They have been engaged since the Spring Law on a European arrest warrant needlessly. What was the basic objection to the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act? Bad, lack of protection of human rights. In all phases of criminal proceedings, judicial protection was not allowed. No firm and accurate deadlines were prescribed. No time limits were set for bringing charges after the criminal proceedings were completed. It was not, and it seems to me that it is not now fully ensured that the defendant and the defender are actively involved in the proceedings from the very beginning. Because we know that abuse in court proceedings has been too much. The position of the parties in the state's attorney's investigation must be even. The suspect should have protection in the process. Why can't a defendant and his attorney be present when examining witnesses or court practitioners conducted by a state attorney? This law needs to be done, and it probably wants to be made possible. The lack of this law is also in that it is not precise how long the evidence can last, although the law is significantly corrected. The control of the work of the State's Attorney's Office is not to this end precise in order to avoid the malice of those conducting the investigation and pressing charges. It's all on the back of a judge who decides on procedures in the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. It is the judge of the investigation who decides in the investigating prison and guarantees on the basis of the investigation. Abuses are still largely possible. One of the cancers of the wounds are the so-called so-called cancer. Forgiveness. When are forgiveness given? When it is estimated that the public interest in persecuting another person is greater than the sins of witnesses, the pretendant is forgiven. Forgiveness opens up a space for great manipulation, so you can darken 30 million kunas and if you evaluate individuals you would not trust with your safety end with a fine of 100 hours of peeling potatoes. Or remain a pillar of society as many who remain on the law of the Republic of Croatia are still pillars of society, even moralizers in the Croatian Parliament. It's important who assesses the level of public interest. According to current practice, the only culprit for the darkened billions would appear to be only Mr. Sanader but not his flocks. Many have already come to forgive. I expect the Ministry of Justice in them as brave heroes of testimony to start publishing comics and handing out medals. The crime will be re-paid provided you find yourself a greater criminal and a good forgiver. The good news of this law is that the condemning verdict cannot be based solely or to a decisive extent, as the minister just said, on uncontested evidence. One of the newspapers we talked about last time and probably not a newspaper investigative prison is an investigative prison at home. It's so-called. House arrest. However, house arrest was allowed according to the old CAP and why was it not applied? For the simple reason that they weren't passed in time, sublegal acts. So the state couldn't even sting at it. Of course the question is, who can be in house arrest? And that's precise, absolutely certainly can't be serious criminals, but people older, pregnant, and those defendants who will eventually be held accountable in courts for minor crimes. It is very important that no one can retain illegally acquired property, property acquired by criminal activity. Because remember we have some provisions in tax laws that will pay taxes on what a man can't prove by his work, by investing. So, it would seem that if there was no law, he'd mutilate the crime. And now the question is, one of the most important issues is 500 and more, when the state pays the court's costs to convicts. And that's what the minister was talking about. When he finds out that there's absolutely no chance that the defendant himself will pay the defendant. What if the defendant, and later the convict, transferred all the property to another person? There's Minister Milenic right when he talked about this completely certain that criminals don't speak here I transferred all the property to myself or I transferred it to my mother and to my mistress. This discovery of where their property is hiding is one of the hardest jobs. It's interesting that... The defendant shall be entitled to request the defendant's compensation for the difference between the costs set and the reward of the selected defender at the applicable tariff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What can one of the strongest lobbys, a lawyer's lobby, do? Seems like lawyers never get much money. We'll talk about the rest later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53521	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53522	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to look at is a part of the debate of an esteemed colleague who points out that this law is being passed by a campaign. That's not true. This law is quite the opposite of the fruit of a systematic work and in some way represents the crown of what we started and through the amendment of the Penal Code which had to be timed to be adopted and to come into force with the Penal Code itself, i.e. before its application, with the first amendment from 2012. The law on criminal proceedings that had to be brought into line with the termology of the new Penal Code. Furthermore, certain provisions of the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime have been amended, the provisions of the Law on Courts have been amended and only after all these actions, following a long, extensive public debate we come to the adoption of such a law. This is not about a campaign approach, although it is about a very systematic and careful approach to congratulate the minister and his ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53523	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53524	My colleague, what we think of Minister Milenić's work, we've spoken several times. If you were right, then we'd have a whole law on the table. We're still saying that time was enough. We pass legal acts without real judicial reform. Lawmaking is not a reform, it is a legislative reform. In the judiciary, in order for there to be no campaign moves, it takes a lot longer to dive and need a social one, so if you want political intervention as well. Because what is happening in the Croatian judiciary is certainly not good, and for this the legislator, or those who propose laws and those who adopt laws, is very responsible. All that I said in my argument is based on arguments, and besides, the Minister is not here to admit or acknowledge Mr. Minister's claim that it would have been much better if we had passed a whole law. In a year and a few days, could the Constitutional Court have changed its decision, or recommendation, to the full Law on Criminal Procedure? I can see that Mr. Milenic's climate couldn't have been done, but that we didn't do some unnecessary things for sure to get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53525	Thank you very much. Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53526	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you spoke about the frequency of changes in the law, which, of course, does not seem stimulating. You also talked about the speed of adoption and more concrete about slowness, and I, given the importance of the topic and said a lot about the importance of grantovnica and the OIB, and about this law, want to mention an example that speaks contrary, although it speaks of speed. The decision of the Minister at the end of June 2013 abolished the land-booking department based in Đurđevec, and the same department was set up three months earlier as a special department in order to enable citizens of the area to obtain their land-book rights more quickly and easily. This, of course, brings it into an unequal position. You were talking in that section about equality, 25 thousand inhabitants of the Đurđevec citizens and 7 surrounding municipalities, of course you say the possibility is the Internet that it can contribute. This document cannot be used for the purpose of obtaining it. So, surely such a speed is simply unacceptable, of course it leads to an unequal position of the citizen of that part, and of course such a garter... as such specifically in this case of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53527	Do you have an answer? Here's a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53528	Dear colleague Milinkovic, you were talking about the slowness of me about speed, but I think we talked about the same thing. Well, frequent changes to the law cause legal uncertainty because we don't pass another law, we don't adopt it, and we know and that's what Minister Milenic used to say here that we have far better laws than we have practice, especially this set of laws that we passed before the summer we passed, we brought them to the Parliament unanimously and the opposition agreed that these legal solutions were excellent. And the least Croatian Labourers have objections are these legislative activities of the Ministry of Justice. Had it not been for Lex Perkovic and the surrender of Minister Milenic, who is certainly of this proposal would not have dropped this shadow that fell on the Ministry of Justice. Judges and lawyers are chasing each other's heads. When I talk to them, they say, "Can you one week not pass some law that will cause us trouble?" They're not even that bad old, those good judges, those who don't do their jobs, who do their job more loyally, who protect crime instead of condemning crime is anyway what this Parliament is going to bring or won't take away. We should start to think about judicial reform in this way, I have already said several times that a part of the good judges can make excellent progress, and one part must fall out of that society that does not belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53529	New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53530	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned fellow Vuksic again this is a very common topic when it comes to our negotiations especially in the area of justice, so you mentioned the EU pressure and that nothing special would have happened if there had been no EU pressure. I would like to say it would be good to discuss it at least once in Parliament and in political space that we have a clear vision of what has happened. So no one, at least according to my knowledge from the EU from the European Commission, has asked Croatia to process this or that one, to hold him or her, for this or that one to be tried. What the European Commission or the EU has requested is that we substrate evidence primarily on judicial reform of the independence of the judiciary, so in that sense we have changed the provisions of the Law on the State Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Office and given courts, and we have done many great things, which unfortunately faced resistances to the merger of courts, etc. So independence. We passed and then the law on the confiscation of property obtained illegally, etc. So there has never been political pressure from the EU in this regard. We did some work really because we thought it was good that it was good for Croatia's future. And it would be good for us to agree on that once because it is not good for us to insult ourselves often times what we have done and why we are as a state and as politicians ultimately able. So we opted for the judiciary from the DORH, USKOK to the courts to drive or better put out any political pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53531	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53532	Dear colleagues, Kosor, will not agree to this, and yet you yourself have admitted in your replica that the EU has requested reforms in the judiciary. If the EU had asked for reforms in the judiciary and if we hadn't without those reforms that I think have just been initiated, I would never have closed down if I had been a just judge so far I would have closed Chapter 23, so we know, without that pressure we wouldn't have closed Chapter 23. After that I told you there was a political will. You were at the head of the government when that political will was expressed. But we dried up at that time, so we opened up the ghost from the bottle, released the spirit from the bottle, opened the bottle, and then started to put it back in. As I speak all the time in two years since the Kukuriku coalition came to power as if corruption had disappeared in Croatia. She's not missing. It is evident that corruption continues to flourish only that it is much more subtle for criminals who do so, now they understand what is seen, as seen, looking for new connections and will never and will never exist a country where there is no corruption so that we know. And we see Western countries with various lawsuits from the HYPO Bank to the purchase of military vehicles and Mercedes and all other vehicles, we see that other countries far more are not immune to crime. Mr. Sanader would never have left the post of Prime Minister if it hadn't been for pressure from Europe. You can say whatever you want my stock is finished that sentence looks funny and miserable today. He's gone for crime, which you can see now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53533	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53534	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Is this about amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act or is it essentially about a whole new law? The Criminal Procedure Act shall have 552 articles. This Law, called the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Criminal Procedure Act, has some 250 articles. It is evident that there will be, in fact, a whole new law that bears the label that it is about amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. Because if more than half of the law is changed then it is difficult to talk about amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why do we call these laws from the Amendment and the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Let's go back, the 2007 Criminal Procedure Act did not justify expectations of being a powerful tool, a powerful tool in the fight against corruption and organised crime. As a result, great demands were made both to the public and to the professional public and to the general public to approach the draft Criminal Procedure Act, which will provide an effective tool in the fight against corruption and organised crime. This Law was adopted in 2008, it entered into force as a whole, except for the provisions of the Law on the High Criminal Court on 1 September 2011. The 2008 Criminal Procedure Act has indeed found great approval of both the professional and political and the general public because it has been seen as indeed an instrument, as a single tool, as one tool, which will give the judiciary weapons in the fight against corruption and organised crime. And indeed he began a series of anti-corruption processes that were largely completed both by the power and powerlessness, by condemning judgments. The effectiveness of this 2008 Criminal Procedure Act should be measured with the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. And when statistics are viewed as working between 80 or 90% of the convictions in the area of corrupt crime, organised crime, then they want to withdraw the correlation with good legal solutions and the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act that resulted in a successful fight against corruption and organised crime. In July, 19 July 2012, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia declared the unconstitutional 43 provisions of the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act with the grounds that they did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the applicable law and that they did not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. 43 provisions. As of 2012, the Parliament is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision in late 2012, 17 provisions remain and 26 provisions remain to be made in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court then also gives a solution, makes a decision and in its decision to make these new compliance with... The remaining 26 provisions should also be laid down that they may apply no later than 15 December 2013 this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the Constitutional Court's decision was since 19 July 2012, the Parliament has brought one piece into line, the rest is 26. A working group has been appointed with the task of bringing into line the contested provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act with the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the task force has gone far beyond and far beyond, so that it has drawn up a proposal which consists of amending more than 250 articles of the Criminal Procedure Act. The minister argued that there was no time for the Constitutional Court to comply in full with the Law on Criminal Procedure with the Constitutional Court's decision. I believe that there was a time, it should have been immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision was made, so in July 2012, immediately approach the drafting, harmonisation of the Criminal Procedure Act with the abolished part of the law decided by the Constitutional Court. Why was there time? Well, there was a time at the end of 2012, the second half of 2012, the third quarter of 2012, was the whole two quarters of 2013. The public debate opened on these amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure in July 2013. What could be the quality public debate that opened in the summer of 2013? It is clear that these can be very modest results from such a public debate which opens on such an important topic in the summer of 2013. But what else is missing in this bill now? There's no explanation. At the Justice Committee, the minister said that they exist from the judiciary, from the State's Attorney's Office, a number of contributions to the debate which refer to these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. It would be correct if the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Justice or the Plenary of the Croatian Assembly had been shown the results of this public debate, to see what the position of the various segments of the judicial authority, the state's attorney's office, lawyers, legal theorists, practitioners, so all those interested in criminal proceedings and the application of criminal law is. At that time, MPs in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament could refer to a whole series of differences that are being implemented by this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. Unfortunately, that's missing. Secondly, this Constitutional Court decision that amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act should be made and should therefore be applied to enter into force on 15 December of this year, the law is now in the first reading. The law is in the first reading today. How much will the legion be, how long will it be for those who apply this law, to be thoroughly and well acquainted with all the institutes and not to have major problems in practice, in trials, in the conduct of criminal proceedings in the application of this law. The minister says there will be plenty of time for everyone to meet and that they have already met, but I doubt it because when you look at these 250 articles and when you look at that there has been a change in certain institutes, it is now putting on one mixed procedure, an inquisition procedure, an inquisition method with a state's attorney's investigation, and it opens up very large, many issues in the application of this law. And now, finally, the key question, why and what are the reasons why if one law, the Criminal Procedure Act, proved to be a very effective tool in the fight against corruption and organised crime, especially corruption related to politics, why and certain provisions that the Constitutional Court has abolished are not in line with those provisions that tax part of the CAP's tools in relation to corruption and organised crime. Why it went to the creation of a new, practically new law and why certain parts of the CAP were changed if it proved to be very deadly weapons and tools and tools in the fight against corruption and organised crime. The villains would say so something changes that gave good results in order to defuse these good results, but I think only the villains can make such a diabolical complaint prominent. For these reasons, it would be necessary for the Ministry to deliver to the Croatian Parliament and before voting on this law to continue the debate, to provide an additional explanation indicating all those results that were carried out in the public debate, from the judicial authority, from the state's attorney, from the lawyer's office, therefore from all the actors involved in the application of the criminal proceedings. And if we could see what the position is, we can trust the minister to say that all these parts have given, that they have given a positive opinion but I would like it and we would like it to be subscribed in the Croatian Parliament, that we should get to know it, and that only after that could we make one relevant decision regarding the position of the Croatian Democratic Community of this law. Until we get one such result of this public and professional debate, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will be kept on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53535	Thank you, Your Honor. And we have a replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53536	Very briefly, dear fellow Shakespeare. Part of the public, professional debates are also available on the Ministry's website and you can find a very large discussion on the Internet by fully agreeing that there has been too little time for some major expert debate. But the reactions of the profession can be read, they're no secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53537	There's no answer to the replica? On behalf of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53538	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, so far they've crystallized actually or one question, maybe two. It's about the arm. So, could we have done it before and what was the deadline for extracting the legion? As far as the first one is concerned, we started working right after the Constitutional Court's decision. You know you've already made certain changes, so you've passed legal changes. After that, we went and it's true that we were expanding the business outside the Constitutional Court's decision. That's right. And we might as well have a few questions, and who does it bother, say, with the real estate reconnaissance? Why would anyone be afraid of that? Shouldn't we have touched it in law if we thought it was a good change. Shouldn't we have touched this, like the privileged testimony I was talking about, and the Constitutional Court wasn't talking about it? We could also say we won't touch it. Why? Because our ideal system is what we have. It is true that we have touched much more than what the Constitutional Court asked for because these are the things that we thought should be touched. And now and in the future whenever there is an amendment to the law, I will always choose to touch everything we feel is necessary. I agree that any amendments to the law mean one destabilization of the system and that it should always be on the scale of how much we change in relation to what we apply. And it's a very difficult decision often. But in front of us, I took an example of property reconnaissances. Well, we want a better seizure, but in this theory, we don't touch anything beyond the Constitutional Court's decision, so we shouldn't touch it. So we should've let the criminals keep the property. Okay. Maybe we could do that. If it's voted that way, it'll come out. We could have limited ourselves to 26 changes but we wanted to and explained every change why we went with her. If we were supposed to touch, I don't know again I said about the children, the interrogation of the children. A few provisions again. We could've done it without them, so it wouldn't be 250, it would've been 240. Now we can get every one we put away and we'll get to that 26 plus something the Constitutional Court said and then we could really erase them with a rubber, even if I think it's impossible. But maybe we could have passed this law a year ago. But he wouldn't be good. This is a much better result than what we've done. What are we doing next? We had a choice, we could let him into the Croatian Parliament in July, that is, at the end of June. We did, but between that and having one very extensive public debate through two, practically three months, we chose this second. We shortened the vacatio legion, we did, but we got such a good feedback effect. And all those who need to work are already familiar with what the law applies. I mean, here the law was sent to an opinion in July not only put on our web but we directly sent it to all courts, all the departments of law school. The State's Attorney's Office has been involved in his work since the beginning, and the Supreme Court is participating, but we have sent them special. We've sent a whole series of other state bodies, NGOs. All responded and all comments were answered and included. So that's by us and so we chose, we chose that approach any more precious than going as soon as possible, let it out and have a longer vacacio legion. Of course it's always the choice you have to make, but we've decided on this. As far as the remarks are concerned, I'll make them available personally. Here I have them, you can make an insight. But since it's not a procedure as far as I know, we're not officially delivering them. But they're available to everyone, they're all responsible, you can read who said what, what, what were the remarks, etc. to prepare themselves as best as possible for the debate. Because I say procedure is not delivered, we haven't delivered before, we won't do it now. I say, there's always a choice that's ahead of us, but now and in the future we'll be touching through every law everything we think we can do better. The choice is we know as you said destabilizing the system correctly, but the choice between that and the inconceivable I will always choose the action. Well, maybe sometimes we go like that. Secondly, you will find three other laws in parallel with this which we also had to prepare during this period. We need to amend the USKOK Act and the State's Attorney's Office Act and enforce criminal sanctions. Why? Because it stems from the Constitutional Court's decision to change the CAP. So it's also done in this period. And they're in the process and they'll come before you. So it's a whole complex of what's coming, and that's why we went this way of time. We could have chosen, limited ourselves to this, made applications, but we think this is a better job. And here we are in front of you, and that's why I explained it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53539	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the replicas. First replica and respected representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53540	Thank you. It is not the Minister's objection to you that you went beyond the constitutional court's decision, but the main objection is why you didn't do it in the first half of this year. I agree that improving the installation of the property reconnaissance institute and around the so-called. a coloquial order of forgiveness far better solution. But the objection is why you didn't do it before you left very short time to prepare. Secondly, what you're saying is that you got from law school, from departments, from different civil society associations that you got their remarks and everything. It is not appropriate, my dear minister, that it should not be found in one text that is found with the reason of the law. In our long practice in the Croatian Parliament, we have numerous examples of large system laws, serious laws, which explain the position of individual experts, law schools, scientists. So it would be far more probative and useful for these remarks or praises or critical remarks to be found in one booth that was based on the draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53541	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53542	Thank you very much. So, as far as this other one is concerned, of course, it exists. Here we go, I don't know what procedure it is we can possibly attach, it's not a problem. I'm saying, I can give anyone an insight into any problem he's not. As far as this pace of adoption is concerned, that's always a question to you. We can also ask a question... In 2011, these changes in the anti-cipire which will be brought by the Constitutional Court or I don't know the property reconnaissance, so make them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We made them now in the time we had ahead of us and we did the best we could. The guidelines were adopted to amend the Criminal Procedure Act at the end of last year, the Working Group started working, worked at its pace, it was made up of all segments of the participants of the criminal proceedings, they finished their work saying exactly some things to do are being discovered, so see if we can touch this something else. And it's one process, but it's a process of passing a good law. I'd be happier if we had a longer vacito legion, but I repeat, we're passing this law and we have to make it for the Constitutional Court's decision. Ideally, it would have been brought a year earlier so that we could prepare for a year, but that is why we have informed all the participants of what the law says through this public debate. That's why we made the consolidated text so everyone can see what the law says. We will also do what the Croatian Parliament votes, of course, off the record. So these are a whole series of measures that we could do to get as good a text as we can in that time. I say, you can always choose, do less in a short time. We've been going on more in a long time. Here, the choice is ahead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53543	New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, you were talking about deadlines, dynamics and the desire to do better. So I'd say, since it's directly related to this law, I'd ask you what dynamics were leading you and speed, and you made it worse. You've made it worse for 25,000 inhabitants of the city of Djurjevac and surrounding municipalities. That you changed your mind within three months. First you set up that land-book and then you canceled. Of course you've also made a blow to the standard of those citizens who have to, we can now appeal to the Internet both these and those circumstances, we can call on ourselves but people have to travel to get a valid document in Koprivnica, which costs money. And we know that we have an agricultural population that has already suffered one blow to the standard and is certainly making it difficult for them. So that's what I'd be interested in, and I'd like to ask, so if you've made that decision so quickly, here you have three months of this deadline, so change it. Here, that's my suggestion if I may be the future but I'm not some lawyer but I'm looking at it this way from my position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53545	Thank you, too. Replicate response, Minister of Honor Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53546	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't answer, although it's not the topic of the CAP, so the suspension was passed by the 2010 Law. So I'm wondering why you didn't object to that suspension then. We just spent it. We didn't pass that law. That's one. Two, it's true, and it's about this reform that you're saying we're going to go with one more systematic suspension, it's true. Because we think we have too many small courts, we think that there you know I always compare it to the hospital, it's harder for a healthy person, it's harder for a patient to get to a hospital than to a healthy one. And we have more courts than hospitals. I mean, that's one comparison we should also have. Today's life is different. What's going to happen to this particular one? I don't know, but I'm saying the law was passed long ago, you didn't then, you actually probably raised his hand I don't know if you were there but it was passed, we spent it. We'll go with a new reform and a network when the time comes in due time we'll work on it so we'll see what fate will be and this ZK department. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53547	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53548	I hope Minister Milenić heard you too, or health. I fully agree with you when you say insubordination is one of the greatest sins, not to do. But again I repeat what you do only need to apply those who are practitioners. There's a lot of discretion. It's not a problem and I don't think that I even said it myself, nor did my colleague Shex or the others say, are the changes that are beyond those 43 brought by the Constitutional Court, recommended, but I do think that very large deteriorations occurred outside those 43 in these 200, but you said that was the choice of legislator, or the government's proposal whether to leave more time for judges to prepare for the adoption of the new law or to give more time for a public debate that says colleague Shakespeare was too short anyway. Everything seems to be in a hurry, and what you've just said is that there are still some suspensions, judicial reform, etc. I hope that the reform of the judiciary will be comprehensive, that we will bring a document in which this practice will be discussed. No one is, the only one who has been invited to talk about it is the Croatian Parliament, it does not mean meddling in court proceedings, cutting off judges in their autonomy, but it means improving the system, and the system does not work well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53549	The answer to the replica? There isn't. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned once again the vacacio legions so you admitted it wasn't a confession, but the findings I apologize for, you realized it would be very short. That he actually shrinks from hour to hour. My view that if in the implementation of any law it takes a reasonable time for what is called vacatio legis, then it is precisely the Law on criminal proceedings because it really refers primarily to human rights, the values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it is extremely important that all those who have to be well adapted from lawyers, judges and, of course, parties to the proceedings, so moreover, as the Constitutional Court clearly determines in its decision the procedures under way that will implement the constitutional law provisions to abolish these provisions and to the procedures that are under way. So vacatio legionis here is extremely important. And one more thing, you mentioned that they have to change what's logical, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the BUSKOK, for example, but also some others, and that these changes are yet to follow. It is my opinion that these amendments to the law had to go in parallel with the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings because by changing one law, others remain as they are, they can significantly disrupt the statistics of what we call a legal state in full terms when it comes to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53551	Do you want to answer the Minister's question? No, I don't. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53552	I agree with the need for vacatio legis. I'm not going to point out some changes to this law that were made in the past in 2009, so it went into effect the next day, and so were the changes to this law, so we can consider it a bad practice but we have this law, so we expected everyone to be ready and to act on it. There will certainly be longer vacacio legions than that one day and will be longer than the 15 days that are common. We'll hurry up with another reading when we see all the remarks we've received so we expect it to be more, so I won't say more but certainly long enough for it to be applied in practice. But I certainly say here and in this law, unfortunately in the past, we had that it had entered into force the next day of some provision. So I say you should be careful with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53553	Thank you very much. I believe that I am obliged to say that the proposal for this law on criminal proceedings of amendments and additions is made and delivered to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure indeed applies and obliges all those who propose, design or perform in the Croatian Parliament. all that is required beyond that is either on the government or the ministry's website, so that they can obtain information on other materials. Next is the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53554	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is certainly a major problem in which today we are living the economic crisis and the fall of standards but perhaps the greater problem is the long-term feeling of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we are not living in a righteous state. For hundreds of times, I've heard that we live in a thief's country, not rarely in those words, in a society where together one lives next to the other, a man who barely survives his work with the fear of losing his job or having already lost his job and who will not be able to train a child and with him in the same bar in the same hall, a man living in the same parking lot who doesn't do anything, and he's got three times five times as many times as this man who works and is afraid to keep his job. It's something that's tragic, it's to the depths of people's relationships, it spoils the state of society, the health of society, and it has long-term serious consequences for the future, for development and even for physical health. And that is why it is important to pay full attention to this issue of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course it's not good to often change laws. This law will change, and the provisions of the old law for the sake of legal certainty will, in one part of the transitional and final provisions for the start-up of proceedings, apply so that we will have two procedures of two types of procedure that are parallelly conducted, and because of frequent amendments to our laws sometimes there are three. According to three different techniques, procedures are conducted because we have changed the law three times or more, which of course makes it difficult for the judiciary to work, makes it difficult for citizens to find out and is certainly not part of some kind of judicial transparency that would also have to exist. But this law is changed on the basis of external circumstances, based on more force because of the Constitutional Court's decision, and before it has changed to comply with EU directives, but certainly in this House, culture must be created that it is common to amend any law, and perhaps especially to judicial laws that it is bad work for those who do so. If it could be limited that in one term the law can be changed once and goodbye. With us laws sometimes change five or more times in one term, which is absolutely bad. If the law is not much better than the one that exists, leave the one that exists because life will create some conditions for its implementation, not introduce a new law that changes again. Both this practice and this consciousness in our Parliament and in our society should develop. As far as the Constitutional Court's decision was concerned, there was no question about her. It is an absurd and unsustainable situation that the most representative body, the most political body of this country, adopts a law and then changes it in such a drastic way and in conditions where they are not indisputable experts with undeniable judicial experience and without any connection with politics. We know how they change, how the judges of the constitutional court are elected. These should be people who are above all professional and political in terms of independence but we know that they are not and we give them such a strong instrument. Something's wrong. Will this be an opportunity for the Constitutional Court's powers to be reconsidered? Not only that, this court has been meddling in direct court proceedings lately, which is not his job. He orders the Assembly Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to do what to do. Which is also a bit of a mixed relationship between jurisdiction and political delegation. That's what a constitutional court does. And this absurd, impossible, illogical situation that we are in is likely to encourage our political public and the professional public to reconsider this unsustainable situation. As for the decision, the very contents of these laws. Of course, it can be debated whether the law in a technical sense changes in the right way, whether it's a new law or whether it's an old law, whether dynamics could have been better, whether participation could have been stronger. Of course, that's something we can discuss. But this law, unlike most of our actions, our laws and judicial proceedings and judges, is also trying to determine a single line to be followed. It is easy to represent the principle of efficiency on the one hand and on the other hand to protect the rights of the individual. Well, how do you like it? And that's what our wise men often do. These two principles are in contrast with the legislator and, of course, the one implementing the law should set a line which is an optimal line of protection of both principles and these lines are strictly adhered to. And don't be on... Positions and then in space there's all kinds of stuff going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because space, therefore, is not strictly defined. And this law is trying to protect an individual. Therefore, protecting against illegal prosecution, informing the defendants and seeing the file which can be counterproductive to the effectiveness of the proceedings but at the same time instructs the attorney general that he must press charges or dismiss criminal charges for 6 months. What the state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia have done so far may have been necessary. Justice by definition must be blind, blind justice of course does not see anything. A rope in a space that can no longer come out. Perhaps the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia should have calculated for any effectiveness at all with the time of the indictment. Because if they had picked it up too soon, it would have been ruined, and there would have been nothing of it. But I hope that our judicial system and all our other subsystems or systems that follow it, monitor it, control it to that extent that we built this right of the state's attorney no longer exists. This will certainly affect that some actions will not be well prepared and may result in a fall. But I think it's past the time of professional wider social calculations whether or not they're going to press charges. I think that society and the basis of these documents of accession that have significantly affected our judicial system and the overall capacity of society is such that state lawyers are able to calculate when they're going to press charges and keep charges, criminal charges in drawers, creating some kind of legal uncertainty for people who are accused and they are. And it's the same protection of individuals, you can't keep someone in a position to investigate for years that he's constantly in danger of being charged and then when it's raised, it can often be interpreted as politically conditioned because elections are coming, because he lost his patron, etc. Something like that must not happen in my opinion. And that's why I support both of them. And this one to protect the defendants to some extent but also to avoid delaying proceedings by state lawyers and, of course, other court cases, which I will not talk about here. I am particularly in favour of confiscation of property benefits acquired by criminal acts. And there's an absurd situation. He steals someone 5 million kuna and he spends a year in prison, which means his monthly salary is $400,000, which is fine, he's an honest man, he's got property, he's got a house, look at the pictures that appear in the papers today. It's something that's absolutely inadmissible. If the court has found responsibility and we trust the court because we have to trust him because there is no other court over the court, then that court ruling must have a conjecture. Consequence must be just, strict, very strict and, if necessary, cruel. Because such a situation where someone is accused and convicted, apparently, therefore there is no dispute even in the fact that the judgment is correct whether, based on law and valid, not only formally but also really valid and this man remains not only a respected citizen but lives five times or ten times or 100 times better than the other citizens live. And it's that unhealthy situation that destroys the foundations on which society should rest. So I strongly support, therefore, not strictly but strongly support the confiscation of the property benefit acquired by criminal acts. Because of these things that I've been talking about, of course, and because of a number of others that I haven't talked about, and because of some in my opinion, in our opinion, less important but not minor changes, such as the distinction between a shortened and a regular procedure where the regular was 8% and a reduced 92%, which is once again an absurd situation. There can't be anything that's extraordinary more common than what's regular. It's like our provisions in the law, extremely of this provision, so it's extremely true that it appears as a rule in our actions, in interpreting legal acts, not only of the law, but of what is regularly becoming extraordinary, which is of course a fundamental will play out, but no one is responsible. It's the way we often operate as well as, of course, delivering the indictment to the accused council and not to the judge of the investigator because of the possibility of the prosecution being jammed in that area. This is therefore a broader insight which, in our opinion, will enable processing, therefore not arbitrarily suspending the proceedings and, of course, some protection of the defendants. For all these reasons, and especially because of the fact that it is the first reading, the willingness of the ministry and the minister to accept suggestions from both this parliamentary debate and the wider public debate that is under way and will continue, the club representative of the HNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53555	I thank the esteemed Jose Radosh. I call upon the esteemed Jadranka Kosor to state the position of her club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I am very glad that this debate on changes and additions to such an important document as the CAP flows into a calm atmosphere and more at a professional level seems to me and I think it's very good and it should always be. Of course, I will ask, since the Constitutional Court and Mr. Minister of our remarks are somehow not to take it personally but as our wish to help in the end of these amendments be good, changes to the CAP, so if the Constitutional Court had made its decision that it had annulled 43 articles in July 2012. It was certainly enough time to organise this debate before today on October 22, 2013 and it would be important that we had, perhaps, because it was a law that really affected the scalpel with human rights and I agree with all those who said we should do everything to make those who are guilty, but also those who are innocent of being free of blame. So the law goes into human and fundamental human rights with a scalpel. It would have been good if we had organized some thematic session just about that law. It's a practice we can introduce but we haven't introduced it yet. The fact that 250 of the 569 articles of the CAP are changing clearly says that it would be better, much better today or before, probably before summer, if it were possible for a completely new proposal from the CAP. Because when you change almost half of the articles of such an important law, no matter how high these changes are, it's as if you're pulling bricks out of a building that's been built long ago and whatever it is you're making up for, it's always a possibility and it's a great opportunity to jeopardize the building's static. So I propose immediately that the ministry, and probably considering this, be prepared for a truly complete CAP, open up enough time and space for us to discuss this and that, of course, all constitutional experts, known experts in the Republic of Croatia, be involved in this debate very actively. Some were invited to give their opinions to the Constitutional Court. As we can see from the reasons, some have responded, some have not, but it is important to give this new law a chance to all leading, repeat, constitutional experts in the Republic of Croatia. However, I, colleagues and colleagues, will open here another question that seems particularly important to me since on such an important law, the Constitutional Court gives its opinion. I've printed it so that you can see, so this is the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish articles, 43 of this law. As possible, how this happened to all of us that as many as 43 articles of the Criminal Procedure Act would not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so with 17 articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. How could this happen to us, given the procedure for the adoption of the laws of working groups that first draft the law, then large procedures in the ministry or ministries. It is a principle issue for all of us and for the future because it is not the first time that the Constitutional Court has abolished the provisions of the law and it is extremely important laws. As I mentioned earlier in the replica, the repealed provisions of this law, namely the amended law, by the very fact that the Constitutional Court abolishes certain articles, will apply immediately to ongoing procedures. And as the Constitutional Court says in its reasoning, they have changed it or not now, they will, if I understand correctly, enter into force automatically on 16 December 2013. So, if we didn't have this debate here today, the Constitutional Court's decision to cancel these articles would come into effect in December of this year. So how is it possible to pass a whole process, to end this process. And in the end of the Office of Law in the Government or Government, no matter what government. I'm talking about us who made decisions and who we decide, who we make decisions. Well, then, in the House, all the important committees for both the legislation and the judiciary, I suppose, and then in those times, and the Constitution Committee and other interested bodies and plenary sessions. And in the last session of the Parliament, there were excellent lawyers, and how can that happen to us then? I will therefore propose when we adopt the law in the final form, so when there is a second reading of the law that the Parliament commits some conclusion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the competent ministry, that when the new Criminal Procedure Act is passed, the validity of the evidence of being called into the Working Group, I repeat from a moment before all Constitutional and Legal Experts and Knowers who should be involved in order not to adopt one law again – the Law on Criminal Procedure or Criminal Law, or I will not now refer to all the laws of which the Constitutional Court abolishes and then one day the Constitutional Court says that a large part of the provisions concerning this case are very much the lives of people but also the lives of the community and life of the state are not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So they're completely against constitutionals. About some specific clues, so I was expecting a whole new law but also some institutes. First of all, goodbyes. So I agree that the verdicts cannot be based on forgiveness. About the seized property, the minister also noted that the law on confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts would also be amended. I also think that this law should come parallel to this debate and that, with the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, we should have discussed these days both then and this and the Law on State's Attorneyy, on USKOK and all other laws which must be logically brought into line with the amended CAP. As for defenders under official duty, it's a good provision and it's a good decision and it's a good direction to control property for 10 years, because of course all those who stole are prone to other and cheating. So, he's robbing himself and I think it's the main message and it has to be the main message. Robbery, theft must never be paid in any way or way. Because it's those who tend to steal, especially when it comes to robbing the state that they're prone to cheating. And that makes sense. As for cross-examination, I also think that in this sense it is going in the right direction, because as the judge minister said again ultimately dictates in the record. And what did we get? We've received an extension of the main debate. Extraordinary mitigation. Now, I have doubts about the possibility, so what it says is the possibility of an extraordinary relief of punishment if new circumstances arise. The new environment can certainly be a disease, and I see the possibility of abuse. So calling on various types of mental illness that very difficult ministers can ultimately prove, yes. I mean, it's the easiest thing to always refer to some kind of heavy detachment. Not now. Of course, I'm very careful not to insult people who are really sick in any way. So by the second reading, I think we should take care of that, too. As far as domestic violence is concerned, I am not sure that taking it, therefore, if the party in the proceedings, then the one who has been damaged will give up the testimony that its previous testimony is certainly taken into account. I'm afraid, given the outcome of the process, that, in the final judgment, this often-damaged party can lead the victim into a far more unfavourable position. Namely, I think we should do a lot more in the education of judges who judge in such proceedings, because I personally saw several convictions regarding family violence. I'm going to quote one of you about the rape of a marriage. So, a lady who's had a hard time suffering for 15 years whose husband didn't even allow her to go to the dentist at the time of pregnancy. She's almost out of one tooth. Her husband told her if there was any need, I'd give you my tooth and eat it with it. So he threatened her in the most terrible ways, humiliated her. And when she finally escaped and went to the shelter for the victims of domestic violence, she filed a report, including the rape of a marriage. But then, it was a long-standing abuse. The verdict was terrifying. So the verdict made it clear that she had not proven her rape in marriage because she had not brought any witnesses to testify. So I don't think there's much to explain. Therefore, the case law should be brought into line with what the legislator is up to. Judges should be further educated because domestic violence is a terrible phenomenon that must not remain behind four walls and domestic violence must be socially condemned, but when it comes to concrete perpetrators, they must be punished. And in the end, once again, of course, the main question that we have to deal with and through these changes, so the question that we always have to ask ourselves, have we done enough for all those who are guilty to really answer, and all those who are innocent to be absolutely and completely protected? Even from a public statement leak. And finally, the question of Mr. Minister is certainly and in this context, since we are informed through the media that one member of the State Judicial Council that a case has been initiated against one member of the State Judiciary Council as possible, at least my information suggests that he is still a member of the State Judiciary Council and does the Ministry of Intelligence, i.e. who has at all, and how can we tolerate it to change the composition of the State Judiciary Council? Because it is also if someone who decides on judges in the Republic of Croatia, and himself, against him, is a procedure initiated, and not for a small and negligible crime, how is it possible for him who decides to continue to be a member of that important body? We will support these amendments and additions to the law in the first reading, but if they do not comply with all the remarks we have made in the final or second reading, they will not receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53557	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas first. The first one will be presented by respected counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kosor, you mentioned in your statement the word robbery, robbery of state property. As far as I'm aware of in those '90s and early years, half this decade's word of robbery has been thrown out of the vocabulary legal in our laws. Although Mrs. Šime Krasic's State Audit made it clear in her reports annually that it was a case of conversion and privatisation of robbery. But it got some other name and actually the word robbery was thrown out, and they were practically legal robberies in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53559	Another replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53560	Thank you. You, Mrs. Kosor, spoke of this one difficult case of domestic violence, have potentiated the question of education of actually judges and people working in the judiciary. I would actually agree with you here because we have seen that the budget of courts, which is totaling about 1.2 billion kunas of state attorneys, is around 400 million kunas here cumulatively and amounts spent on education, education and judges and state lawyers are measured in tens of thousands of kunas. And unlike the profession in which I work where, after the completion of the 6-year college and the specialization and subspecialization that lasts for years, you have both licensing and relicence and education obligations, you today in the Croatian judiciary and in the judiciary and in the state's attorney's office actually have minimal minor separations for both education and education. You have no obligation to license, no obligation to make professional progress, no support of the system, let's say to certain people in the judiciary or in the State's attorney's office that the system pays them, for example, a doctorate. We have a very small share of people with PhDs in our judiciary. Nor is it some topic that is particularly interesting to the judiciary, we have a very small production, say science in the Croatian judiciary outside the university area. So, very little participation. We have very little support for the system, let's say, people who work in this system go to some courses, and about some form of licensing or pressure on these people to further education and further develop there's no speech at all. I think the overall idea that justice is the only thing that needs to be done in science is by those who work in colleges. I think it's a totally wrong idea. Because we saw from the example that some systems spend a very large amount of resources on education and in the judiciary these funds are really minor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53561	Justice Minister Orsat Milenic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53562	Thank you very much. Just a look at a few things that have been said so far. So, as far as privileged testimony is concerned, so this example that you mentioned, I can't, of course, set a concrete example, but I'm going to say why we think the solution that we've offered is good. First, it comes directly from the Council of Europe Convention to prevent the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, so there is explicitly proposing such a solution that does not bind us but we have accepted it. So, it is the result of one development and consideration of this topic not only in the Republic of Croatia but I say at the level of the Council of Europe. Of course there will never be, unfortunately, an ideal situation. The ideal situation requires more financial resources, demands the distance of abusers from home at the moment. There are a whole series of solutions to which we are going and we have a better situation now than we had, but it doesn't satisfy. But here we are talking about a situation where you have someone who doesn't have to show because he has privileges, he has grace. But you decide at that moment after the act is done to say what happened. Unfortunately, too often later, because of the pressure, that because of the overall social situation, the victim says no, he withdraws his testimony. We can't continue the procedure, actually, because most of the time it's one piece of evidence, and then we're in a situation where there's a tragedy. There's been a tragedy that next time something worse might happen and there's no more testimony, so we suggested this solution. Extraordinary mitigation, it is intended as a court case, so two-degree. It includes a state lawyer, of course, that abuse comes down to a minimum, and now these are circumstances that the court will consider. So if there's... abuse can be now as in the future, nothing changes with this. We had this extraordinary legal drug until 2008. very richly built court practice and we had no practical indications that there would be abuse. There's art, there's always a second degree so we don't expect any abuses. As far as speech is concerned, constitutionality has been discussed in principle and how it is possible that the Constitutional Court has established 43 provisions. Of course it's possible, and it's always going to happen, and let's not have the illusion that it's not going to happen. If that didn't happen, there should be no constitutional court, so that's his function. There are some countries here now I will not enter into a wider debate, which they have and the priorities of establishing constitutionality means before the law comes into force on the basis of... but we have a system that we have. We of course have to do everything the best we can using constitutionally... as you know and they're sometimes divided or will tell you that something is black, someone will think it's white. And you, when you accept one again, can't be sure that the Constitutional Court won't judge something third or one of those two. So we should always take as many opinions as possible by conscience but that is something that has happened in the past and will happen. It's not good when it happens, especially it's not good with these laws that enter into fundamental human rights and freedoms, but I say it's one process of the creation and assessment of the constitutionality of the law. So you asked her again, she's not in the context of the subject, but maybe because it's also a question of DSV or ingenuity. We generally declared independence at one point and put it above all else. We've forgotten the principle of responsibility, so we've made constitutional solutions, and it's a simple system that we've sparked to ourselves, and now we have to live in it. The Ministry has no jurisdiction over the DSV except that they're in the same space where we are and that's where we end up. We don't have any interventions here, such systems are created and it will thus exist until eventually some changes but it is now as it is. Education, it's incorrect that it's tens of thousands of kunas because you need to take one independent body again, that's what we did, the Judicial Academy that has a budget of 7.8 million, I don't know how much it's going to be for next year, which is just designed for education just as well as the State School for Judges and State Lawyers that everyone has to go through to get into the system at all. So it's not about dozens but it's about over ten million kunas, exactly certain means for that plus these extra ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53563	Please, we have two replicas for this exhibit. First respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53564	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister around the victims who change their position in the process of making it so simple, they do it when it comes to domestic violence. They always do it because they are afraid, because they fear the consequences of their testimony because on the other hand they don't feel enough protection from all of us, so society as a whole, and then there's no justice, and that's one reason. As far as DSV is concerned, of course I know what your legal options are, but I'm sure you agree, and we all agree that it's a terrible bad message. So we have to change something, then we have to change, which, the laws that make it impossible for us to react in these cases when a member of the State Judiciary Council who decides on judges is alone under the law or the judiciary, is being initiated and will probably, of course, not prejudge, but it's probably not going to come out uncircumcised. Thus, by the end of the sentence, such a person should certainly prejudge the fundamental constitutional principle or the presummation of innocence but should not decide on judges in the Republic of Croatia until the end of the procedure. And that's something I suggest you think about seeing what and how to do. And just so there's no confusion since I mentioned a letter earlier about my club's position, I have to say that I mentioned the principle question about how it usually happens to us. I must say, for the sake of the public, in no way in this statement, by saying what happened to us in the past, how it is possible that what is happening to us today that the Constitutional Court is tearing down some provisions for us, I didn't mean then the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution of Mr. Vladimir Seks. So if he feels hit, I apologize to him on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53565	The replica matches Minister Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53566	I absolutely agree that in the case of victims of domestic violence means not only a legislative arrangement but the practice of doing so is necessary and raising awareness of it. We do this as much as possible through education, through certain procedural rules and, of course, for every perpetrator of the crime, the impact on witnesses is something he tries to achieve very often, and we as a system are tasked with dissuading him and disabling him. So this, too, is what we consider repentance or effort in this direction. What you said about DSV, of course, is that I expect if we go out with a bill that you'll realize that it might be a destabilision of the system but that something needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53567	Another replica is a colleague of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to say the same few words about the domestic violence that you've been talking about, Mr. Minister, and it's certainly important to act in practice because unfortunately, many times the unwanted and tragic consequences happen. In this regard I believe that they are particularly in a difficult position for women and families and mothers in rural areas. And we have under these circumstances made in our county a Koprivnica-Crisis project of a safe house which unfortunately in the law is not recognized here and is now happening what is happening. It's a small environment where everyone knows where what's going on. And surely the consequences are greater. And so, in the rural area, they're cut off. But in that sense, I repeat again, Mr. Minister, no matter what law you have called upon. So the one from the 2010 suspension of the land-booking department, you're putting it in shape first and you're three months away. You promised better, you promised, you changed so much of that... God knows how many laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do better and do not work, in an unequal position to bring these farmers, peasants, citizens of Đurđevacska Podravina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53569	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB, respected counterpart Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm not a lawyer and I'm not a great lawyer in particular, but I can hear the voice of a people who live like someone said in an infirmity to injustice. And he complains about it all the time. What is fundamental in these blasphemy, in these rumours, starting with all the places of public and unpublic is that citizens don't expect so much from the judiciary in terms of just punishment for prison, therefore by repressive means, but first of all, the return of alienated money and the property benefits that it has created, by these acts to say to the ugly, these acts of theft, corruption, bribery and everything else. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect first and foremost. Mostly in the era of this recession, the lack of property, the budget deficit when threatened by cutting wages and cutting off all other social benefits. According to some inscriptions in foreign media, above all, which have passed on and some of our media from the Republic of Croatia has been estranged for the past 8.9 years, so to speak in other words although the word in the judiciary has been banned for nearly 2 decades has been estranged about a billion dollars. And now according to the DORH report and some statements by the state's attorney, it is said that the confiscation of property benefit to such a extent has been taken away from the property benefit of those who have been convicted, so where the trial is completed and where the verdict is a power of some 230 million kuna, which is about 30 million euros. And where's a billion dollars, that's what citizens are wondering, that's what they're interested in. And then says the minister insights the property status, yes, and as soon as possible. And put so-called. Then when someone is released and at an early stage, they can return to him. If it is decided then clearly that what is the verdict and we see a farce, I would say from the trial we are following on the media, on our electronic and other media where man has a 10m-euro house worth watches or pictures of 150 thousand euros, which is paid, which could be paid so much by the citizens. How much does that have to be paid to make it happen? What kind of pay or don't I know what to buy a blinded BMW of four million and 300 thousand kuna? Whoever gave it away and why he gave it away, that's what the citizens are wondering. You know the gentleman who mumbles here. So this legal proposal. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act is in line with the legislation of the European Union and a declaration of its compliance with the legal property of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe is attached. 488 also bears the E. However, as well as bearing the E. mark, this could have been brought into line before. Why are we now two years after this, the authorities of this Kukuriku coalition or almost half a year after we join the European Union harmonising Croatia's acquis with the acquis of the European Union and we joined the European Union first and we had pre-accession negotiations? So why haven't we applied it before? I'd rather say, given the term of putting this law on the agenda, that this is some sort of appropriate legal proposal. Why do I say "appropriate"? Well, because it is spiced just by the latest DORH actions in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, HAC and elsewhere. And somehow there's always a DORH report behind this, always like that. We had such an action by the doctor, the deceased, the rest of his soul, Dr. Simic, where and for the first time one doctor was shown in handcuffs being taken into prison for not knowing what work, and you yourself know what that height was, to say insignificant to what some others had robbed in this country. Well, then there was an index affair, again in front of the state's attorney's office report. And here I would like to throw a tendon on, in this legislative proposal precisely on those six months that the ministry has, therefore, made these Amendments and the additions of the Criminal Procedure Act to the DORH for the initiation of such an indictment or an acquittal decision. Amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act say they need to achieve two goals. One principle of efficiency or efficiency would be some kind of synonym. So I say no guilty one, says one colleague here, doesn't run away. I wish one or two would run away, but there's a lot more running away, and there's gonna be a lot more of them running away. It is difficult to find a country where this principle of efficiency and efficiency would be fully applied and applied so that there are no elements of corruption, bribery and robbery of state property, above all. And the second is the protection of individuals' rights. Then there is also the 43 amendments that the Constitutional Court has imposed on the basis of the 2008 legal solution where some changes have been made, but this new law that has, amends and supplements 552 articles on 250 pages of this material is indeed becoming, I would say, a new law, so to speak. Perhaps it would be good if we had made the entire CAP a new one and put it on the agenda here for all of us to have it, because really this material is very extensive, extensive and difficult to discuss in 15 minutes. What about the fact that now in the Republic of Croatia we are based on the adoption of these amendments and we will have three types of defendants? One will be prosecuted or tried under that old law, so that there has been a report of criminal offences, one under this law that exists and the third under this new amended law. So there will be three types of defendants, three kinds of processing and many, starting with lawyers and further saying that they will find it very difficult to cope with these gaps. So three types of the CAP, three types of convicts, three kinds of convictions and everything else that has taken place with the changes, so the fifth change of the CAP is under way and one is emerging, so I won't say mess, but the question is actually how it's going to work in the future. We are witnessing one to say a bit of spectacular action that is expanding, starting with money laundering. I have said here before in my discussions that Croatia is not the largest, it is the second in a row saying statistics, washing machines of money in Europe. When I said that, then by ruling here in the previous term, they were very angry with me, and if I say that they said, and I have no direct information about it, but according to media reports, some others are used to the media, it is actually said that in Croatia the government is political kleptocracy. It's a single syntagma very, very good. Political kleptocration. Starting with bribery, corruption, and up to that employment base of money or party belongings. And it's so 22 years in the Republic of Croatia. Let him get mad whoever he wants. Let him be angry with whoever he wants, but this syntagma is very good. And it's very difficult for the judiciary, no matter what you react because whoever chooses a state attorney, here in the Croatian Parliament, and here in front of the State's Attorney's Office report in the Republic of Croatia, I'm just saying I'm talking about an affair where I said in an interview when a domestic cat catches a mouse then bring it to its boss to show it and boast that he caught a mouse. But how many cases of criminal, Mr. Minister, I'm not going to tell you how much it may lie in my city, how many cases lie and wait in the drawers of the State's Attorney's Office, with those who are suspects not knowing when it will end and whether it will start, but also the victims are not informed, but they have to ask questions through the official parliament of the Republic of Croatia, but who, by asking what's wrong with the criminal act or criminal procedure, by persecuting it and then can get it, may I get an answer. So this 6-month rule on the State's Attorney's Office's conduct is excellent and should be accepted. Other specifics in this legislative proposal are further reading and it would be good to include all relevant institutions in the judiciary, starting with the Croatian Bar and all others in order to get some changes by the second reading. For now, until these changes come and until a wider debate is held, the HDSB club would be abstentioned, therefore neither against nor against. We welcome many measures, starting with reconnaissance and property status, up to this 6-month deadline for the prosecution, but even in some paragraphs, I think you can fix it. And once again, I stress that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect the efficiency of the State's attorneys and attorneys much more to the extent that I said in my first sentence, which is the return of the property benefit that has been obtained in an illegal manner. It is only then that we can expect that citizens will not feel powerless in injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53571	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First up, dear colleague of Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53572	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic, for saying among other things that lawyers will find it very difficult to cope with these amendments and amendments to the law. I would just like to remind you that the assessment of the constitutionality of the Criminal Procedure Act was filed mainly by lawyers, five of them. Well, I'm not gonna tell them, of course I wouldn't advertise them here in the assembly. So, right on their request, a constitutional court procedure has been initiated for the assessment of constitutionality, so I think as far as they're concerned, they'll do well. Some questions related to vacatio legis are raised primarily on the work of courts and the quality of the work of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53573	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53574	And my colleague Kosor, five lawyers, has, therefore, expressed disagreement with this legal proposal. But here's to say there are 80 private lawyers in Slavonski Brod. I don't know in Zagreb, but maybe eight hundred, I don't know how many. So the group of five has expressed, and we'll see how the Constitutional Court evaluates theirs. I wouldn't go into the Constitutional Court's evaluation of their performances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53575	We move on to another replica, dear colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53576	Thank you. Here's your colleague talking about it, affirmatively, about that six-month term for the prosecution of which the DORH is bound. And really, on the civic side, it would be really good if the DORH could file valid charges in three months. But what's the problem? The problem is in the following, the problem is in the collected evidence very often. And why is that a problem? Well, we are witnessing that the top PN USKOK employees have been arrested for co-operation with criminals, that the heads of intelligence have fallen for theft, that the chiefs of the county police department have been suspended and criminal charges for corruption. So, the leaders of the police intelligence apparatus, and in the months preceding this, they fell because of co-operation with organised crime. The bearers of material collection, reconnaissance, and all that was actually delivered or duped to the State Attorney's office by many procedures. I don't mean to exculpate the State's Attorney's Office. But in many cases, the State Attorney's Office was in a situation that it had to do virtually over and over again because the corrupt officials in both the police and the PN USKOK and the intelligence services were actually hitting on a whole series of materials. And it can actually happen that our good wishes and question is whether this system has been cleansed. That's a big question. And the reverse situation can be put in place, that it's our good desire to reduce the charges to six months as our good wishes. In fact, we're in a situation where the mass of the defendant's proposals isn't raised at all and it's the opposite of our wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53577	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53578	A fellow Djurovic, said the late Pope Praised Jesus and the Mafia, so I would answer you in short but here to expand my answer, the replica. In 2011, it was written that one former prime minister turned Croatia into a mafia state. So it's all intertwined, the octopus has its legs, the arms have smaller arms, etc. And that's how it works exactly how you described it in those instances, institutions that should keep a secret. And you see that some newspapers before they announce that someone's been arrested, rather than almost DORH coming out on the field or BREAK. So what I said in Croatia is in power, we're talking about these 20 years of independence, crawling authoritarian kleptocracy. You've only confirmed with your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53579	Minister Orsat Milenic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53580	Thank you very much. I therefore thank you for the open question and for the transitional and final provisions, which laws will be parallel in force and will not apply. That's certainly one important question we've been thinking about. Unfortunately, according to the current arrangement until we change it, it is indeed happening that several legal solutions are being applied parallelly, which is also contrary to some principles when it comes to procedural law. It's different materially. Here if you look at the Transitional and Final Provisions we very precisely prescribe, in fact that it will not happen again. So we're doing it the opposite of what's now. Of course, it is good to talk about it because it is very often the sensitive provisions of laws that require discussion and which each remark is more than welcome because it is always possible to fix the text. As far as the public debate is concerned, I'm talking about it. So, in July, it was delivered to all the county courts, delivered to the Supreme Court, delivered to the State's Attorney's Office, delivered to all departments of the Faculty of Law. It means Osijek and Zagreb and Split and Rijeka. It was delivered to all the authorities of the state administration. It was delivered to all the occupiers, meaning the occupier for children, etc. It was delivered to the Attorney's Office. I must have forgotten someone now, but it's been delivered to all those addresses. All those addresses, some of them answered, some of them didn't. But they were also delivered the text of the law, and this consolidated text was delivered, which I said we did even though we didn't have an obligation to do because it's just easier for people to get along. The observations are all uncommunicated. We've held a meeting with them again, and we're in regular contact. We took the good part, we didn't take the good part. We'll try to give that material to see what we are, what we're not. So the public debate was held. Of course, now that we get back from the Croatian Parliament some concrete remarks that we want to actually work on concrete things we will also consider them. I expect in two, three weeks that it will be the next phase of the law, in which we will consider them further. But I'm saying, absolutely everything we've got we've tried to analyze, see what can be built in, which means we accept, which we don't accept. What we don't accept is why we didn't do it. But I repeat, I thank you for all the remarks we all welcome, but we are together to make as good a law as possible. And maybe one more thing is about this law. No, believe me, I have contacted many colleagues, not many of them in Europe and in official and unofficial formats and surely Croatia by legal order and by degree of protection of rights, by the degree of respect for the law is not at the bottom of the European law, it is in the middle of the worst case scenario, in the worst case scenario. I can't agree that we'd be the country as we're told kleptocracies etc. Because that's not what we are. There are incidents everywhere and there will always be. That's why we're making regulations, which is why we have a repressive apparatus to fight them. Of course, it's our job to do everything we can to prevent you, because if something comes to your senses, then you can't fight with a repressive machine anymore, but that's why you have to work on prevention. But it is certain that with all the changes that we have made in the system and with what we are doing and what we are going to do, you can see that we have not stopped after entering the EU, but we are moving on. Another review, some directives were passed in 2012, listed, so we couldn't get in line before we got in. That's why it's always going to be brought in. It's always going to be a synchronization. So we're not, let's not ourselves, we have problems but others have many and bigger ones than us. It's up to us to wear, to give strong mechanisms for it, to all work on it, but let's not put ourselves where we don't belong. And we don't belong in the end and we're not the worst, though. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53581	We're moving on to replicas. First Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53582	Thank you. Well, Mr. Minister, when it comes to legal certainty and the effectiveness of the judiciary, it would be good if you, based on your own impression, tried any indicator that was any of the values made in the EU where the Republic of Croatia would be located somewhere in the middle of any statistical measurement that has been made. And it's my impression, now that we're talking about impressions, that we're somewhere very much at the bottom and legal certainty and the functioning of the rule of law and the efficiency of justice. And my impression, here is when we talk about impressions, given that you have expressed your impression and your colleagues, my impression and the impression of my colleagues is that the Croatian judiciary is actually cancer of the early Croatian society and that the Croatian judiciary, whether because of the impulse of politics or despite this impulse of politics, did not actually do in the past years what was the task of this Croatian judiciary and regardless of the legal framework that existed, did not give that pain to the development of Croatian society as Croatian citizens expected of it. And it's not a question of legitimacy but it's a matter of simple functioning of the system and legislation can be the best in the world but it won't change the fact that the system works well enough or doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53583	The replica matches Minister Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53584	Thank you very much. I agree that it's not a legitimate thing, but actually in implementation, implementation, and that even a good law does not mean anything if we don't implement it properly. As for some of our positions at EU level, there is an initiative to introduce so-called. the core boards, so to introduce one scale where countries are in this particular judicial aspect and then they would be measured according to different parameters. However, when it comes to doing so, it is evident that there is such a difference that you cannot even agree on parameters that would be valid everywhere. For example, we have standards, framework criteria for the work of courts and judges which most European countries do not have. So, you're here once, you can't compare it to something. However, what you said is true, we must have the perception that is ruling with us, but it is wrong in my court to direct it exclusively to the judiciary. Justice can't be better or worse than the rest of society, it just fits into it. Unfortunately, I'd very much like that and it should be but what it is, you know, every segment has its good and bad properties, and on us it's also through this, so through legislation that's what we can do as executive power. I can't interfere in, and I can't interfere in concrete procedures, so what's our weapon is legislation and education which you also said and do as much on it as possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53585	The Republic will now be presented by the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53586	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Milenić's. You've misrepresented me. I was saying that according to some indicators, and I can bring you the data to make sure that Croatia is, by size, a machine for money laundering elsewhere in Europe. Whatever good legislation, good, let's say good, mediocre in Europe, judicial system and everything else, it's a huge personal wealth of individuals who can't justify it with their salaries. It is bribery, commission and placement of party supporters, friends and it has become a way of life in Croatia. It's simply already the citizens completely absorbed almost that they live that life together with the judiciary as you say they are. That's the perception of the public, right? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53587	And a third replica, respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53588	Thank you. Well, here's the minister. I'm gonna use this for your public debate and that you're open to all suggestions and suggestions, so I wanted to get an answer from you. As regards Article 93 of the existing 208th Article, the MUP warns that this law has not been declared to lead to certain problems. It's about the fact that a suspect at the scene of an act can only be brought in if he wants to, so it's not forced to be questioned for the longest six hours, that after 6 hours he's free and they ask a question, so what is the paper path from being a suspect at one point until he's blamed at another point. There's only talk here about serious criminal acts, so the suspect can only be forced into prison for more than 10 years, but they also warn that there may be a crime that is easier to commit at that time, and after a few days, it becomes a more effective crime and what now happens to this suspect who was brought into the station but who hasn't said anything in six hours and who had to be released home after 6 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53589	Minister Orsat Milenic answers this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53590	Thank you very much for asking. So it's not about the suspect, it's about the citizens who were found at the scene of the crime. So they're not suspects, they're potential witnesses. And we really believe that someone who was found at the scene as a witness that it is not necessary to bring him in past his will when he can be properly called, a witness, I'm talking about a witness, unless it's particularly serious criminal acts. Also, it shouldn't be kept longer than a minimum, because I repeat, it's not about suspects who have a completely different treatment than witnesses about citizens of all of us who may have seen something that's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53591	We're moving on to an individual debate now. First, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is the risk that I will repeat a lot of what has been said so far, and I must refer to this law because this bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act is extremely important for the improvement of our judicial system, especially in the part where it deals with sanctioning criminal offences. In fact, this legislative proposal should be viewed in some way in unity with what we discussed about a year ago in this House when we resolved in some way the first 17 irregularities pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 19 July 2012. So the very fact that this legislative proposal corrects 26 further irregularities is enough reason to adopt this law here and support the ministry in that it has referred it to the procedure. However, other than those irregularities, which, regardless of the 26 articles, cannot be corrected in a way that only introduces 26 provisions in the law, because they also have consequences for some other articles, this legislative proposal goes far beyond that. He represents one so I wouldn't even say a mini reform.He represents one significant, serious and useful reform of our criminal procedure system. And in that part that may have appeared, I would say the Constitutional Court's decision is visible to the most controversial, which is the protection of the defendant's rights. We are at one point not going to enter into the reasons for this, but we have concluded that the rights of the defendants must be put in another plan and we have to stress that absolutely every perpetrator of the crime must be punished, so whether it means that some innocents in prison are also a real society, and I would add to the way in which this Penal Procedure Act was written, he contributed exclusively to those richer defendants who could afford quality defence, quality lawyers and investigators in collecting evidence. And right here I see one of the most significant benefits of this Bill on Criminal Procedures or Amendments and Supplements Act, which refers to the fact that it is returned to the court to carry out certain evidence it considers necessary, but also to ask questions to witnesses who go outside the party's proposal. We had a paradoxical situation in Croatia. In the criminal proceedings Act, we introduced complete acousticity appropriate to an Anglo-Saxon trial in front of the jury while at the same time leaving the Inquisitor principle in the Law of Criminal Procedure. So in the Law on a criminal procedure relating to civil law, let's say that we left financial relations between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the possibility to implement, determine, propose evidence, while at the same time in a criminal procedure where all the culprits should go to be convicted, and all the innocent freed, we left the finding of the truth only on what the parties suggest. Such a solution is wrong in my court, and that is why we should welcome this return of inquisition to criminal proceedings, and by speaking of inquisition, we are not talking about inquisition, but we are talking about the court's power to propose and carry out certain evidence and to ask the witnesses questions. Therefore, it will no longer be decided only what the parties have proposed, the defendant or the state's attorney, but the court will, if it considers that a particular issue needs to be further clarified, be able to play a role in the conduct of the proceedings. Furthermore, what is particularly important to me and particularly important to me, and although this has been the case I will repeat it is to abolish the division into a regular and shortened procedure. If you have read the law or if you have listened to lectures on the Law on Criminal Procedure at Law Schools, you could not have noticed the process. He represented a kind of ugly duck of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and then when you get to court, when you come into practice, you see that over 90% of all criminal proceedings were conducted according to his norms. I believe this is a solution by which this reduced and regular procedure is integrated into only one criminal procedure well. In my court, too, it will improve certain illogicalities that have become so far in a shortened procedure and I would single out one of them as a problem of the rights or deadlines for making a complaint. Carefully, in the short procedure, the deadline for the appeal was 8 days, which was certainly unbalanced with everything that had been established in the previous shortened procedure regardless of its name. And in this way, both rights and possibilities were violated not only by the defendants, but also by the state's attorney's office to refer in one quality complaint to what was considered wrong in the verdict. Furthermore, what is important to me in this bill is the deadlines for the handling of the State's attorney as a prosecutor, both in terms of time-limits related to criminal charges and the prosecution. It's already been a talk today, but I'm going to point out one more time. With deadlines like this, I think we're gonna avoid the situation that sometimes, and perhaps unwittingly, maybe will deliberately be timed when certain charges will be released to the public to wait, but also to avoid the impression that the state's attorney is doing so. What is more important, however, with such limited deadlines related to some of the state’s attorneys’ actions, the defendants whose current uncertainty, where he had been waiting for months and years for certain actions to be taken against him, would certainly have been uncomfortable. And where the punishment actually started before the crime itself started. Furthermore, other newspapers that need to be highlighted and supported are the issue of recording the defendants' statements, regulating the conditions and ways in which they will end up seeing the case file, etc. I would single out another one here, I wouldn't say the paper of this Law, but one solution that I consider much better than the one so far, and that's an amendment to Article 204(1). The law on criminal proceedings where it will now be clearly and unequivocally prescribed that everyone is obliged to report a criminal offence that is being prosecuted under official duty. Although such a provision has existed more or less so far, it has not been clearly expressed. And I think that in Croatia, especially at the moment at which we are present today, it is necessary to clearly and unequivocally say that everyone is obliged if they find out about the existence of a criminal offence to report it. Because I think in Croatia we have a lot of head-to-sand stuff because everyone pretends they didn't know anything, where they're hiding behind certain thesis like a husband always has to know the last thing. And in fact, they are as much obliged as the police or other bodies if they have information that a criminal offence has been committed to inform the State's Attorney's Office that it would subsequently initiate the proceedings and in case the elements or evidence that it really existed and prosecuted the defendants. However, here is my speech not only in praise, I think that this legal proposal is really necessary until the second reading. And I'm only going to raise one question here that is particularly important to me, which is a matter of rejection of criminal charges on the principle of purpose. I personally believe that here, especially in those situations when it comes to the criminal acts that hurt the injured a lot, so the victim, such as the crime of serious physical injury, would have to have the potential for the injured, so the victim to address the senior state attorney with a complaint in order to request a review of such rejection on the principle of purpose, so I ask that this remark be considered. Let me get this straight. This bill represents a positive step towards... The effectiveness of criminal proceedings and what is important, this legislative proposal does not affect the area of protection of human rights more than it is necessary by the nature of the criminal procedure itself, which is why I believe it is good and that it should certainly be supported and adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53593	We're going to hear another individual debate from our colleague Drazen Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53594	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This... The amendments to the law were of course necessary in view of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which therefore abolished 43 articles of the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The size of the job should certainly be commended by the Justice Department team who made a huge deal, and I'd say good work. I would point out this in particular, given the fact that an opportunity has been taken to make further amendments to the law which are therefore not conditional only on the decision of the Constitutional Court. In particular, I would like to stress the prerogative of the power of a state attorney to take measures to find property acquired by criminal act in order to confiscate the property benefit which is thus acquired by this criminal act. I would certainly agree that there is also a certain concern about this decision in certain circles that could be directly affected by this decision. Certainly further excellent thing is that it is now possible that if it is found out that the property status of the convicts is such that it is able to compensate for the costs of the criminal proceedings, that it can now be effectively charged. I would also agree with the reasons for the amendments concerning... the elements... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] principles in the oral debate, therefore, which is an element... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] on Anglo-Saxon law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in our system obviously the decision doesn't make... but as the judge or judicial professional court has said, there is no need for such a complicated procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this has certainly proved to be more effective and more effective by now. Commendably, it should be expressed by the fact that the right to serve in its own language and letter is extended to the sign language of the deaf and the deaf. As for this mentioned 1928 law, which has now significantly experienced changes and additions to the esteemed representative Kosor, referred to the fact that, of course, a failure was made on... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter what it is, it was passed during the time the representative was in executive power. It should certainly be pointed out that, in my opinion, these mistakes that have been made and have been conditioned by I suppose good intentions. Our transition society was faced with the general belief that certain crimes, certain crimes, were primarily corruptive acts in conversion and privatisation, that they remain unpunished, that they were not punished. The general belief that this is so... is in the frequent repetition of the famous syntagma that has been pitted, it has been pitted. In such circumstances, it was a somewhat understandable tendency, primarily in professional circles, to give more effective instruments for the future to the State's attorney to better and more effectively prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences. ... which sometimes, in legislation, is driven by greater caution towards citizens' rights, has therefore been pushed too far towards strengthening the position of the law enforcement body, which, despite good intentions, could lead to violations of the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens. And that's where it went too far and I personally think it was a necessary correction by the Constitutional Court. I am personally very skeptical, perhaps even too cautious about giving a stronger position to law enforcement authorities than it is the position of citizens for whom there is no matter what the underlying doubt that he has committed a crime. Unfortunately, we do not live in an ideal society in which law enforcement authorities would work exclusively top professionals who act exclusively on top ethical principles. That's what we were talking about in the debate. A few days ago we read about the case that private... confidential official information was provided by authorized officials. Therefore, when it comes to the persecution of perpetrators of criminal acts of opinion, I should always bear in mind that one of the basic principles of criminal proceedings, one of the most valuable in me, of civilization's social achievements, is the principle of presummation of innocence. No one is to blame, of course, until a court case finds him guilty. Too large by moving the slaughterhouses against the aprior protection of citizens' rights to facilitate the position of the law enforcement body. So we are in a situation that an excessive violation of constitutional rights and the freedom of citizens is possible. When we talk about a conflict between... a repressive apparatus and the pursuit of greater protection of freedom and the rights of citizens, I am a supporter of the view that it is better that ten perpetrators of criminal acts be released than that of an innocent person to be convicted. I am a supporter and a stand that it is better that ten perpetrators of a crime... than an innocent person be exposed to measures to restrict and violate his constitutional rights and freedoms. I would therefore particularly welcome the amendments and additions to the laws that go into it in Article 9, that the court and the national authorities participating in the criminal proceedings with equal attention examine and determine the facts which are burdened by the defendants and which are in favour of them, and that the State's Attorney's Office... the police are therefore obliged to collect information on the guilt and the innocence of the defendants. Therefore, the amendments in Article 10 provide greater guarantees for the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms by limiting the possibility of illegal evidence obtained by violation of rights and freedoms being used as evidence in criminal proceedings. Nevertheless, it is still possible for such evidence to be used in the procedure for serious forms of criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the county court, where the interest of criminal prosecution outweighs a violation of law. Personally, given what I was saying, I wouldn't allow such evidence to be used in any procedure at all, let alone criminally. It's my impression that it's a sort of thing to call a license for illegality because if you have such an act and if you're allowed to use such evidence... it's possible, therefore, without any consequences for the outcome of the procedure, to use such evidence. Whether there would later be some disciplinary responsibility or something else, that is another question, but I believe that the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights is above the interest of persecuting the perpetrators of criminal offences. We live in an imperfect society, and protection against corruption as I think it was a war to make most changes to the 2008 CAP provisions, I think it can be prevented by other measures and controls aimed directly at... points. Corruption usually occurs in situations where conflicts of private and public occur. Like that. situations are common, especially in public procurement. Better control of public procurement procedures and contracts which therefore public authorities or companies bodies whose state and units of local self-government have a majority share can be more effective... at preventing corruption than perhaps certain provisions aimed at the general population and which may lead to possible violations of their rights under the Constitution. On the other hand, everyone would welcome the tendency to prevent the situation we've had so far, to keep certain criminal charges unsolved for months and years. Since such cases sometimes involve criminal charges for corrupting acts in a narrow and broader sense, the fact is that criminal charges have not been resolved for a long time, i.e. no investigation or indictment has been filed, nor has the criminal application been dropped certainly a bad picture of the law enforcement authorities and allows for a variety of harmful speculation although in the total number of unsolved offences there is not a large number of those who have been waiting for a long time to resolve. However, such a situation is neither good nor from the position of the image we have of the law enforcement authorities nor from the position of the person against whom the criminal application has been filed because it casts doubt on her who can seriously harm her, and she cannot handle such a burden for a long, long time. Therefore, according to Article 206b, a State lawyer is now required to make a decision on a criminal application within 6 months of the date of registration in the Register of Criminal Reports. As a certain control of that deadline, it is therefore foreseen that a complaint can be brought to the State's attorney for not taking the state's attorney's action. I am impressed, given the practice so far, that these provisions should be further respected. The injured party and the victim often, especially in the acts of corruption, can be represented precisely by persons against whom criminal charges have been filed. It is clear that in such cases we cannot expect a complaint to be filed to speed up the procedure. Therefore, I think that perhaps the solution should be considered if, after the end of the 6 months after the criminal application has been entered, it is considered that the mandated lower state attorney's office must be made clear on the reasons and that even these reasons are publicly available. Besides, I'd like to support this bill, and I'd like to commend the ministry's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53595	Thank you. Two replicas have been reported to this exhibit. The first one will be presented by a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pandek, speaking of the fact that the Constitutional Court has abolished as much as 43, made a decision to abolish 43 articles of this law. I was actually talking about how and what we should do to make it happen to us in the future as little and such cases as possible, that especially with such important laws, in every law, the Constitutional Court if someone submits a request for an assessment of constitutionality as little as possible according to our decisions. Because these are decisions in the finality of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, see also in the term of office of this government which has not yet been completed for two years, the Constitutional Court has reacted as you know and abolished some of the government's decisions or ministries. I've advocated that the more we use in writing the laws of opinion of experts, those who know. Then we will have a larger shield according to the fact that some laws that enter into force starting to apply will be abolished in one part. I, for example, will also mention this Minister of Defence in writing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, whose important provision was abolished in the Constitutional Court relating to the study of children of Croatian defenders, or children of volunteers, killed Croatian defenders, where this possibility of additional quotas has been abolished, etc. So, that's something that we need to talk about openly, and I think that in this political space we need to stay as far away from as possible that what I've been doing is great, but what you're doing is all catastrophic and vice versa, but to the common forces, especially in sensitive laws like the CAP, do everything that we can after no one can break our decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53597	The replica matches the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53598	Thank you. I, in my debate, pointed out that I believe and am, in fact, convinced that the adoption of the Law on Criminal Procedure and even those provisions that were abolished by the Constitutional Court's decision that it was conditioned by good intentions, that it was therefore intended to go on to prevent a general impression in a society that contributed to the atmosphere of insignificantness, that the conduct of criminal acts was particularly those, corrupt crimes, especially those in conversion and privatisation, and that there were no consequences. At that time I remember the opposition in the public was quite great about the adoption of this law and I absolutely agree that it is then and now that you should always listen to the professional public to a greater extent, that public debate should be conducted especially on such important laws which decide on basic human rights and freedoms prescribed by the Constitution. There is a public debate to be held, and I agree with each article, and it is certain that such an act will not come into these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53599	Now let's listen to the replica of counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53600	Dear fellow Pandek, you have quite rightly opened some moral dilemmas in your debate. At least that's how I realized it was your dilemma, and that's when you said one of those often used postcards better be that nine guilty, or guilty women were released as often as we say, and because one innocent is closed. It's always moral, it's very questionable if it's good. As individuals, however, we often act hypocritically. Now I'm talking to you, counting myself. When we seek justice ourselves, we condemn something or someone else we support all the ways of criminal proceedings just to condemn the accused. According to ours, we're already on the assumption that we're bringing a court. But when it comes to us and when we're being investigated, let's say we're being investigated, then we're looking for respect, absolute respect for justice, and we all say the illegally collected fact we're catching up on every straw that's for condemning us as individuals. Let's say if you get notice of some serious crime in an illegal way, and you know it's a criminal often happens in world practice that this criminal is being released. And then I wonder where that interest is not only to the public that is spoken of in this law, but also to the interest of justice. The laws are often written precisely for the legal profession, so lawyers play as dominoes, so they say now we outsmarted this, we outsmarted the state, or we outsmarted our fellow. This is a moral question that you have asked is very important in this Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53601	The replica matches my colleague Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53602	Thank you. Well, I mentioned that one of the basic civilization's achievements is not just about the legal profession respecting the principle of presummation of innocence. So it can't happen that basically the person who, therefore, is the perpetrator of the crime, who we say is guilty, is walking away. He wasn't guilty until we proved it to him. In America, we still have a death sentence. There are numerous, numerous cases where, after the death penalty has been committed, we come to the realization that an innocent person has been executed. That's, of course, a radical example. But my position is also conditioned by law school education in which my professors have always stressed the principle of respect for constitutional rights and freedoms, almost above all, while in public we often tend to ignore this principle of presummation of innocence. In the paper, we have articles in which individuals are already publicly lynched, in which individuals are already publicly convicted. That's not good at all. I would never agree with that. I agree that this attitude may be a personal ethical and moral attitude of a particular person, depending on it itself, but I say this attitude that I have expressed I think is correct through my own and professional and life path I have come to the fact that such an attitude is better that one person, that better that nine persons... but that one should be condemned innocent of being good and upright. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53603	Let us now hear the closing word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53604	Thank you very much. Here I really won't be long. I would like to thank everyone for the remarks that have been made, and we will consider them all and, of course, all those who fit into the concept we will accept. A lot has now been discussed lastly about these serious criminal acts and the justification of the limitations of certain human rights for that. Of course it's always one scale that you put between interests I would say to protect society from the crimes of these particularly difficult and of course protection of fundamental rights and the freedom of individuals. That's why we're through this law, unlike this one, we've been through the catalog of those works. So, what is it? The global trend is both social communities and society feels threatened by these most serious crimes whether terrorism, organised crime, corruption. So it endangers all of us as a society and society feels the need for defence. And the fact is that some of the world's trends are and are always going to make it a little bit of an emphasis on efficiency and a little emphasis on human rights, etc. It's one circle that keeps going, it's always this one scale that weighs a little bit on one side and on the other side. But what we are, then, is not just about these so-called so-called. Evidence, I think, in Article 10, we tried everywhere to set firm rules of the game in evidence stores rather than other restrictions. So if, as a society, we say that, in certain cases, more human rights are allowed for what? Because it's criminal acts that are particularly dangerous, which threaten us, which are also committed by a group of criminals where you need to give the state additional resources to fight it, then we put it in the catalog, so we said exactly what were the works. So we didn't allow free hunting. We've prescribed rules on how to handle these cases and we've provided judicial protection. So that's where we're trying to reach the balance. Of course, in some specific cases, it might be a picture like this or something, but I think when we look at the whole system that we've achieved that balance. Secondly, the debate obviously showed the need for a public debate that was held and I say I will deliver the materials to you on this. Vacatio Legis will be as he is. We have been faced with the choice of a shorter public debate longer vacacio or vice versa, we have decided on a longer public debate and through this vaca legislation. It won't be too short. As I said in this law, we had a 1-day lease of legions, for the entire law to come into force, it was six months. So we certainly won't get out of the boredom of set standards. Should they be better? Of course, we'll raise them the next time we do a new law, and that'll happen sooner or later, that's for sure, so we'll put a longer vacacio legion. But this is what's in front of you right now. I say, the obvious, the remarks so far are very positive. I urge you once again to put all yours in order to just make everyone together so the law is as good as possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53605	Two replicas. First, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53606	Dear Ministers, I wanted to refer to that replica that Nancy Tyrell told you, which is article 93.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53607	Now you can only replicate this final report, not refer to the replica from half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53608	I don't need to, then. I'm replicating Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53609	Yes, then replicate the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53610	It concerns the law, Article 93. Article 93 states "a suspect who has been coerced under paragraph 4 of this article may be withdrawn" and then says "after completion of the notification or at the end of 6 hours from the time of arrival in the police premises he may leave" not a citizen but a suspect. That's paragraph 4, no, not paragraph 5. So this is actually terrible. You and the suspect no longer have the right to call after that to answer for what you suspected. That's what it says, it says in Article 93(4). The person who responded to the call or the suspect who was coerced and refused to give the notice cannot be called again for the same reason. So, someone's suspected of a misdemeanor, they don't want to give a statement, they don't want to give six hours of silence, you send him home, well, don't tell him, and here's a 170 kuna log because we are still you, and he's still a suspect, but you can't anymore, that's that hypocritical justice. What about him? Cops say it's a terrible thing for them. That you won't actually be able to act and you're one of the main instruments that broke out the people who's leading the investigations out of your hands. It's just this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53611	A little lesson from my colleague Vuksic. The minister did not speak at all about the article now, he thanked all who participated in the debate. This is legitimate for you to present but within the framework of a debate that you could apply for and then comment on the law. But you know what a replica is. The replica is opposition or commenting on something that has just been said. Does the minister want to answer this?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53612	I can only briefly, that this is set in accordance with international standards. As far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, and now I've checked the M.O.P. didn't make any official remarks on this provision. Of course, here's what you've brought out. We're going to think about it like everybody else and see what and how we're going to see it. But in principle, of course you have a suspect at one point, you can't force him to testify. So, what you're gonna do with him if he refuses to show you, and you have no reason to arrest him for determining an investigative prison, then you let him go free and there's no need to invite him anymore. I mean, that's one standard that's common and that's pretty much solved right now. Because we have a principle that no one has to show if they don't want to. Other witnesses, witnesses must, than when I'm talking about a suspect. I did when I was responding to what you said was part of the witness part of the suspect, but this is about the suspect. Of course we'll consider it if we can extend it, it's no problem but it's been pretty short so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53613	Second replica of colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53614	Minister, I must now replicate this finality of yours. I thank you for coming today to defend the amendments to the law and teaching you this, please, despite the fact that the MUP did not appear in writing in the working group that worked on these amendments there have been serious discussions about this. I, as Minister of Justice in Good Faith, really ask you once more to study this article once again carefully to talk to people who deal with this work every day and to see what the problems they warn about and to get these problems to the satisfaction of all of us and to get rid of it until the second reading and to the final law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53615	My colleagues Tyrelli gave you the same warning as his colleagues, Vuksic. Now let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53616	Here's what I'm gonna do again. Of course, we will also consider that it is no problem to consider the extended period, etc. Thank you very much for all your remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53617	I'm closing the debate now. I thank Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53618	We are going to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, PZE No. 488. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Please state who's behind this conclusion? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour of, 6 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53619	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of witness protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 484 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53620	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. The Strasbourg Forum is an informal group established with the aim of lobbying and considering issues of common interest for members in the field of internal affairs and providing support to candidate countries for EU accession. The members of the Salzburg Forum are the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Hungarian Republic, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Croatia has participated in the work of the forum in the status of observers since 2006 and has become a full member at the Ministerial Conference of the Salzburg Forum held in the Czech Republic on 24th, 25th of May 2012. In order to improve the cooperation of Member States in the field of witness protection, as well as the implementation of the relevant EU legal framework in this area, the need for the conclusion of a multilateral international contract has been established and an agreement on cooperation in the field of witness protection has been concluded on 24 May 2012. This Agreement will develop and strengthen cooperation in the field of witness protection between the Contracting Parties in accordance with national regulations and international obligations of the parties to the contract. The Agreement also constitutes a element of further promotion and deepening of the relations between the Signatory States. The Act confirming the agreement in question confirms that its provisions would be within the meaning of Article 141(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia entered into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As a result of a joint desire to deepen cooperation between the Member States of the Strasbourg Forum in the field of witness protection, it is considered that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia in ending the internal legal procedure as soon as possible in order to create assumptions that the agreement enters into force in accordance with its provisions and in relation to the Republic of Croatia and is therefore proposed to adopt laws under an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53621	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Sonja König, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53622	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Your Honor, With special investigative measures and taking advantage of the property, witness protection is one of the most important ways to fight crime as we know it. In addition to making it easier to prove and combat crime, witness protection is also the result of the humanisation of criminal law or greater concern for all participants in the process. Almost all countries provide legislation with certain exceptions, a general obligation to testify by which all citizens must testify in criminal proceedings. the reason for this is the importance of witness testimony which, despite the increased importance of other means of determining the facts of the application of modern technologies, represents in a large number of criminal proceedings the basis for which the judgment is based. However, it is important to note that not all witnesses in criminal proceedings are in the same position. Some witnesses may be at risk of life and health. Therefore, the legislator seeks to create a legal framework that will ensure the removal or at least reduce the risk of such endangered witnesses. In Croatia, he also mentioned the assistant, i.e. Deputy Minister, in force of the Witness Protection Act, which regulates the conditions and procedures for providing protection and assistance to endangered and close persons. The first witness protection programmes of the Republic of Croatia began in 2005 when a police protection unit was formed within the framework of the criminal police administration as well as a committee that makes decisions on the inclusion of persons in the programme and on the termination of the witness protection programme. That the Croatian model is good also confirms the fact that through the CARDS programme is being taken over in most of the countries in the region. And many of our experts took part in the staff training. For example, if the eyewitness of a particular criminal offence of a criminal organization would not be protected if care were not taken for those who, by their testimony, contribute to the prosecution of crime, the whole system would prove inhumane and, of course, ineffective. Because without witnesses, no protected witnesses, no justice. Because it is clear that witnesses to whom no appropriate protection has been provided will be clearly inclined to change the content of their testimony because of fear, will be inclined to change that content in a way that is more favourable to the perpetrators. The liquidation of a particular witness would not have had such a psychological effect that few witnesses would then dare to show up in similar cases, making it extremely difficult to prove the conduct of crimes. Also, the terrified witnesses will not present their knowledge and thus the evidence of criminal acts will be difficult to make it of course weak the prospect of criminal justice to punish the perpetrators of criminal acts. Therefore, there is also, of course, the interest of the State or criminal prosecution, i.e. the interest in making it easier to demonstrate and punish the perpetrator of criminal offences. The adoption of the proposed Act attesting the Agreement on Witness Protection Cooperation will improve cooperation between the States of signatories, in particular the movement and protection of witnesses, the exchange of information, administrative, technical and logistics support and training of witness protection officers. The protection of witnesses therefore seeks to remove or at least reduce the risk of life, health, physical inviolability, freedom, or property of a larger scale, or another important legal good witness. This Proposal to confirm the Agreement on Witness Protection Cooperation establishes an international legal framework for the implementation of the cooperation of the Member States in the field of witness protection, which will provide additional support measures for protected witnesses and we will therefore support it at the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53623	Thank you. And I call upon my esteemed colleague, Pejo Grbin, to state the SDP Club's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53624	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, Your Honor, Your Honor, In these days, when criminals from different countries are very closely involved and for the crimes committed from one country are often extended to the area of freedom of movement, as the territory of the European Union must resort to new ways of cooperation that will allow for a better and more successful fight against such phenomena. It is in this light that the Agreement on cooperation in the field of witness protection concluded in 2012 between Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, which is also for the Member States of the European Union and the countries to which the Schengen Agreement applies. The subject-matter agreement defines the co-operation, i.e. the measures taken by the States in cooperation with each other in order to protect witnesses and, above all, the measures relating to the relocation and protection of persons, the exchange of information, administrative, technical and logistics support and training of witness protection agents. This specific means that, in accordance with this Agreement and national legislation, witnesses whose protection for various reasons is not possible within the borders of one State of the signatories of the agreement will be able to be relocated and protected in the area of another State of the signatories, which will certainly enable more quality witness protection especially in the area of the fight against corruption and organised crime in which the issue of witness protection is particularly sensitive. In addition to this, according to my court, the most important part of the agreement, this Agreement also addresses the issue of carrying weapons of members of the witness protection service in another country, the issue of witness protection costs, or who will bear witness protection costs, who will bear the costs of protecting him in the area of another country, etc. In accordance with the abovementioned Club of Representatives of the SDP, it supports the adoption of this Act and ratification of the Agreement, with the hope that, as soon as possible, other countries will be involved in its framework, in order to better and more successful fight against increasingly organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53625	I thank my fellow coat of arms. I call upon my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, to introduce us to the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At first, I would like to say that the HDZ Club will support the Law confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of witness protection. An agreement signed so far by Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Poland. However, this occasion should probably be said not only of what we can say about what is so far about the meaning and objectives of witness protection, but of the fact that it is an international contract in which changes and additions of the text can not be made. So, in fact, one principle question arises as to how this confirmation of this international treaty and others can be done by us as Parliament or parliamentary bodies when all of this has been defined. It would be logical that, in the preparation of such international contracts of the contract, at the very least, delivery to the Croatian Parliament's home working bodies so that these laws, i.e. the laws confirming this agreement, could be discussed accordingly. On the other hand, the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law states that there is no requirement for the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. However, this is an assessment not based on some realistic indicators, simply because it does not know what dimensions will be in cooperation with the protection of witnesses because, as it is here in Article 11 of this Act, it is determined that the Contracting Party bears the costs of life or other measures of a protected person. So Croatia will bear these costs in these countries for protected witnesses that it proposes to be protected in these countries, and that I do not actually have a projection of these costs, whether they are smaller or higher than the costs so far, and also the contractual party to whom the request is addressed bear the costs of staff and material resources to protect those persons. In other words, we have no indication how much will be required to protect the witnesses of these countries who have so far signed the agreement in Croatia. Therefore, this finding does not require the provision of additional financial resources simply hangs in the air because no one knows whether or not there will be such funds. Therefore, I think that this way of conduct and proposing these laws should draw at least two lessons, on the one hand, that, before signing these agreements, this should be considered in the parent, at least on the Croatian Parliament's parent bodies and on the other, some real indicators should be given whether or not there will be an increase in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53627	Thank you. I call now and my respected colleague Bora Grubisic to state the HDSSB's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, sir from the Department of the Interior. The proposed law confirming the Agreement on Witness Protection Cooperation did not indeed go beyond that prescribed legal procedure to consider this legislative proposal by the parent bodies, the committees in charge of this matter. So, the Salzburg Agreement they signed in..., if read so, is the Czech Republic with a reputation, the Czech Republic, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Poland, and the depositary is the Republic of Slovenia, according to this legislative proposal, is an agreement governing co-operation in the field of witness protection. And then in the head of the four-eyed means necessary for the implementation of this law is actually on flimsy feet. Namely, we have no information at all, neither we know nor can predict nor have any data or indications of how many witnesses can be protected in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so as the Honored Professor Tudjman said. In any case, it would be more said that this is one technical law although there are no other European Union countries as signatories. I don't see any countries here except for that, for example. France, Spain, Portugal, Great Britain and Denmark, the Netherlands, no. These are the countries to tell that former eastern bloc with Austria, which is the signator of this Salzburg Agreement. The issue of insurance of additional funds therefore depends on the number of those who will seek protection as witnesses in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That is why I say again it is difficult to determine whether this will require additional financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and whether these funds will be so difficult to predict. Whether or not more of those protected witnesses will arrive in the Republic of Croatia during the year, so whether the funds will be spent or not, that is difficult to say. But just as it says, it's decided not to require additional funds, I say it's almost not standing or standing on flimsy feet. The HDSB club will be for this legislative proposal, there is no reason not to adopt it, but some things should still be fixed even though this is an emergency procedure. We'll be in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53629	Thank you. We are moving on to an individual debate that was attended by counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, but she is not present in the hall, so she loses the right to discuss this issue. Deputy Minister Tonkovic says there is no need to address it finally, so I am concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 3 p.m. with the bill of association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53630	Final draft law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of witness protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ 484. The debate on the final proposal is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 93 votes for the proposed conclusion in the text as proposed by the applicant. Proposed law, sorry. I note that the Act confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of witness protection in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53631	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. We will discuss - Proposal for a law on associations, first reading, P.Z. No. 485. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the management minister, Arsen Bauk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53632	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the right to free association of citizens in order to protect their breakthroughs or take over for social, economic, political, national, cultural or other beliefs and objectives. The right to free association is limited by the ban on the violent endangerment of the democratic constitutional order, and independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. The relevant Association Act was adopted in 2001 and the same step forward in strengthening autonomy in the work of associations as private-legislators who are established and managed by their members, and the basis for the development of criteria, criteria and procedures for budgetary grants to projects and programmes of interest for the general welfare of associations. However, over more than a decade of law enforcement, a number of problems and difficulties in its application have been observed, and after the public debate on the challenge of implementing the applicable law in March 2012, it decided to approach the draft new law. Namely, insufficiently clear provisions on the management of associations and bodies of the association, the association of associations in alliances, membership, assembly, respect for the principle of democratic representation and democratic manifestation of the will of members in the internal organisation of the association, acquisition and distribution of assets, and the pursuit of economic activity rarely in practice leads to different interpretations and unequal application of the provisions of the law. Furthermore, inaccurate control provisions, but also a very complex process to liquidate and delete associations from the register of associations have the consequence of almost 50,000 registered associations and only a little more than 800 deleted since the establishment of the register itself, which certainly does not correspond to the real state. The adoption of the new Law on Associations is an obligation arising from the National Strategy for the creation of an incentive environment for the development of civil society for the period 2012 to 2016 adopted by the Government in July 2012. After that, a task force was established. It was composed of representatives of the state administration body, the Office of State Administration in the counties responsible for the registration of associations and civil society organisations. The expert working group has drawn up a draft bill on associations. An Internet consultation with the interested public has been conducted. 51 indications were received, including associations, trade unions, individuals and bodies of the state administration. Important changes to the current law are as follows: The principles of the activities of the association, the principles of independence, the public, the democratic structure, the non-profit and the principle of free participation in public life are established. The founder of the association may also be a minor who is 14 years of age and an adult who has no business ability limited in taking actions relating to personal and property rights, but in a legally prescribed procedure. The membership of minors and minors with no business capacity limited to taking actions relating to personal and property rights, and the way their participation and possible decision-making must be prescribed by the statute, but subject to the law of certain conditions in order to protect them. Clearer prescribed provisions relating to the management of the association, and bodies of the association in particular to the assembly, composition, jurisdiction and maintenance of the meetings to be applied only if the statute of the association is not otherwise prescribed. A special emphasis was placed on the public and a greater range of data included in the register of associations and a register of foreign associations. In accordance with this law, all data entered in these registers and statutes of the association would be made public in accordance with specific regulations and publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Administration. Taking into account that changes are expected soon in the regulations governing the accounting of non-profit organisations are provided for in the register of associations through links to the register of non-profit organisations to make publicly available reports on the financial operations of the association with the prescribed documentation, which should greatly facilitate the financing of associations from public sources and contribute to the transparency of their activities for the common good. The provisions on assets and financial operations of the association have been fundamentally developed with regard to the definition of the property under which the conditions of the association can carry out economic activities, but also stronger supervision if the association carries out economic activities. The funding of programmes and projects of interest for the general good from public sources, i.e. the state budget, the budget of units of local or regional self-government and EU funds implemented by associations has been arranged. The criteria and criteria and procedures for funding programmes and projects of interest for the general good carried out by the associations will be governed by a regulation adopted by the Government and on a proposal from the Office for Association within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law. The adoption of the regulation will cease to apply also the code of positive practice, standards and criteria for achieving financial support to the programmes and projects of the associations. The questions of status changes, i.e. changes in the legal position of the association carried out on the basis of a decision by the competent authority in accordance with the statutes and this law, in which it is referring to the accession, merger and division of the association. In addition, competences for the exercise of supervision of the work of the association shall be specified. The primary supervision shall continue to be entrusted to the members of the association, other interested legal and physical persons, administrative supervision of the Ministry of Administration, inspection of the work of the association and the competent offices, inspection of the activities of the association to the competent ministries, and the Ministry of Finance shall monitor the financial operations of the associations and submit the prescribed reports. The greatest lack of the applicable law at least we could see in application was sublimeness. I hope this bill didn't make us go to another extreme, that we didn't freak out, but that's why we're doing two readings, so we'll consider suggestions and hopefully accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53633	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the club, independent representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin are not present, so they lose the right to debate on this point. And on behalf of the SDP club, colleague Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53634	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. As the minister also stressed in the opening part of the freedom of association is one of the fundamental civil and political freedoms. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees this right through Article 43 which speaks of the right to free association of citizens in order to protect its breakthroughs or to take up social, economic, political, national, cultural and other beliefs and objectives. The Law on Associations was passed today more than a decade ago, and this present proposal, which is ahead of us, is an attempt to bring about the perceived problems and difficulties that it causes in its everyday application, in fact, a new law that would bring about one additional security and avoid the current ambiguities and different actions with different actors, making different solutions. In other words, the urgency is that the current one, as the minister said, is certain to correct subsolence and that the law becomes clearer and subject to as few different interpretations as possible. Someone during all this debate that has been in the past, a months-long debate, said in the end that this is not a revolutionary law, does not bring anything revolutionary, but we at the SDP club believe that this is exactly why it is good and that it is worth studying. It's a good thing it goes in two readings, and it's a good thing that they're on one side of the Internet public road, but later and through public debates, round tables and counsellings, they've got different proposals, comments and opinions that have really been enough and we've all been able to see in the light of this law. The result is that, at least in our opinion, a lot of the remarks that were also respected in the debates, that the bill had experienced actually a number of changes and changes. So if you take that bill today that was not known first in the Internet consultation and in the public debate and take this proposal that we are discussing today, there is still a lot of difference, and even I personally found it a little difficult to follow the articles of an individual regular number of articles of the law. Therefore, the changes were clearly appreciated, i.e. comments and comments. It is essential that this proposal regulates only the establishment, legal position, operation, registration, financing, assets, responsibility, status changes, supervision, termination of the existence of the association and the operation of foreign associations in our country. When we talk about the number of associations in the Republic of Croatia, then it seems to us that exactly the inaccuracy of the current law in the area of supervision on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the proposed process of winding down the expropriation of associations must have affected the fact that today we have almost 50,000 associations registered, and at the same time at the Ministry of Finance in the register of non-profit associations there are 21 500 of them, and all associations should be registered in that register, and about 12 500 are obliged to submit a financial report. Well then, of course, we probably and rightly wonder how many of these active or live associations are in Croatia. When it comes to funding, it should also be noted that about 1.5 billion kuna is allocated from public sources for programmes and projects each year. Annually, between 50 and 70 invitations to tender for funding from the state budget and from gambling, and from the source of units of local and regional self-government of municipalities, cities and counties, nearly two-thirds of the funds are allocated from those 1.5 billion kuna. Of course, it should be pointed out that there are also funds that are included for public needs in sport, technical culture and others. However, what is certainly to be said because this was discussed in a public debate, which is that this law does not only regulate the financial operations of associations because this part is being resolved or will be settled by law among other accounting of non-profit organisations. On behalf of the club, we'd like to refer to certain provisions of the law. So it's good that this law is in two readings. So here is the reference to Article 11 when it comes to the establishment of associations, or how many members it takes to establish the association. There's actually the thinking of twos, do you go in more restrictively to say approach and go on to increase the number of founders? However, in this proposal, the government decided on one liberal character of the law when it comes to the number of founders so that the organisation can establish at least three founders, i.e. that it can be any commercially capable natural person and legal person. But on the other hand, there is a legitimate question as to whether this is one of the reasons why we should say the inflation of associations in Croatia as well? Well, here's maybe another reading to see if such a completely liberal approach or possibly something stricter. Furthermore, when it comes to membership in the association, one of the things we would like to warn about is Article 12(5), which says: "the list of members must always be available to all members and competent authorities on request". Well, from experience and work in different associations, among other things, the sports list of members is unfortunately not always available to all members, the competent authorities when necessary. And here I don't know if there's any possibility of sanctions, but when everything's okay, it's okay. But when something goes wrong, I say so in the association and when you ask for a list of members, then not every member can get an insight into the list. With regard to the statutes of the association and only this part that says that the statute of association contains provisions on so first says the name and seat, I do not know whether it is possible to control or not but that there are manipulations with the headquarters of the associations exist. I don't know how and how to solve it, maybe there's a way but there are different addresses being entered. It's obviously quite normal but I think there should be a certain restriction or something. It turns out that any private apartment can be the headquarters of the association. As for Article 17i, the question of voting on behalf of minors from 14 years of age whether they can decide at the assembly, of course again in accordance with some other requirements in other articles, is one of those who say that this is an increased possibility of manipulation in congregations when it comes to the meeting of a congregation of some associations. However, we at the SDP club welcome the fact that the government has given priority, however, to allow minors to vote in the congregations on certain conditions, because we believe that this gives priority to empowering one responsible role of children and young people in decision-making and social life processes, and on the other hand, it is also to align with international standards of freedom of opinion and association of children and young people. We are somewhere in the club's position that what I've just said is opening up the ability to decide on children and young people has an advantage over possible manipulations, so we find some other ways to prevent these manipulations. Furthermore, as far as I'm concerned, I can only warn a little about data change, that's Article 28. In fact, we want to warn about the problems that meet in everyday practice. It's one thing it says in the law, but when you're changing the person who's authorized to represent an association, then you have to wait for a while, of course, to get a confirmed authority from the competent office. Meanwhile, during this one period, the authority to represent the association has a person who was before you, for example. And now everything is fine if there were no problems in that association, but if there was a problem then eventually a person even more so who, because of certain irregularities, was addressed at the assembly of the association, in that one period essentially in a financial business sense, has the opportunity to use that authority. It's one step actually. In addition, it is also a matter of making other decisions during this one period. I have a very frigid example that I won't bother with right now here an auditorium but where we actually changed three authorized persons in a very short time. It happened that it was summer, and at the end of the day, the last person was waiting for a full two months to get permission. Meanwhile, there was also a sports inspection and the question was who had to listen, who had to receive a sports inspection, so these are different practices under different laws. One thing is the Law on Associations, if it's a sports association, then it's the Law on Sports, so it's the Law on Sports Inspection, and they're not in sync with each other. So here on behalf of the club we'd like to ask you some everyday to say the situation that, I know you might not be able to get rid of this particular law, but maybe through changes and additions to some other laws will be able to be harmonised. But trust some of those little things that someone might think they're not, but they can have some far-reaching consequences. As regards supervision, I therefore further welcome the further detail of the competences to exercise supervision over the work of the association, and yet that primary supervision remains entrusted to the members of the association. However, some autonomy of the association itself remains. And finally, by accepting this bill in the first reading, we believe that greater transparency and public action of associations will be ensured, and this will be a greater space for strengthening citizens' trust in the work of associations, because associations are nevertheless the most numerous part of organised civil society and is considered an extremely important part of social and economic life in our society. So by accepting the bill in the first reading, we hope that you will pay attention to these few remarks that we have had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53635	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53636	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. We have a new Association Act ahead of us. I would say it's time to solve the business of associations in terms of experience and now, as we've heard from the old law, but probably to use everything we've learned over 12 years in law enforcement, so far the Law on Associations. No doubt because of certain problems, we needed a new Law on Associations. And it's a good thing it's joined a new law. But I ask the question is that this new law is what we need. I will try here thanks to the fact that the first reading is to present proposals from the HDZ Club which I believe the applicant will have time, patience and will to take into account before making a final draft of the law. So we're aware that there was a need for a new Law on Associations. We also think that a major failure was made in proposing this First Reading Act, which is that we do not have any analysis of the application of the law so far. My colleague Sobol spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, we have over 50,000 registered associations, but we have no record of which associations, how many of them are financed from the state budget or local budget. We do not have any information on this in view of the process of liquidation which so far existed and which the applicant claims was difficult to implement, which is true and is now changing these provisions. How many associations have completed the liquidation process, how many have ceased to exist, and all the issues that have been raised since the law was applied, unfortunately we do not have quantified data and we do not have an analysis of why the law that has been applied so far has been bad. One of the basic reasons I would say is why the current Associations Act is bad or has not received certain results and that it was absolutely relevant to all possible associations without any differentiation or specification in view of the areas they deal with. Well, that's how this Law didn't make that distinction, and that's what we suggest to the proposer to change between the two readings. So if nothing else, if it does not categorize associations in several groups according to some subject of their business, then at least not to put out of the reach of this law those associations that caused almost the biggest interference in legal traffic, which is sports associations. All possible clubs and their alliances are also treated by this law. It has been shown in practice that this law did not mainly respond to many of the problems that occurred with sports clubs. I'll just say one that might be our best known and it's football. Football is organized in a way that part of clubs is organised as associations of citizens and some other clubs are organised as companies. Both associations and companies are later joined in a roof association made up of the Croatian Football Federation. We think that this is the way in which everything that was initially considered a good solution was actually played out when regulating the question of associations regarding those who are involved in humanitarian work to some common interests, so everything could be better regulated by the Association Act than it is a question of sport. And for that reason, it is our Club's proposal that, until the second reading, if anything else, you can get sport out of the scope of this Law and get rid of it by special law within the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. I believe it would help, then, in many ways and in the application of this law to all other associations. My colleague Sobol said something, and it may need to be specifically commented on that is the fact that we were favored when we made provisions on what number of people needed to form an association. And today it's a solution that exists from before. And that is that it is enough to have three people to set up an association, that is a solution from earlier laws, that was even in its own time, was a recommendation from the Council of Europe to encourage the work of civil society. However, that provision certainly has several weaknesses, sometimes this numberus Klaus or the required number was 7. The question is, is that number enough? But what is doubtless now, the problem with this number of three people who can establish an association is that the number of founders doesn't even have to satisfy the need for laws or statutes for the management bodies of the association. Because if the three of them are still going to form a congregation, one can be a person authorized to represent and practically other bodies you can't have because you don't have enough people to work at all in the association, represent and adequately perform all those functions that this association should have. We therefore believe, regardless of the declared freedom of association, that perhaps the number of three founders may be too small before, that the association may fulfil its purpose in view of their diversity. What seems to us to be the most important thing that will be safe and in the application of this law is the problem and has been in the present, that is, in this proposal, Article 9 of the principle of non-profit. The operation of the association is based on the principle of non-profit, which means that the association is not founded for the purpose of obtaining profits but can carry out economic activity in accordance with law and statute. In contrast to the previous law, organisations are now particularly allowed to carry out economic activities, and where this was not the case, the association was engaged in a very profitable activity, but were excluded from many of the provisions of many laws precisely because of this principle of non-profit that has always been mentioned in these associations in particular. We believe that this definition is not sufficient to guarantee that these associations will operate legally and that in the end those who are in question in the system of associations or something else will benefit from the benefits of better taxes or lighter regulations than the rules for their operation should apply. In any case, I think that even economic activity, economic activity is very difficult to defend that it will be out of the circle of non-profit organisations, or those obligations that if they are already profitable, that if they make a profit they must invest it in their own activity. It's been a norm that I'd say some of them used very well if they didn't stick to it. These are the principles of objections to this bill. In one large part, he reiterated the provisions of the earlier law, but unfortunately he did not bring about any changes I had expected, so one that the sports organisations should be exempt from the application of this law and that they should be regulated by a special law, the other that the remaining attempts might be grouped into several excessive units, and therefore it would serve as an analysis to see in which areas most often these associations are formed and then another distinction that does not know of course this law, which is that there are governmental and non-governmental associations. This is one distinction that exists in the whole civilised world, but we are constantly running away from introducing that definition into the law, and most often these civil society associations that are non-profit and non-governmental, in fact, I would say in most parts or exclusively financed from a state or local budget, and that is, according to it, saying that they are primarily governmental, not NGOs. What we have as individual objections to the text of this law, I will try it out, so I have said the principles of principle and as regards the principles of non-profit and the number of members for the establishment of associations, I will try everything that we have to say in this time. Therefore, in Article 19(2), you say that the meeting of the Assembly of the Association shall be convened by a person authorised to represent the association, another member of the association or body of the association prescribed by the Statute on his own initiative or upon request, etc. This means that every member of the association can request the assembly to be convened, and we think that it is neither intention nor practice in any collegiate bodies, nor associations that any member may request the convocation of the assembly, and then it goes further into these stories that you have developed through the mandate of those empowered to convene the assembly, etc. So I don't think it's a good norm that any member can ask for an association assembly, especially if they're numerically much larger. In Article 21, you say that associations from the same or different fields of action can join an alliance. If they can from the same and different then it's quite unnecessary to write it, then it's written enough to be able to team up with alliances. I think that's what you said. Another norm that is extremely inappropriate in the new law and seems to have somehow escaped. In Article 24 where you are looking for an entry in the Register of Associations, you must give personal names of persons authorised for representation and personal name or the name of the liquidator of the association. So one association that may never or may never be liquidated in 20 years unless it meets its purpose, but when registering it, it will have to have the name of a liquidator who, in the meantime, let's not let the little one die more of them and every time you have to make changes in the register, absolutely unnecessary. You must probably have the name of the liquidator before the procedure is opened or immediately before it is seen that there are problems in the work of these associations. What I think is also an important issue that has proved to be bad in practice is a provision for associations to stop if it takes twice as long as calling the congregation or maintaining the congregation from the one provided for in the Statute. This right has been misused so far, and when you sent inspections to determine whether the congregations had been held in that double-time since that prescribed statute, it would often occur that when someone felt that the work of that association was being controlled, they would then be antidated by the records of these congregations, and you can't really lead to the serious control of the work of a particular association and if it didn't stick to its own statute that it could then go to the ban on their work. I'm saying this because in this law you didn't foresee a ban on the work at all, a ban on the activities of associations, but it's only derived from the winding-up standards, which is quite something else. I think the association can certainly provoke a body that controls her work, and certainly can provoke a ban on her work. And what I was talking about about financing is the provisions of Article 36, so associations that implement programmes and projects of interest for general good are financed from public sources. Our proposal is here in view of and in time, little has escaped, until the second reading of the law, the Ministry is conducting one analysis to see which associations, in which amounts they financed, from the state budget or local budget, to see how many governments, NGOs and how much they worked alone and how they had the funds that were put into account. So these are some of the remarks that we have managed to make in this time and we would suggest that, in any case, you exempt all associations in sport from this law because it simply proved to be the biggest problem of the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53637	Now we'll hear the replicas. A colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53638	So here is the respected Vice-President of his colleague, Mr Mlakar, concerning the report, whether there are reports on the financing of associations, how much, by which criteria, by which activities or by which associations cover which area, etc. Every year, for many years, the government adopts reports each year for the previous year. These are reports that are actually quite extensive I have to say when I took the report for 2011 it turned out to be a report of over four hundred pages. Also for 2012. That's what the government's Association Office does. You have a detailed report. It is called the Report on the financing of projects and programmes of civil society organisations from public sources. This is what I'm talking about in 2012 but then, which has more special additions than just reports, has a special analysis of successfully implemented projects. It has a detailed overview of all projects and programmes that have been funded and has a special display of funding from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. So such reports already exist today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53639	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53640	Replica was an interesting fellow Sobol, but I didn't ask for reports in one word. I have requested an analysis that the Ministry of Administration, which is a resolutely competent body for the work of associations, to analyse from the number, type to the financing of all these associations, so that we can easily discuss all the conditions that are now prescribed by this law, and I will not take the time to consider why the provisions on winding-up don't seem to be good, why we think it's not very convenient if the associations are also allowed to be members of what we welcome but then I can't stand and the provisions that are not responsible for the financial operations of the associations but will give to the public notary a statement about it. A whole series of norms that are not compatible with each other, which for this first reading were not so important. We asked for an analysis to see which associations and how they were financed from state and local budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53641	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53642	Dear colleague Mlakar fully agrees with your request, the desire to exempt sports associations from this law. Already several times, the minister announced that the Sport Law would be passed and that the Sport Law would regulate the very status of sports associations. However, we have experienced two amendments to the Sport Act to adapt the law to the interests of individual groups of employees in sport, nothing else. Therefore, this is the great transparency of the Croatian government. Why should sports associations be excluded? Well, because it's hypocritical to say that football clubs are nonprofit organizations. In sports clubs, and even the smaller ones, there's a lot of money. In sports clubs, money was laundered. Sports clubs are simply the hotspots of what this government is fighting against, and that's corruption against what it's fighting. But to run at least, it shows good will to put sports associations in some kind of normal, let's say fair order. How is it that all the employees or most of the people in sport who work in these non-profit organisations are beautiful by 500 euros per head without any constant incomes, while they claim to work only for the interests of society, for the interests of athletes, for the interest of young people, which is a notorous lie. Well, therefore, your request is quite logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53643	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53644	Comrade Vuksic, you forgot to mention that they are much better at sparring than all of us, probably that's the reason. But why I started talking about sports associations, clubs, and I wouldn't want to generalize because the largest number of them is full of enthusiasts and with little resources, they have great results. I spoke because Minister Jovanovic, whose job it should have been, among other things, formed a sports inspection as much as I noticed in the government's legislative activity, but also in our news. And I can't really understand what that inspection is for unless it's controlled by those who would be within the scope of the law and for whom his ministry would be responsible. It's a problem that's been dragging on for a long time. But apparently someone's answering that all these sports clubs are in the system of about 50,000 organizations, because then it's much harder to exercise control. But this is a suggestion for him when he started clearing up the swamp, when you had already agreed on an inspection to act on, then I don't understand why he didn't take the jurisdiction he had to have in the amendments to the law, so he controlled the work of sports clubs and proved everything he had insinuated but unfortunately nothing proved in his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53645	Drazen Pandek, replica. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53646	I wouldn't really agree with this proposal that when we talk about the problem of sports that the establishment of associations is to achieve sports beliefs except from the domain of this law. First of all, when we talk about a group like that, it doesn't have to be a club. This can be an association that aims to not know how to arrange and maintain a particular sports playground that can be intended for general use. Therefore, such an association would then be left without some legal basis on which it would be established and based on which it would act unless it set some other objectives as a cause of establishment. It is true that there have been abuses, but so far abuses, i.e. avoiding the provisions of the current Law on Associations in the field of sports, I think it was more conditional on the fact that such associations were essentially not associations but were essentially companies whose aim was to show profits that were not shown as profits than to be poured through other channels into private pockets. I think this law is about to bring about certain changes that will help prevent such abuses. So here are the associations that do not comply with their statutes according to the provisions of this law, the competent office will, under official duty, be deleted from the Register of Associations. And I also think significantly about preventing certain abuses, i.e. in the field of ensuring that associations act in accordance with the law that the internal organisation of the association must be based on the principles of democratic representation and democratic means of showing the will of members. I think it's an instrument that will help even such sports associations that have so far done non-transparently and perhaps even illegally improve their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53647	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53648	If I'm a fellow Pandek, you're saying that sports associations stay within the scope of this law, regardless of what you're saying is simply not true. They are all associations or companies. But if companies are already some then they can't be in the Alliance of Associations, then they should at least be in the Union of Trade Companies. The worst thing is when you have one and the other options and you're entering a larger society at a higher level that is again an association, not a commercial society, as a case with the Hajduk Football Club if you will. But they are not in heaven or on earth what you used to say. All these sports clubs are associations and the fact that three founders founded a sports club, entered the register and acquired legal personality, which means they have the right to exercise both rights and responsibilities in legal traffic. It may owe you, it may remain a debt of great money that no one will have to pay back except for this variant that now these minors, let's say, will ultimately remain those who will have to return to liquidation or be exempted from the application of this law. We're talking about excess regulations. We're all aware that no football club can be treated as a nonprofit organization. Because it would mean that everything he had ever done with his business had to go back to his basic activity, and I guess we don't have to convince anyone that that's not the case. That is why we advocate and believe that a much better solution would be that they are excluded from this Law on Associations, that they are not compared with philatellist clubs, with the lovers of the birds of the singers, the evergreen trees, and so on rather than being treated specifically and in a special way then and controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53649	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53650	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You're obviously the principle of whether this law was meant to divide associations or not. Obviously, when someone is to be attacked, then they use the opportunity to attack, and at the same time when it's legal, they all shut up. If we have 50 and so many thousands of associations, if they are founded for a variety of reasons, and we regulate their business and their full operation with several principled provisions, then the logical thing is that what happens is. And therefore, in this law, some of the experiences of previous years simply had to be distinguished. And as for certain associations that exist as associations only because it is their legal model to reach legal subjectivity. Otherwise their model and mode of operation is tied up completely elsewhere so let's take these sports associations, take the firefighters, take the folklore societies. So, only these three segments that represent and through which the most Croatian citizens operate can you in no way identify them with some humanitarian associations, NGOs, etc. And not to mention, and I'm going to talk about it in an individual discussion more, model and method of funding and then this kind of nerd definition in Article 9 I think that the principle of non-profit is something simple which is funny. Because if you're using the provisions of this law here that says that the association that deals with the profit-making activity must use it in its own activities, or all football clubs in principle in the frameworks and the provisions as it says in this Association Act is more or less all the money they get for transfers they have, spend them for regular activity, for schools, for this, for that, and they're basically when you look at it 100% in accordance with this law. Because according to this law, they can't get paid and let's say how many 10 grand or 100 members they have to pay off. While at the same time the Profit Tax Act is regulated to associations and non-profit organisations which, just one sentence, please, which deal with the activity that is present on the market and is marketable, must be practically accounted for and charged on profit tax for that amount. But then the question arises how many more of them are in the Association Law?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53651	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53652	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll look back at two things that were said in the first two shows on behalf of the clubs. The first is a provision on the number of founders. So there are three founders in the current law. As far as I can see, there's an intensity and a desire to prescribe that number to be larger and I think we're going to suggest a certain increase for the second reading. Will it be like it was before, 10 or 7, we'll see it in accordance with other suggestions. As for the exception of sports associations, therefore somewhere a third of the total number of associations, so somewhere between 15 and 20 thousand are sports associations and, of course, they're not all active, and they're not all like the largest and the one most often mentioned. If they were to exempt the sports associations from the Association Act and put them into a special law, then the second-degree body within the Ministry of Administration would no longer have anything to do or no more complaints to resolve because 80 % of the complaints we receive on sports or hunting associations. So these are the most common types of complaints which solves the second-degree body on solutions to the office of the state administration or the City Office of Zagreb. We have prescribed in the inspection control provisions that the inspection of the performance of sports activities is carried out by the Resistant Ministry and is carried out by the Ministry of Finance to oversee financial operations. But as far as this part of the enrollment is concerned, the amendments to the statutes, the assembly, etc. We've been thinking about excluding sports associations from ours, let's say, in the middle of the circle, I've even come up publicly on that subject several times, but we've decided to put in the Association Act such provisions with the possibility of a special law, and that's the Sport Act within this solution, giving us some additional mechanisms that would then be for sports associations. Now we will also consider this proposal to exempt sports associations entirely from the Association Act and to see what the consequences would be if they did so now. So what would happen if we were to exclude from this law sports associations that would be in force and we could see in which direction they might go. I say the Ministry of Administration would in that case have significantly less to do with the second-degree body in resolving disputes within associations because most of the disputes are currently happening in sports associations. And because the status of a particular club, for example, in the rank of competition, either in action or in tradition, is linked to the name or some legal continuity that exists there. After the analysis and after the debate, we decided to refer this proposal to the first reading and we think that at this point it is best but of course we will also analyse these proposals that we have heard to solve in a different way but then we need to find a better way. So I don't see any other way to sign up for a change in the Register of Associations. So come the foundation of a certain congregation in the competent office application for registration in the register of new persons and what needs to be done is to check that the assembly held in accordance with the statutes, whether there was a quorum of decision being made. And the way someone trains children or whether they train players in a professionally good way is a matter of really sports inspections to regulate, whether someone is doing business and paying taxes, it's a matter of tax or the Ministry of Finance. In this section, the Association Act deals with enrolling a new person what Mrs Sobol said in the Register of Associations and yet to conclude that the statute is in accordance with the law or not. That's what this law should regulate. The fact is also that it would be much easier to argue that, in parallel with this law, it came to the procedure and the law on the accounting of non-profit organisations, because then we would have a whole picture of what this particular replica is after Mr. Mlakar's presentation which was discussed but since it is the first reading I think this is an opportunity to shed some light on this side and on the other side of the piece that has been in the Association Act, and then this financial aspect is really more focused when the Law on accounting of non-profit organisations comes, because then all of this which you have said will then be colleagues from the Ministry of Finance with whom you will then be able to discuss these financial aspects of control more relevant than with the Minister of Administration or other ministries that are already in that sense should implement the laws. Also in this law are involved, and let's say the fire departments that are to see, which are covered by a special law and all those who therefore apply this law in general and of course and if there are specific provisions then their specific laws apply. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53653	Thank you very much. The replica of Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53654	Dear Mr. Minister, it would be good for you to concentrate, except for the MPs, because I expected some reasoned answer from you, but at least what I expected you to say will not be excluded or we've been thinking, but we have concluded that it is best for the sports associations to remain treated by this law because otherwise, the Ministry of Administration as a secondary body would lose 80% of their work on handling complaints. God has given you these forecasts so you don't solve 80% of sports complaints but that's not an argument for the jurisdiction of individual ministries. The argument is what you're writing in the Department's Part-Corruption Act and sports and its possible activities are dealing with a ministry that isn't yours. Because of the problem that the Law on Associations was created with completely different ideas and cannot be simply imposed on sport because of all the specificities that sports clubs have suggested to you is to get them out of this law and be treated by a special law, which of course does not mean that one part of the rules on the establishment of a congregation of everything else can have. However, it is absolutely clear that it is in the section of Mr Jovanovic's ministry only a question of whether they are able and willing to write, come up with a concept and defend the law before parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53655	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53656	Yes, when I said that 80% of complaints come from sports associations, I just stressed that conflicts as far as associations are concerned most often occur in sports clubs and sports alliances. But they're not usually conflicts by who they're going to... And huntingly, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is generally not a conflict on who will play left and who will play on the right wing or whether these or those training methods will use for what more would be the competent Sports Ministry. But whether there was quorum in the congregation, were these delegates chosen by the statutes, etc. And it kind of falls more into our circle. But here I said we were thinking about it, that's what I said. If we had concluded that at this point in our first reading, we were to propose a proposal like this, but by respecting all the arguments that are still being made, we would see if there was a better way to exclude sports associations from the general rules and not solve them in any other way. But I'm going to repeat that what we're solving as conflicts are still in power, so it's like all other associations did they have a quorum, did they call within the time limit, whether there were enough votes for or against, and then we do it that way. And this is done again in the offices of the state administration in the general administration both for sports and sports associations and for all other associations. They could then also be a hunting association at the Ministry of Agriculture, a fire association at the Ministry of Interior, a folklore association at the Ministry of Culture, etc., etc. And that would be a whole other concept. Maybe it's like this, maybe it's easier this way. And we've had cases that even administrative courts, given that we now have four administrative courts, have brought different solutions to the same circumstances. So, uh... The same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they made different solutions, which then made it difficult for them to act in the second degree. But well, here we go in the right direction, and we'll see if we can hit any more of that fine tuning in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53657	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53658	Thank you very much. Well, I remember when you wanted the people to like you, then you chose one association, the football club Dinamo, and you asked as Parliament's representative to the Prime Minister's government how much taxes that Football Club paid. The minister, the second minister of Jovanovic, in his opening speeches before becoming minister spoke after he would dry... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've been a minister for two years. You're proposing the Association Act. I'm asking you now, what have you changed with this law compared to what you wanted to achieve then?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53659	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53660	... The question I raised on the current morning was answered in writing by the Minister of Finance, not by the Minister of Administration or not by the Minister of Sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So then the question you referred to me I believe that when there is a law on the accounting of non-profit organisations, unless you see a solution in that law that would answer your question in an even more reasoned way, you will ask the Minister who is or the deputy who proposes the law. What I saw in the bill not to confuse now is what you asked and more. So that's one thing. And it seems to me that in the response that the Minister of Finance of the time, Mr. Shucker, sent me and did not call on the Association Act. I'll find that answer if there's one sentence on the Association Act at least I'll pay you for the coffee to apologize for what I said incorrectly, but I don't think he called the Association Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53661	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53662	Well, that's exactly why I'm replicating you, Mr. Minister. You said in your presentation that some things should be resolved between the law on the accounting of a non-profit organisation. This Law exists and in principle all of what is now so pompously announced exists in the existing law. Also, what's wrong with the provision in this Act is that control will be done by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance is in this form at the principle level. The control shall be carried out either by the tax administration or by any other institution. Therefore, the tax administration alone can stand here. Also, according to the bookkeeping rule of non-profit organisations, that rule is still somewhere in '93. The years are clearly written to whom reports are filed. And that's what's not controversial. That's what's wrong with this law, as you've defined, but at a very principle level, who, what and how should you do about this financial part, should define these other things as well. That's why these associations were supposed to be divided by groups to say so. Because this is the principle of how someone can acquire a legal personality. You remember only here and about one association, there were stories of a national minority that in such a way they would acquire legal personality. So that's the only reason they asked to be an association. So, there are multiple abuses. However, this Law should, in my opinion, simply refer to certain associations that certain ministries should adopt certain acts under which these associations must act. Because as fellow Sobol said, the government is receiving reports. The government receives and publishes reports, it's a sublimation of all that has been done by the restoring ministries or offices that are in charge of all this together. It also states in this law that the control of the spending of financial resources will be carried out by the local self-government unit. The local self-government unit doesn't have that kind of instrumentation. But you have something that's in the Budget Law that stands and that's what all the budget beneficiaries are to the one who gives them the money to deliver the report as well as what the money is spent on. And to end with this about these unfortunate sports organisations, unfortunately their receipts are not properly solved and therefore we are forcing them into certain problems. And secondly, the National Union simply has to be an alliance of associations. And companies or other [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Clubs but then you have to put it in this law. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you don't put it in this law, no one else will. He can't regulate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] One sentence please just, here's an apology. But one sentence please. [[Intruder: Look at the time.]] Because then who's going to solve legal problems about the functioning of a football alliance and that's what's wrong with this law. [[You have one sentence all the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53663	You'll tell your colleague in the debate. The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53664	Thank you. Let's go from the last one. As far as national alliances are concerned, they are regulated by the Law on Sports, that is correct, the same, that they are subject to the Law on Associations. And then we have a case of a football alliance that's an alliance of county alliances. So he's an alliance of alliances. And the county alliances are the alliances of clubs. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Plus some more, yeah, yeah. But also clubs. ... Hey, buddy, I gotta move on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53665	Comrade, allow the minister to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53666	Which means the National Union is an association, an association. So, associations that make up associations that make up associations. And then to determine... And companies. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Zgrebec: Do not from the bench.]] But I like to de-commit here. Okay. And even now that it is an association, an association, an association, then to control the regularity of their congregation, you must control the regularity of all the congregations selected by the representatives of the assembly and who chose representatives to the assembly, which means that the supervision of one Football Federation Assembly would in such a way end in one five years and that it would certainly come from all those who were to choose delegates to find one who had wronged and annulled all. So that's where we have to do a little bit better to regulate and simplify that thing. As far as these financial aspects are concerned, then it will be written if the Ministry of Finance is to be written in the IRS, it seems to me that the IRS is still part of the Ministry of Finance. And in our discussions with other state bodies when we propose laws, we have done a lot of research on how to apply the current Law on Associations and Other Regulations, or other laws that regulate it, which affect the work of associations, and we still have a lot of work to do to complete this. This is one framework, so as far as the first entry of the change is concerned, as far as the reporting obligation is concerned. Then if someone sees that someone filed a report with a few dozen million dollars in their budget, then the one who gave him the money should primarily make sure that these money was spent in accordance with the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53667	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53668	Honorable Minister Bauk, before I spoke of sports associations that they should be excluded quite safely from this law, absolutely certain that all sports associations should not be put in the same basket. First of all, it is necessary to distinguish sports associations and professional sports clubs that deal professionally, where professional football players, handball players, basketball players are employed. It's absolutely necessary to make that distinction. You said earlier that you explained what the Ministry of Administration is doing when it comes to sports clubs, and then I would ask you to explain it to me, although it is probably also Minister Mlakar should have answered whether Mr. Stimac is the president of the Football Federation of Croatia or not. Because don't sit in a chair after your coaching career, because you said you were dealing with quorums, which is whether the assembly was held in spirit, in the letter of law, whether you made legitimate decisions and I know that we didn't get very precise answers. So it's hypocritical to put in the same basket of clubs that you yourself know that Mr. Mamic said that they sold hundreds of millions of players for hundreds of millions of euros, not kuna. And sports clubs that are really amateur sports that parents invest in so that children can play sports and that they should do it as soon as possible. That's what you announced when you came to power that you'd clear up that gunpowder. That's what the government said. When a minister speaks, he speaks for the government, so you'll probably give us some answers today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53669	Minister Arsen Bauk's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53670	Thank you. So, as far as the president of the Croatian Football Federation is concerned, the president is the one who's registered in the Association Register, and that seems to me to be Mr. Davor Schuker. Here's the register of associations is public, so it's public, it's on the Internet and it can be done at any moment. If there are other changes, then the competent authorities will carry out these changes in accordance with the documentation they receive either on the proposal of the person authorised to submit an amendment proposal, either at the verdict of the powerful Administrative Court and then we will do what needs to be done in the first degree. This is otherwise resolved by the City Office for the General Administration of the City of Zagreb. As far as sports associations are concerned, they are defined in Article 14. The law on sport, and Article 15 is also defined by companies. Therefore, this law is certainly a general regulation which, therefore, concerns the work of all associations and that special laws are closer to determining the specificities of certain associations, the type of associations. Now, here's the most part of the time she spent the debate in some way and well and I think it's also justifiable whether sports associations should separate from the general system and make a whole new system for sports associations. And it is now, of course, one legitimate question that we will consider and see whether the separation of sports associations would do more harm than good in this law, because then we would not have currently any system regulations dealing with sports associations. Thus, between the two readings, we will resolve this dilemma. But I'll repeat, so all the recommendations we have are not because of who's going to play left, but who on the right wing, but only about the question of quorum, convocation, etc. Which is more of a matter of administration, not sports professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53671	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53672	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers and colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this law, or the Proposal for a Law on Associations, we must first of all stress that these are one of the fundamental principles of the development of a democratic society, if we want to see ourselves as such, and that means that freedom of association is one of the fundamental civil, political freedoms necessary for the functioning of modern and political democracies and all of this is guaranteed by a number of international documents, that I am not talking about the General Declaration on Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. Of course, that part and principles are also embedded in our Constitution Article 43 which guarantees the right to free association of citizens in order to protect their breakthroughs or to take up social, economic, political, national, cultural or other beliefs and objectives. This law that we are now amending has been passed before the Law on Associations in 2001, and also in 2007 we have a code of positive practice, standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations from the state budget. I would once again emphasise another fundamental principle of the activities of the association and the principle of free participation in public life, which means that associations are free to participate in public policy and public opinion and express their views and opinions and take initiatives of their own interest. As it is essentially here that the Law on Associations in 2001 has passed more than a decade of application of the law, of course there have been a number of ambiguities, and this is seen during these discussions where he would, above all, mention the emphasis that is primarily in the register of Croatia 50,000 registered associations. There we could say that so far there have been very inaccurate control provisions, but also a very complex liquidation procedure, so we have very little, about 800 deleted since the establishment of the register itself. And when we talk about it, we have 21500 associations that are registered in the Register of Non-profit Organisations at the Ministry of Finance, which are of course obliged to enroll all registered associations. Although we have 12500 bond associations handing over the financial report, it points to a big gap between the number of registered and really active associations. It really needs to be emphasized that here we need to make quite a order. The remaining ambiguities defined by the previous law can also be noted that these are ambiguities in the provisions on the management of associations and bodies of the association, the ambiguity of association with the alliance, also in respect of the principle of democratic representation and democratic evidence of will, in the acquisition and distribution of assets, in the process of liquidating and eradicating the association from the register, in the financial support of associations, and I would mention that it is also an inadequate classification of the association in the Register of Associations according to their objectives and activities. All of this I believe was the foundation that we are here today at the debate... of a bill on associations where we would mention the following important changes concerning the law. One of the major changes is the establishment of the principle of action of associations i.e. Emphasises their independence, transparency and democratic structure. I would mention first of all here what is defined as how many members can have one association and we as a HNS club, Liberal Democrats suggest we stay on three members as an opportunity to set up because if we go to see what the other bodies of an association are, and we say that it is a congregation as an eighth body, that it must have some executive board of its own, that it is an executive board of directors, that it must have a supervisory board. The question, then, is how many members must have, because according to that logic, there were three board members and a three-member supervisory board, then there would have to be at least seven members of such a congregation, or members who could form an association. But if we do define that we have fundamental principles for the development of democracy, that freedom of association of fundamental civil and political freedoms should not be limited. Whatever we do wouldn't be good, so we suggest it stays the way it is. Of course, the basic issue being resolved by law is also the founder of the association. It is also a good point that a minor can also be a 14-year-old person, as well as a full-time person deprived of his business ability to take actions relating to property rights. Also, the membership of persons and minors and minors, as well as the way their participation and possible decision-making must be prescribed by the statute, but under the law certain conditions for their protection, and it is emphasized that indeed the statute must be a fundamental, basic document determined by any action of any association. And of course what is also said, the emphasis is that members of the association must first of all take care of the activities, the contents and of course the definition... of each of their associations. Because what's said, if you don't solve things yourself, you don't, of course, no one else on the side will be able to help you. That's why we have a... problem because we expect assistance on the side of what is legal regulation, but when associations are really people who are willingly joining them in order to satisfy some of their interests, goals, they must also take care of their work. Of course, there are also provisions which are defined as clear and prescribed arrangements for the management of associations and bodies of the association also provisions on the name of the association are clear and prescribed. Foreign associations shall be registered in the register of representatives of foreign associations, shall be defined and the particular emphasis shall be placed on both the public and the greater extent of the data entered in the register of associations and the register of representatives of foreign associations. What is said, indeed, all of these associations are publicly possible to obtain through the Internet, through all other possible reports and any basis of insight can later and place a certain objection or run some kind of activity around the work itself. Of course, the provisions on assets and financial operations of the association have been made in relation to the previous law, but I think that some of these things should be said what I should say later. Not to mention that the prescribed provisions on liability for the obligations of the association have been governed by the status changes, as well as the provisions on the termination of the existence of the association trying to resolve the handling of the competent office in the event of one of the reasons for the termination of the work of the association and the conditions for the distribution of assets. The new law proposes the termination of the association's existence following a shortened procedure in which the liquidation procedure will not be required. Since the substantial amendments to this law in the transitional and final provisions have been made to the obligation of the association to comply with its statutes with the law within a year of the entry into force of this law, which we consider to be an absolutely acceptable period in that part. Of course, what we would particularly like to mention about this part when defined and implemented by this law is the question of whether the association is carrying out its activities only as a formal question for the exclusion of its members or associations as part of the community's work for the general good, that is, the principle of non-profitability. And there was a question of what would be good to do with an analysis, which is the biggest irregularities that are being raised around the work of the associations themselves. I think they're acting and they're running the procedure most because of it, but it's all about the money. And this part of the principle of non-profitism, i.e. working for the general good, is in good faith but probably really about the assets and the means for the work of these associations, because let us also be honest volunteering as such has long been overcome and no one, regardless of the general good and the kind of associations in that part, is very unfortunately all about money. In this respect, we propose that, in that part of the association in accordance with its activity, they should take care of all the laws and regulations and, of course, their registered activities. We propose that, indeed, only by law, more emphasis should be placed on how to differentiate associations according to activities and the character of the association. I really note and stress that we had an example of sports associations, and before that, we had a debate about the Dubrovnik Walls Protection Association a few weeks ago because there are large amounts. In this case there were 45 million kunas, and in this part of the sports associations we don't even know what, 100 million kuna, is at stake. And now that such associations have this property, they spend and acquire property without a public tender, without any other means, then what I said is very important that this part of the legal section about funding is taken into account. And we would really like to stress that there is not enough precise provision on the rights of the association to carry out economic activities because it should be specified under what conditions and with which purpose and objectives that are the sources of evidence that the association reinvests in the development of the association and how economic activities can be carried out in accordance with the law. I think that this law may need to be a little bit broader to define and specify how this part and especially economic activities and especially reinvestment of the funds acquired can be more qualityd above all. What would also be mentioned is that there are not sufficiently elaborated conditions for granting financial support to associations from public sources, and unfortunately here I know from practice as mayor there are different standards in handling both at national and local level and thus the possibility of different abuses in the use of funds from public sources intended for the implementation of programmes and projects of interest for the general good, and this should be an emphasis. Of course, we all know that the association must not carry out its activities in order to obtain profits for its members or for third parties. And the question is how many regulations there are and whether there are bodies that commit public authorities to funding associations. It is exclusively always in some sphere of business decision whether the mayor, the mayor, their city councils based on certain strategic documents, plans and, of course, the objectives of each work of the association. There would be one solution, which is now the case, but perhaps it should be a general rule, that each public source financial provider must conclude a contract with an association to implement a concrete project and programme in which the sanctions are defined in the event of non-execution and are linked primarily to the obligation to repay the funds paid. Information on non-executive obligations should then be exchanged by the competent national authorities for the purpose of a uniform treatment of contractors of contractual obligations. I particularly point out that because what we have is a characteristic that associations would, above all, need and have... to a greater extent and EU funds. Again, I can say from my experience it is really defined in the most qualitative way of rights and obligations of users of all these funds and would be a problem that if an association gets funds from the EU Fund that does not justify these funds according to the question of who will then be competent and responsible for the return of those funds. Because this is what the EU and the European Commission really do not forgive and these funds must be returned. Anything else we should and what we've been saying here can always, under some kind of cover of democracy, be aware of the level that it's illegal to limit freedom of association, and these malversions that may still be possible to prevent clear and consistent criteria for the financing of associations. And we'd like to stress that out in particular. And I would also like to make one proposal, which is that, following the adoption of this Association Act, it is necessary to implement a comprehensive campaign and the establishment of all associations on the necessity of harmonising the statutes with new legal provisions, plan and prepare manuals, guidelines for associations relating to the application of the new law and, of course, sublegal acts. There, I would really like to commend the ministry because a very good consultation with the interested public has been carried out and we see that the vast majority of the proposals that have been made for this law have also been adopted. And here's really another commendation for the minister and the ministry itself. And another suggestion, also as I have said, perhaps this ministry and all ministries in their management should find a way to find out how through certain bodies, they are advice or other bodies, which would help associations to consult on the construction and implementation of standards of implementation of projects to monitor and improve them, but also advice on addressing possible problems in the overall system of planning and implementation of EU projects. The EU projects are important to us, we have them, and it is really up to us whether we are capable and willing to use them. And what is said to have 1.5 billion kuna in Croatia used by associations, out of which 1 billion is what is obtained and public funds from local and regional self-government that the funds that are able to obtain from European funds and the Union are also much greater. It is up to us, once again, to take advantage of them, and there may be advice to the ministry that, in the light of their competences, everything also does to educate, inform and be successful. Here again on behalf of the HNS Club we also support and commend the adoption of the Bill on Associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53673	Thank you. Replica, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53674	Thank you very much. I may not have understood it well, but you said they were funding associations, meeting with the mayor or someone and agreeing. On the basis of projects and programmes, on the basis of the criteria of each year, a tender for co-financing of the programme is launched, there is always a commission to consider these programmes and projects, and based on the examination of the projects and programmes, the commission proposes the amounts co-financed to associations for certain projects and programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53675	Reply to the replica Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53676	You misunderstood me. This is really your correct quote. I have indeed said that cities and municipalities make decisions on co-financing of associations based on these criteria but it is a question of what are the criteria. They are still being reached at one political level whether the criteria for more support will be for sports associations or environmental protection, whether they will be other associations. It is a strategy that should still be a little more uniform at the country-wide level because everyone has other priorities. But of course it must be transparent through a programme plan that is being put forward through competitions and through a commission which then determines the part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53677	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53678	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new Proposal for the Law on Associations, first reading. I would point out here that it's been a decade since the current Association Law was applied and probably well that a new proposal has come. Based on past experiences, actions, criteria, and everything else that has never been as regulated as they are here before. More specifically, provisions on the mandatory content of the statutes of management of the association, the provisions on the name of the association, foreign associations, assets and supervision of the work of associations as well as the public and the greater scope of the data entered in the register of associations, all with the aim of facilitating the work of the managing body and the greater transparency of the work of associations. Special newspapers include provisions on the termination of existence, liquidation, erasure of associations, which will allow the organisation to exist and the public will have an accurate insight into the actual number and activity of associations in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, criteria and criteria and co-financing procedures for the negotiation of programmes and projects of interest for the general good implemented by associations are defined. The old law did not thus enable and define the criteria of the financing procedure of the programme and project of general interest by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Association Office will now bring the financing practice of associations by the competent national authorities of the units of local self-government and regional self-government and other public institutions but also states that an additional regulation will be adopted. I believe we won't wait long for that regulation to be applied. Also commendable is the comprehensive arrangement of the concept of the establishment and operation of associations that are proposed by the new law. However, what is also questionable is the possibility that the founders of associations can now be persons deprived of business abilities and minors from 14 years of age. So I'm really asking here, and I want to be able to respond today to people who are 14 years old so I can be the founders of an association, I'm not personally comfortable with it. It is then necessary to amend the person empowered to represent, which appears for the first time in Article 11, in the follow-up to Article 20 and in the title of this article, the responsible person of the association. Since any person may be authorised to represent, not every person may be legally responsible for the association. In Article 55, the wording of the responsible person of the association has been correctly used, and Article 51 should remain a person authorised to represent because it is a liquidation which is indeed authorised to represent the liquidator who is truly and authorised to represent until the final winding-up procedure. Article 32 discusses the possibility of carrying out economic activity by the association, and paragraph 3 states that the association can set up a company to carry out economic activities. We believe that the word should be replaced by the word seas in order not to question the actual purpose of the operation of the association. Therefore, the association should act in a non-profit manner and in accordance with its mission, and if it decides to launch some self-financing activities through economic activity, then it should, it should, in turn, start a company. They have not done so, and in this way we will have as it has already started and we will happen that the existing cafes are shutting down trades and they are setting up associations that can deal with economic activity, so this legal form is more worth it because they can carry out economic activity and theoretically report to competitions and co-financing of associations programmes. This could lead to a long-term distortion of the economic picture and damage to the reputation of associations in society. When prescribing the obligation to set up a company, where the association decides to deal with economic activities, it is necessary to bear in mind that the association for the exercise of economic activity may also establish other forms of legal entities such as In this case, the legislator should not determine only one form of legal entity to carry out the economic activity of the association. Furthermore, we have a list of activities for the general well-known social entrepreneurship which should be changed into social entrepreneurship because, whether it is linguistically speaking, there may not be a difference between these two concepts, however, in everyday use social care, which is not the primary part of social entrepreneurship that can have the action of young people in its focus, within the context of culture, in the context of environmentalism and the like. The Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is preparing a national social entrepreneurship strategy and their working group is currently benefiting from the concept of social entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship until the final decisions on the use of the generally accepted term have been made in the text of the new proposal of the Association Act. Furthermore, Article 54 mentions the Foundation's point of view which I think should be left out because under the current Foundations and Foundations Act, only a time-limited trust and, as such, I believe, it will be abolished by the adoption of a new Fund Act that has been announced for many years, and which, now that we are members of the European Union, really needs to be made aware. It is good that the new bill regulates inspection supervision of the work of associations, and especially the process of liquidation because so far many of the partners have said that we have a figure, a magic number of 50,000 registered associations in the Republic of Croatia. It's certainly not real information about the number of active associations so that this number right here I dare say that maybe 30% is less than this number 50 grand. It is a good thing that this bill regulated infringements, i.e. penalties for violations, but here it should certainly be taken into account whether the proposed amounts from 2000 to 10000 are real for small associations whose annual income does not exceed those amounts, while for some large associations, and here we have talked a lot about sports associations etc., have millions of revenues and these amounts may be very little and it would be good to arrange this area... the levels of penalties relative to the annual revenues of associations. I'd like to be here. I'm in a bit of a hurry not to run out of time because I'd like to mention something that I also find very important. Our pensioners in the Republic of Croatia have a million and 220 thousand pensioners and exist, they are also involved in associations. The two largest associations are the Croatian Retired Mother and the Croatian Retired Union. Here in particular in the Croatian Retired Matica there are 29 organisational units and over 13,000 pensioners are joined. I have checked today several times and with the Matica pensioners, the representatives of the queen, they do not get any funding for it, they themselves are financed through their memberships which amount to 1 kuna per member and they are involved, they join, and the associations they have where they are involved are of exceptional importance to them. So here I'm asking, let's say, is it necessary and thought very well that one of the largest organizations doesn't get any funding for projects and programs. Yeah, they competed, I asked that. We also have an example of Zagreb, the Matica of pensioners in the city of Zagreb has 350 organizations, and there are 275,000 members, but their programmes and projects at local level are co-financed regularly every year and what is not co-financed is a cold drive, but this year we will see for what we will do next. I'm really asking one question that really our pensioners who gave everything they could to this beautiful Croatia, and we here through pensions, wouldn't be here, but we here at least through the NGO sector, through the work of associations, which means a lot to them, so at least we give a lot more solidarity and a lot more projects and programs that we can co-finance them, which is their life. They're not alone, they're hanging out, they're going on trips, they're singing, they're dancing, they've got workshops, they've got counselling sites, etc. Maybe it doesn't matter to you. It's so important that you believe me. We did one research, there were questions that were most difficult for you, from finance and all, you know what turned out to be the hardest, to be alone. The hardest thing was for them, the ones who were alone, it was the hardest thing for them to do. On projects and programmes, they and if they co-financed them, they would be even less alone. And I would also like to ask the Honored Minister, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed the National Council for Retired and Older Persons. They are not and then it is agreed that no bill will come to our benches that will not if it applies to pensioners and elderly people, who will not be discussed before that on the national council. Today when I called my representatives on the queen, they didn't even know that today this proposal was on the table so I asked the respected ministers or you didn't know that it was so agreed or electronically agreed on, but for them this was agreed and therefore the National Council was appointed that everything concerning the issues of persons of older age, law, and also of them, to be held at the National Council. I'm sorry it's not, and I hope that what I've said here, these remarks, is first reading, that you'll respect them, and I also hope that everyone has heard well about the pensioners that this is their life if their projects and programs are more quality and better co-financed and supported. The HSU Club will support this kind of reading, or first reading, but we will certainly support this, but I hope you will take this into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53679	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53680	Here's my dear colleague, I'd really like to do this one more time... on what you asked us to really meet certain criteria for funding the associations themselves. Let's say the law firm for financing the association of firefighting, the decree is also legally defined how much it should be set out for the Red Cross. Here, the same thing we said about an association like this being a pensioner's association is really just based on the strategic specifics of certain cities and municipalities as much as they think they support in that part. I can say that indeed in the decision-making and defining of support by the local administration of my city, the towns of Lepoglava they get are practically others by the height of the separation for the pensioners' association because we really respect the needs of these people and respect their contribution to the development of our city. And there you really should see that it will not be a product of just good faith whether or not someone wants to give it or not, most often it is considered only a cost where the funds are then not allocated, but really one need for these associations with their civilian content to contribute to the development of their end, their environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53681	Replication response, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53682	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would just add to this everything I said, it's very important that our pensioners are active and that they're involved, that they don't feel excluded, and that's all I just said. And what you have now mentioned and the criteria that you have said, uniform criteria that but let's say I will be very pleased when these criteria will be at the state level and each local level will apply it, but now this commission that I've been speaking about the programs and projects of the associations brings to the proposal of the office and the criteria. These criteria shall be discussed in the competition and projects and programmes of the associations shall be reported on the basis of the criteria set out. I'm talking about the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53683	Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53684	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You've opened up a good question for your colleagues, and my colleague has now begun what I wanted. You mentioned that perhaps at national level we should also create some priorities and that is why I will warn you of some priorities. You've warned the pensioners' associations and I fully agree with you that many of these are endangered categories of our society. But on Friday, however, we discussed the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities, and she then pointed to a major problem, the problem of funding the associations of people with disabilities. Why? Because this year and in the state budget almost all the budgets have reduced the funding of these associations due to lack of money. And these are associations that very often right through their programs solve a very, very significant problem for people with disabilities. I think in this law we should separate some associations. You yourself said that the Red Cross, that the Fire Community, all those associations that have a certain percentage of funding from the budget, have certainly secured funding. Perhaps you should consider that in this society there are other categories of society such as pensioners, such as persons with disabilities who cannot be left to the will of one or a group of people who will say today is a priority for funding, next year is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53685	Replication response, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53686	Thank you very much. Dear MPs that, when I prepare for the debate, I have also heard from the Attorney's Office today, and I also wanted to hear their remarks to be made here today, but they are already respected in the government's own proposal. However, I fully agree that it is the people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and pensioners that I will tell the categories of citizens who really need great support and for the last time in the exhibition that I said that the last line of defence regarding financial resources and resources is persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53687	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53688	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with your associates. Well, here's to this peaceful afternoon and peaceful debate, given that today we have a proposal of the Law on Associations, which is well written on the benches of Parliamentarians. So I think that this debate is actually with very small remarks, with such certain remarks that are not important or significant, but this legislative proposal has been written in detail, detailed and elaborated all possible positions and situations in connection with associations. I'll start at the end, what my colleague here said about criminal provisions. In this regard, given that there is a large range of businesses, i.e. the incomes of individual associations, then and the criminal provisions, it may not be convenient for them to be equal. So it would be good to do a revenue categorization and then determine the criminal provisions. I think this is how when they're unconfirmed, they represent difficulties in the event of a repression on a particular association because of certain things that have been done. But here we go from the beginning. Fifty thousand associations are registered in the Republic of Croatia, they say they turn everything together with those sports associations of about five billion kunas. Active in the Republic of Croatia is difficult to determine how many associations operate. Is that 21,500 as much as it says there are non-profit organisations at the ministry, then 12,500 bond associations hand over a financial report, the others don't hand over. So there's a little bit of an unknown how much this association actually has. In particular, Article 1 of this Law clearly states that the provisions do not apply and do not apply to political parties, religious communities, trade unions and employers' associations. Speaking of political parties, because without politics and without parties, and we can't say that your ministry has a number of political parties from about 137, right, so I thought I'd mention what's clearly and loudly defined here, and what's new in this law, which is the establishment of a liquidator function. Namely, all political parties copying and newly founded, newly established, copying the statutes of those who exist prescribe a provision that the party, as well as the association in one part, can shut down only the assembly of the association or the assembly of the party. When differences occur in the association or party, the congregation is usually unable to meet. And clearly that is how you have on your list and on our list in the Republic of Croatia so many parties but also so many associations. Because it is simply final or should I say a congregation that would determine that this party or association no longer exists cannot be maintained because membership will not come to that assembly because such a situation was in the association either in the party. And that's why we have this number and the parties and associations on the list. I can say from a personal example, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. But here is now the instrument or function of the liquidator, and then there is another way of shutting down the association not only by maintaining the final to say the assembly of the association but also by other means. And that's good. It is good that order can be established in the list or register of associations. Article 4 defines what it is, in fact, an association and it is said that it is every form of free and voluntary association of several natural and legal persons who, etc. in order to protect the breakthroughs of commitment to the protection of human rights, freedoms, etc. The number of natural persons required for the draft or founding of the association is three. So I'd joke a little about our Croatian saying, three Croats four parties or three political Croats like to tell your President Milanovic, a political Croat that three political Croats and four parties. But so does the association, so we have 50 grand, so each of them has three members. Although a single member of the association may be a member of another association, that is, and then we can engage with the number of associations. In Article 9 of the principle of non-profit, the operation of the association is based on the principle of non-profit, which means that the association is not founded with the purpose of obtaining profits but can carry out economic activity in accordance with law and statute. It's usually that if we take the number of these phenomena, then it's usually some kind of coffee shop where the prices are cheaper than the cafes in the city, etc. where you can get a cheaper drink. So the establishment of companies but, as is said here, it wouldn't be a bad idea for associations to be able to form and operate and form a cooperative or to deal with social so-called social society. the economy in terms of the establishment of nursing homes, kindergartens, etc. or some other institutions that would work in this regard. Each one says the association in Article 13 of the Statute and that's standard. What determines the statutes? He determines the name of the association, the headquarters of the association, who is representing it, the seal of the association and all others, and ultimately says the selection and recall of the liquidator of the association. It's what's new and what's good and what can finally lead to a state-of-the-art in the register of associations. And determines the termination of the existence of the association. It is clear that the statute must comply with the positive legal rules, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and must not jump out of it because otherwise it cannot obtain permission or be allowed to work or cannot be established. What is significant is in Article 33, where it says that programmes and projects of interest for general good in the Republic of Croatia which are not implemented by associations can be financed from two points: the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government or EU funds and other public sources. It is in that segment that I was talking about how all associations can deal with, what economic activities they can carry out, that they can withdraw and run for EU projects. Co-operation and associations, so association, so here's what the minister said in the alliances, etc. Such associations, alliances and cooperatives have already been very developed in the EU. That is why it would not be bad if some of the associations turned to exactly such projects, such programmes that can be beyond institutionally, therefore, both outside the ministries and elsewhere withdrawing funds from the EU through good projects. And finally, the inspection supervision that is being introduced in connection with the work of the association is also a good thing. It determines who is the one who sees the work of the associations and ultimately determines the termination of action if the association slowly shuts down. And the reasons for stopping the association's activities are therefore the congregation's decision, that's what I was talking about, about stopping the work of the association. And it was almost exclusively before that provision, therefore, that the decisions of the congregation that had never been held. 2. attaching to another association or to the separation of one association to two or more associations, then the course twice as long as the time foreseen to hold a regular session of the assembly. It has not been maintained, there are possible malfeasances and manipulations with the maintenance deadlines of the annual assemblies of individual associations. The court's decision to terminate the association, to initiate bankruptcy proceedings at the request of a member, and then to implement the so-called ‘Agreement’. On the basis of a decision by the Court of Justice, the suspension of the association shall be decided by the competent office to initiate the winding-up procedure and then shall have the capacity of the liquidator. I repeat once again that the criminal provisions of this law which is good, which is excellent, which is comprehensive, in which every detail of the work and activities of the associations is worked out, I say maybe I should adjust to say material, property business and the state of each association, and somehow it would be good to step it up. So it's not the same society as a football club or a football club in relation to the Society of Fishermen or lovers of the Crissant or not known to me either. Thank you very much. The HDSSB club will accept this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53689	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53690	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's colleague Grubisic, you were talking about how many numbers it takes to be the founders of the association. So from some Roman law that I read in the explanation of the three should be the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, so that they can form an association. I think this very ratio of the number of factors that are the founders of the association caused the possibility of such a large number of 47,000 you say 50, I read the figure that 47,000 established associations in the Republic of Croatia and that should change that relationship. So if we have here to monitor the internal bodies, the board of directors, then there must be at least three members of the Supervisory Board. These same three members cannot be founders, cannot be president, vice president or body president. The court of honor, which is also defined as having to exist in the association, should have at least 10 founders meet the demographic standards of internal supervision and everything, and I believe that at that time the number of associations that would exist would be reduced. So there are relatives, three cousins, three godmothers, three these, three they establish an association and we have them on record using maybe state resources, I'm not sure, the possibility exists, using tenders of various forms of assistance and justification of those same as professional and competent, they will do so. I think ten people are the smallest number to meet the needs and that this bill should go with it to be ten. They may also form bodies defined in the statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53691	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53692	I'm not looking for any sanctions, but I'm still asking you to warn an agent on Article 238 regarding 236 and 235. Namely, he used the replica and used the words: so the association as three persons would be necessary, could be founded by the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. In this way, by misbehaving because he mocked the greatest, he hurt the religious feelings of the MPs because in such a way he is playing with the greatest..., with the secret, with the holy trinity, so it is absolutely inappropriate and I pray that he be warned. I think he figured it out and he repented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53693	We've heard a lot of things today, and then we don't react to that kind of thing, and our colleague accepts it. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53694	Dear Djakic, your sin is your sin. I wanted to say that, in fact, my colleague Djakić looked at the core and focus of my debate and that indeed one association with all the bodies she has and which are foreseen by the statute and in the establishment, etc., could not function with three members, so this figure of ten or if an odd number of eleven may be more suitable for the foundation or design of the association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53695	We're moving on to an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53696	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. Here is our Constitution in its provision of Article 43. talks about freedom of association, I think it is a very important norm to guarantee everyone the right to free association in order to protect their breakthroughs or to take up social, economic, political, national, cultural and other beliefs and goals. For this reason, everyone can freely establish trade unions and other associations, including themselves and from them, to come forward in accordance with the laws. So we were already 12 years ago it seems to me that in 2001 we passed the first law on associations. It's been a long time, I think all the debates are commendable, they're going after that the associations have contributed to our social life, so I'd say they've had political parties with them. You're touching yourself at that time in the association, in their financial business, you almost didn't impose that kind of need. However, I am going to say about this Bill on Associations, not to repeat everything that the other colleagues have said commendably, I will refer only to Chapter 5 which speaks of property and funding because I believe that we are already at such a stage of the development of society that associations are given financial review, monitor, control, that it is no interference with their freedom of organization, that it is, however, helping associations to achieve their goal for which they are established. This is the most common circle, an interesting circle for certain goals, these are mostly very noble goals. In this way, they help and dissipate the state, and therefore take on such one state prerogatives even easier when they do so, even more credible. However, what is certainly not to welcome, that is to say, to support Mr. Minister, his team, is ultimately Mr. Prime Minister and announced, that many in our past are just remembering, we will not now return to the recent past but we will all agree on that and therefore I support this proposal that came from the HDZ to give us the funds that are being spent on which associations. So many associations have served as auxiliary wheels on that bike some kind of political game, which is unacceptable. After all, the question is how they financed because they certainly didn't just do it. Many organized themselves in such a way. We still have today in the local environment that it is very easy to win that political option that dominates certain key associations. That's inadmissible! And that is why these provisions that are small changes will mean great progress for political life against corruption, and will really improve the work of associations and their nobility. The question here has often been rightly asked what is with, now we all finally agree on it, with big professional clubs that you simply can't understand that they've been doing decades and more business as citizens' associations, making profits, nobody knows what's wrong with it and they're citizens' associations. But the citizens didn't eat onions or smell onions. Therefore, what we are now following in the changes to the Sport Act has already changed a lot of things, but still the academic but every sports club that does not professionally do recreation, to prevent different diseases and for the sake of health, but to create a way to get professional clubs, of course they still have it I can't even say it in my debate competently or express what athletes all they need, or to such a team everything they need to be to be a professional club. Then we'll have a clean situation. I'm certainly not in the mood for other sports associations to be involved, look at this. It's the easiest thing for you to see in your local community where there's a lot of, a lot of youth, women of adult people gathering in associations. After all, they make up 80% of the sport life of a city. And when you see how much, I'll tell you on the example of Zadar, who had a famous basketball club, which had a football club also very respectable at what they burned. The city gave millions and millions of kunas. It was also a question of our opposition in the city where the money was going? We're willing to help our club, but we want to see how that money is spent. The answer is that it's not possible, that they can do whatever they want. Now he won't be able to do what he wants. True, those who have fallen into debt have found their way out, they seek their way out now and into conversion. They spent money, no one knows how, they used the legal opportunity for the state to write off their debts or to transfer that claim to local self-government units, and there are still the last possibilities for such clubs to be saved. But now it's neither the time nor the time to talk about them, that we concentrate on our associations that don't need what some say, so what are we going to do anyway? And on the other hand, they say, and the money we're getting from abroad, look out for this, it's very well controlled. So it's perfectly normal for money from abroad to be controlled, and that's what many associations are used to. They just haven't even gotten used to controlling the money coming from the state budget yet. Thank you very much. So, honor to everyone's faith to anyone, all of it to control.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53697	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Miss Plancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I came forward for this debate so that I could welcome and support the adoption of this new one by far more extensive, more detailed, and clearer Associations Act. Because it is evident that the role of associations in our society is increasing and that they are increasingly present in solving priority social problems and that their action was necessary legally much better. The Law on Associations adopted in 2001, or its amendment in 2002, is in force, and we are in practice witnessing a number of issues, problems, often abuses especially in those situations where associations and operators are carrying out economic activities, obtaining their own income, and often without quality control using public funds, and perhaps because of such phenomena in 2007, the Code of Positive Practices was also adopted, which detailed the financing of associations from the state budget. In the assessment of the situation, we can therefore begin from the fact that we today do not have accurate data on the number of active associations because, as we have already heard from them today, almost 50,000 registered in the register at the offices of the State Administration are only 21 500 enrolled in the Register of Non-profit Organisations at the Ministry of Finance. And that's the information that concerns you, given that this enrolment was mandatory. Associations are very easy to establish, we know that there are enough three founders, and often it is questionable which part of them does not justify the reasons for their existence, because often the initial enthusiasm of the founders for various reasons of discounts, the activity dies, and sometimes the funds are allocated by an inert without adequate control and especially at local level. The draft law provides for the integration of these two registers, hence registers with the Ministry of Administration and Registers of the Ministry of Finance, which will, in my opinion, ensure one transparency in the activities of associations and the public of their activities and facilitate funding. The proposal for a law also represents significant progress in the regulation of the assets of the association, conditions of carrying out economic activities and enhances supervision in the performance and activity, as surveillance is said to depend on the activities of the association. And I especially single out the part that I find crucial from my own experience, which is that this law much more detailedly regulates the terms of use and control of the spending of funds from public sources and those allocated at regional or local level. Because, as counterpart Anticevic said, we also know that the allocation of funds to local associations was often arbitrary without clear criteria and control, and so it was often a very effective instrument to provide support for the political option in the government in the environment in question, or it was a basis for a variety of opportunities for corruption. The proposal defines that programmes and projects are of interest to the general public and it is prescribed in Article 34 that the Government, on the proposal of the Association Office, will regulate the criteria, criteria and procedures for the financing and arrangements of programmes and projects of interest for the general good. I believe that this regulation will be of great benefit both to the grantors and to the associations themselves and that consultation with the interested public will also be carried out on its content because there is a mutual interest that these funding conditions are defined as accurately as possible. The importance of the transparent and legal spending of money from public sources is described in the report of the Office of Administration on the financing of projects of civil society organisations from public sources in 2011 which says that these organisations were allocated a billion 655 million kuna, one third at national level, and two thirds at regional or local level, which is not really a small amount. The provisions on the management of associations are also more specific on how to call the Assembly of the Association after the term of office of the Governing Body, which has often been known to block the activities of the associations so far. I would like to commend the inclusion of provisions that regulate the status changes of associations that we often witness on the ground, and in particular a shortened procedure for the termination of the association's existence, as this will avoid a rather complex winding-up process while at the same time ensuring guarantees for the possible obligations of the association. Although the minimum penalties for infringements have been increased, and the misdemeanor reasons extended, I personally advocate that the provision of Article 35(2) should also be classified as a violation of the law. where the funds from public sources are not used in accordance with the contract concluded as this would further increase the responsibility of the association for the purpose of spending them. Finally, it would also welcome the growth of the section of the ministry for a very detailed and exhaustive analysis of a number of inputs in the consultation process with the public interest and the adoption of a large number of suggestions and proposals. Many of the participants involved best say how important this issue is and how important it is to adopt this law that needs to be supported in my view because its regulations will introduce more order in the work of the association to contribute to more meaningful spending of public funds and to increase what I think is very important citizens' trust in the work of associations and the need to finance their programmes from public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53699	Thank you. The word is now being given to a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with Associates. So here we are, in front of a very filled assembly, discussing a law that unfortunately no one has mentioned today, tangs several hundred thousand of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who, in this way, are committed to the general good for raising the quality of life and helping their fellow citizens to give up for many hours and days practically taking both time and money to their family is dedicated to this kind of voluntary engagement, and perhaps the intention of this law is precisely to help these people in a certain way and to move them from those murky waters that they often push them into because perhaps those who most delight in the nation and most of all raise the nation, and most often are in doing so in negative things are shown to our athletes because you will admit that no one is able to raise and unite the nation as they are when they achieve great success. But when a variety of political bickering is done, then everyone looks only at the top, and forgets the hard, strong voluntary work, the effort of the series, a series of people by the Republic who have even put in a position to have some top athletes today so that they become one. So, by doing so, allow me just a few remarks because I think that this law should in principle solve the organisational form in principle and that associations must implement what they have to have, and then the resolution ministries would, depending on which one association does with the rules, whether the specific laws clearly determine the rules of the game that they must behave for the simple reason that, with this strong voluntary work given to the citizens of the Republic, they also use the great tax resources of taxpayers, so that is over a billion and a half kuna, and that is certainly not negligible and logical thing is that it should be arranged in the right way that these coins are quality, and when you look at most of the cases there are no colleagues or colleagues who are not involved in any society. And when you look at how hard it is to get money for the functioning of these societies, then you know that basically if you're at the head of such an association that you're the biggest beggar in this country because you just have to ask someone to give or someone swear that this association can function or at sports clubs to buy some kind of uniform or cultural and artistic society to give you some money for folk costumes, so a number of things. And then the logical thing is that everyone is interested in it because eventually there are political points if you attack someone well, so someone accepts it, etc. But what Article 9, says is that the activities of the association are based on the principle of nonprofit. And that's now the first problem that can later be passed through this whole law. Is it some kind of low-class football, basketball, handball club or any other if you raise some super kid talented and someone offers him football today is the most normal thing a million or two dollars, see how small Halilović is now only 17 years old, is it profit or non-profit activity? That's a big question first. Whether this association that has such a player sells it because when you look at the Value Added Tax Act, most of it is over 230 thousand must be in the VAT system. So there's no way you can, you can't, like this, like that. So he needs to pay VAT on it right now. Because the question will be whether it is profitable or non-profit activity. At the same time at the top of this roof organization you have sports clubs which are most of them, three or four are purely professional institutions that operate on the principles that most clubs in the European Union do, unfortunately it is not legally settled. And just because it's not legally solved opens up a lot of opportunities for abuse. Therefore, this Article 9 must simply be defined in a different way. Associations are therefore non-profit organizations but they can deal with this or that. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The association does not have the right to share the assets of the association with its founders, members of associations, persons authorised for representation and employees or associated persons.". Now, look, if you are talking about profit and if you are talking about the end of the year that you have won the congregation’s decision, your financial report, that congregation may also decide to share that profit among members of the congregation. If you adhere strictly to the Law on Commercial Companies and the Tax on Profit. Because you say and I'll say something later, so you have that income portion of the association's activities lead to special accounting. But about that a little later. At the same time, Article 32(2) states that if the funds achieved in such a way are to be used exclusively for the achievement of the objectives set out by the association or if the company established by that association and established for the sake of economic activity achieves a surplus of revenue above... , it must be used exclusively to achieve the objectives set out in the Statute of the Association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you founded him to deal with a certain economic activity. If he has achieved profit, he must therefore transfer all the profits to the founders, or if the founder makes a decision that because of the possible expansion of the business etc., part of the gain is kept in that company, they will continue to work with it but if the profits are transferred to the founder and that is, the association then these money can only be used to finance public work... Associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it just has to be explained differently because this definition unfortunately opens up, you get some maherra that will simply interpret it in its own way,... Some kind of money and then we're having an affair. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who's gonna get hurt? Those poor people who are going to suffer... Kids or someone else who's in that gang. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this vaguely defined provision of the law leads us to it. So maybe it's better... the definition because, at the end of the year, the Company Act defines what the founders are, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A simple association when it makes a decision on the establishment of a company then, in its decision on the establishment of a company, then, in its decision on the establishment of a company, it must define why it is founded, and this is what is in Article 52, which I think is so undefined, very dangerous and excessive. The Article 35's now contains these provisions that go further, which are, in fact, duplicated with certain provisions. We in the Budget Law have clearly defined that all budgetary users and all those who receive money whether from the state budget or from the units of local self-government are simply obliged to submit a report to the one who gave them the money, why they spent that money is defined by the Budget Act. It might be better to talk about this part to apply the provisions of the Budget Law to them. And then you solved that problem. So that ministry no matter how much they receive these funds, it monitors all these associations to deliver a report to him. So his report on the use of those funds, not the financial report, that's the second. It is therefore necessary to maintain separate tax, accounting records in accordance with Article 36 of the Associations that carry out the economic activity. Now there's something else you've gone to because you're practically legally defining that associations are obliged to run bookkeeping according to the Law on Non-profit Organizations. And you are now telling them in this provision that in principle they are running double accounting, which is totally unnecessary. They analytically if they run special accounting for that economic activity they have the exact difference between income and expenditure and pay taxes on it... In accordance with the Tax on Profits Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you have this vague definition then you're basically telling them that they have to lead, they have to have two gyrocalcs and they have to run separate accounting. Because you can't run two double bookkeeping on one jury account. You can run them analytically but since they're different then you can't lead them separately. And part of the profits obtained from carrying out economic activities are taxed in accordance with tax regulations. This is clearly defined by the Tax on Profits Act. Therefore, non-profit organisations engaged in economic activity which is present on the market for that part of the profits, which makes them a total of 50% of the income. On that part of the profits achieved, they pay the profit tax. So this is defined by both the Law and the Rules of Tax on Profit. So try to figure it out somehow that you have a clearer definition. And now the merger and separation of associations. Here you have with all the practical articles except for one. So you define that associations that, therefore, define their assets. However, if there is a merger and separation, you have both property and obligation. So you have to treat each other the same way, because those obligations are to each other. Who, who's gonna have this guy tomorrow looking for his claims if you haven't defined the one who's... whether or not it is in the event of a disassembly or in the case of a merger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the supervision of the financial operations of associations and the submission of prescribed financial reports is carried out by the Ministry of Finance, which must be clearly defined as being the tax administration. Not the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance has several institutions. After all, you also have an office that runs the register of associations, however, the control of financial documents as well as of all non-profits, which is defined by the Law on Non-profit Organisations, is therefore governed by the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. So, Mr. Minister, since my time is running out, just Mr. Vice President, let me just have one brief, one sentence. Article 50 [[Let's say another sentence.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in article 50, you unfortunately defined everything as ideal. This law is passed because of those little spills that work incorrectly. Thus, this article 50 cannot be as ideal as you wrote it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53701	Please. The word is now received by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. So here is a law that defines a lot of things and that in a lot of segments will better define associations and I would say that out of those 50,000 associations that we mention today, 47 as far as I know there are, only 21500 associations are enrolled in the Register of Non-profit Organisations and those that are obliged to the Ministry of Finance to submit their reports is 12500 associations. That's what's in the field. And given the number of non-registered associations, they don't file reports, there's a real possibility of large manipulations. Therefore, my proposal today is also in the replica that the minimum number be 10 founders of the association is one real drive to put together founders and associations, so that the democratic censorship is satisfied, so that what is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the right to freedom of association, but also the control and freedom of association defined through the bodies of these associations, and the bodies of the association are the Presidency, the Supervisory Board, the Court of Honor, the Assembly. It's four bodies that work. Three people certainly can't be all those bodies, can't control or manage or be honest with all of it, and I suggest that really this law that's in the first reading be introduced a minimum number of 10 and democratic standards and everything else will be met and the civil rights conventions will all be ideal. And there will be no more registered associations, it will certainly work better, fairer, more honest, more transparent and more honorable. That's what I noticed, and I'm sure it wasn't good in the law so far. Three people do not contain a democratic segment of one that would seem to be able to monitor one another, that the congregation can function, that all bodies can be selected. Three people can't pick all those bodies. The Statute defines certain provisions that are certain, the statutes bear both legal and constitutional provisions and all that is necessary and defines the work of the association, transparency and its content. And now that we see that Article 31 of the Association can have its own assets only to achieve the objectives of certain statutes of the association, the following article already states that the association does not have the right to share the assets of the association with its founders, members of the association, persons authorised to represent employees or associated persons. I would leave there those who are authorized if they couldn't be shared, employees and those tied up, too, but the founders and the members would leave it out. Because in the statutes, there are opportunities when we work with our members who need to see whether social assistance, whether legal assistance at given times, especially with defenders who are suspected or threatened, and who do not have the opportunity to defend themselves, and we in our programs achieve certain means by auctions of images that artists themselves make, disabled or defenders and help in this way. I think that it should consider well how it might be possible if the statute is regulated, however, it is not property, but it is defined as money that the association has acquired through the payment of membership fees to voluntary contributions, gifts, funds that the association acquires by carrying out activities that achieve the objectives carried out in accordance with Article 32 of this Law. I'd just put it there to exclude members because that's why they joined together to have legal and social assistance. That's why they exist. That's why they're in need. It's their obligation from the statutes. And what I want to say is, programs and projects of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in Article 33, and then in its paragraph 4, activities of interest for the general good are considered particularly activities of associations which, so I would put there to include associations that promote the values of the Homeland War, care for the victims of the Homeland War, so I would put in brackets which they are. These were killed, imprisoned, missing, disabled and their families, as in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Standing. It would then further add to the upgrade that the contributions to the protection and promotion of human rights, the protection and promotion of the rights of national minorities and everything else because defenders such as this category were also placed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it would be nice to have them in the first place in this article of the law. Here I am asking you ministers and associates to put it on, that it will certainly help with definitions and then legal status and the Homeland War and the defenders and the victims themselves. In the following order, it is good to say that I can't deal with and... parties, support parties, candidates etc., it is well defined and I don't think there is any grudge. What is clearly stated in this proposal of the law, that criteria and criteria, financing procedures, contracting programmes and projects of interest to the general good implemented by associations. It is clear today, most associations report on state tenders from the ministries or bodies of state authorities that have revenues and are thus financed. They also justify funds towards them, implementing programmes and projects, calling on state institutions to be present, ministers and all others to monitor events that are of interest and membership and all those who use these funds, as well as society as a whole. And that's clearly what I'm saying. We hope that there will be no significant change in standards, criteria because a lot of them have already been reduced through this crisis and recession of funds to associations. Good thing, I know there are a lot of NGOs who also have huge resources at their disposal. But they are also transparently visible when a report on the work of NGOs is submitted. You can see clearly how much he's earning. Only a lot of them are not available on the websites you can see how both the spending page is covered or how they are spent. All in all, I want to point out that associations are good for this society. They are really gathering various populations and their functioning will certainly contribute to this law even better, better quality, more transparent work with these requests that I have made sure that this will improve work, reduce probably the number of associations not to endanger someone's right to association but to make anything more democratic, the better, more transparent. And believe this minimum number of 10 members as well as cooperatives established cannot be a smaller number, so it should also be for associations to be similar and to have their own bodies, not to be in one person and president, and in two other persons a congregation that will decide on all activities of the association, on programmes, on spending funds or on justing funds etc. I believe that you understand that what I'm saying is really to improve this legislative proposal that will certainly help to be quality and transparent, to be democratically clear and precise and way of spending resources, income, governance and supervision. Because you've put yourself under internal surveillance by the supervisory authorities of the association, so it would be good if they had at least more members so that they could be independent supervision in their organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53703	This debate is being replicated by Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53704	Thank you very much. Col. Djakic, you have rightly pointed out that the number of three whether citizens whether three associations or three legal entities can form an association suggests that such a founded association is established from can be said in most cases, unfortunately quite strange initiatives, so I will not say low initiatives. Because what's the point of establishing an association when you can't form the bodies of that association. So the logical thing is if you get the funds and you have the resources, if you bring in certain acts that you have the Supervisory Board that monitors whether that association does it. It is also logical that this association is managed by some executive committee, etc. So, if it's not going to duplicate in function, it's at least a dozen people that can do all the jobs that the association is set up for. And another thing that should be said about this law is that all those financed from the budget, regardless of whether they are regional, regional self-government units or whether it is a state budget unless they deliver a report on the implementation of the programme and on the spending of the funds, let's say 31 March of the current year for the previous year, that they are automatically deprived of funds from the budget and that the process is launched by the Ministry of Deleting Such Associations. It's something that's a normal thing, because whoever's seriously working, who's responsible for doing it is in his best interest to file a report and can apply to far greater and better resources next year. In this way, those who exist only for some pointless reason are not being eliminated because of why taxpayers' money is given to them, and then it will certainly not happen to us that practically half of the associations do not submit a report. Because I remember when I sent an NGO on the basis of the application of certain inspections, because it was a long time ago in 2005 that I was crucified. However, when the inspection had completed the job, it was very well shown how justified it was. Therefore, if we love, I apologize. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53705	Here's a reply to the replica by Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53706	However, more people associated will surely care and care better than three. That's for sure. To date, certain associations also submit reports regularly and without the report submitted, the justifications of the funds no use of new ones, no applications for new projects, no possibility of participating in the competition and to obtain funds. It's defined today for some associations. It's probably not even true for some today, so it's a good thing we have it in our law. But I'm saying that bodies would be established in each association must be a sufficient number of members, and that's at least 10, at least 10 people. They control each other always very well and much better maybe than outside houses or ministries or inspections or something. Many times it comes to the truth before anyone else finds out within the organization when the Supervisory Board is working properly, and especially if the Court of Honor accepts certain applications, it certainly considers them and brings its independent court to see whether someone has worked properly, acted or wronged the statute of law or the Rules of Procedure on the work of the association. I think we should definitely think about it and that it's very good to put at least 10 minimum members so that they can start an association.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53707	The debate will now be held by representative Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53708	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my few thoughts on the occasion here's the Association Act. Data on 50,000 associations of which 21 and a half thousand enrolled in the register of non-profit organisations already indicate a problem in the work of associations. We've heard that a few times already. The new bill allows clearing up problems related to the establishment, registration and functioning of associations. The numbers were spoken of by the predecessors. The papers proposed will certainly help in many ways to further establish, work and operate associations, the activities of the Alliance of Associations, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development and facilitate the implementation of the National Strategy for Civil Society Development. Of course, here it is necessary to note the fact that citizens' associations actually represent the work of civil society. The greater the level of civil society's action, the stronger democracy in society. But other than freedom, association here is an important fact of financing associations. In my view, it is irrelevant how many founders of the association will be because many associations are often mentioned because of the possibility of having three founders, and I agree that there are 10 and as many as necessary, but I don't think that this is the only condition and guarantee that they are provided with security and transparency in the functioning of the association, and we know they are always the means. In fact, I think of the question when the association is no longer an association, or when it begins to be something else in its operation. In fact, associations should be independent and impartial and serve the function of general good. The association must not be a financing policy of interest groups and, of course, that public money must be financed exclusively by the programme, it must be financed exclusively by competition programmes which are in the interest of the public for activities which the association itself deals with as well as the budgetary opportunities. Of course, there is a gap between enrolled associations and active associations. The annual funding for the association is very large. So, given the state level, and I believe at the level of local units, it's always a big fight for everyone when they need to finance associations, any positions of those that actually units of local self-government finance, and of course the state. There is also an important transparency of the allocation of funds at all levels. It is, of course, necessary to provide support to associations in education for the application of EU funding programmes and in as much as possible. The control of the allocations to associations must be continuous and regular in the activities of the associations. It is important that the activities and operations of the association are not allowed to interfere with any authority but to ensure the obligation of the association to comply with the strategy of the activities it deals with, whether sport, culture, science, anything else, in fact all segments of social life. It wasn't about lawyers, it was about pensioners, blood donors, anyone. It is then that continuous supervision of the business is ensured. In addition to its own controls, financial and material control, audits are required, and from the obligation of fiscal responsibility and control for the allocation of public funds, of course and the responsibility of associations for their spending. Now it is precisely this law that is being investigated and puts emphasis on the way these funds are allocated. For example, there are a number of associations that remain mainly sports clubs and cultural and artistic clubs and humanitarian associations, and then all other associations in the field of health activities, cultural heritage protection associations, all possible associations are actually all candidates for obtaining funds from the budget. Of course, they can't be financed enough from that. So if they are given the possibility of economic activity, then they need to be monitored very well. There are positive examples. The biggest doubts are sports associations. If they are associations or companies, the problem is public budget money investment because the status of these organisations is that they get the most allocated budget money in most of them and there is a problem in general financing these activities in view of the needs of clubs, their status which is needed precisely for their functioning. These are huge and large funds that need to be invested in funding exactly such associations. Therefore, for such associations, units of local self-government and, of course, the state budget should cover mostly amateur activities of such activities, so of course not only sport, not just culture, but also be at the same level as all other associations. Of course, that's where athletes, cultural professionals are born, so all those who might be celebrating our society in this way and that way mark it. That's true. The fact is, however, that public money can be financed by the one where equal opportunities will be given to all. Later on, it all starts to be professionalism. Of course, organizations always recruit meanings other than athletes and artists and others for whom they actually exist and where these others come from. So, semi-professional or professional cannot be in the field of amateurism and must be made literally the difference where and what needs to start sharing and what needs to go into privatisation in some way and what needs to remain amateural. If that's possible under our terms, that's a different story. Perhaps as part of the solution on sports associations, a highly amateur association should be singled out, and such distinction can and should be done not only for football but for handball and other associations. Of course, it is not my idea to question the status of sports associations, but unlike those associations that deal with what we might call professionalism the quota of funding should be shared for all associations and sports and others. It can easily destabilize the allocation of funds provided for associations, especially in the environments where the community of sports associations is not established or transparently does not function. In this way it happens that a sports association can get more budget money regardless of what, at the same time, another who deals with care, for example. under joint programmes with the local self-government unit, disabled persons develop programmes, apply, benefit from EU funds and employ people from their activities. For example, logos, assistants for disabled people, etc. And that's an example for me in Article 9 of this law. I do not want, of course, to reduce the importance of any segment dealing with any association. So I think you really need to set a limit when it's something amateur, when it's something for general good, when it's something for young people, and when it starts to be professionalism. In the end, I think it's very difficult to put a common denominator for all associations, whether it's a priority, whether it's the size of the funds, of course, with a valid procedure. In order to satisfy them all, some categorization would be necessary, and it is necessary to define this law for which I understand, I see, and I hope it goes in this direction to actually strengthen the strength of civil society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53709	The replica was reported by Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53710	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Rilje most of the time in your presentation is dedicated to sports associations that have the status of purely amateur and semi-professional and professional. The Kukuriku coalition promised when it came to power that it would resolve the issue and tax or what it would be called from football transfers or the transfer of football players and large millions of amounts that are being realised, so the Law on Sports and the Law on Sports Inspection was passed. And what you've been saying today actually goes in favor of that, but the solution has no or no solution to it. Well, here I don't know you're also one of the representatives of the ruling coalition so I'm interested in your opinion on the resolution of these transfers and the great money that's spinning in these clubs, and they're actually associations and they also belong as the Association of Fishermen, the Association of Lovers of the Hill, the Mountain Association, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53711	A representative cannot ask questions. The questions can be asked to the government, but here we will hear the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53712	Dear colleague Grubisic, here I was just earlier in my presentation saying that you actually need to make a difference and that you can't put everything under the common denominator. Of course one football club as an association of citizens or basketball or any other, it simply has to be singled out. It's not a simple question. We heard that a few times ago. So that's a question deep economics because you're actually doing a category from the association into something that needs to be some kind of company, which is whether or not it's a question right now. Because if someone asks me if it's some third-rate football club from some small place at some point that's going to spend 20% of the corresponding budget I'm telling you that, it can just be. Is that okay with other associations? It's a different story than anything that needs to be done. So when we go to higher levels then of course we also get to higher levels. So the fact is that under the common denominator can't all kinds of associations because the Association of Defense, the Association of Mothers of the Dead Association of Sugars, the association of something you have as many as you want. And here's 120 and something in my place. The fact is, they're not all in the same story. Let's say for example. I'm gonna get you three or four bouncers right away, and they're pulling a lot of funding. I'm not saying it's not okay. It's just a matter of possibilities. Now it's a story where one story begins, and another story continues, which is fine, which is wrong. So is it possible where it starts to be professionalism and where amateurism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53713	Now we'll hear the closing word of the Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In response to the replica, the representative Rilje began to list the names of the associations quite broadly that area and certainly those who are engaged in the study of the universe, deserts, etc. It should be covered by a law that prescribes principles. I think we have made a good proposal for the first reading, and the debate has shown, and those proposals we heard in the debate will be discussed and I believe that we will come with an even better bill for the second reading. These some suggestions regarding sports associations have obviously caused the most attention as much as we will try to better define in the Department of Administration's work. And here I am announcing soon probably in the spring session and the final proposal of the Association Law that we can start implementing it to fix the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53715	I thank the minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53716	Proposal for a law on associations, first reading, P.Z. No. 485. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on associations is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that with 87 votes in favour and 6 votes abstentioned, so most of the votes were reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53717	We move to the next item of the agenda: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2012 by the Advocate General for Gender Equality delivered the report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. You've received the material into the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Advocate for Gender Equality Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53718	Good afternoon, everyone. My respects for Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank you for your patience for staying with us today and for saying that we will have an interesting debate here on this report, and I am saddened by the fact that here are the other MPs and MPs will not discuss this valuable subject which is unfortunately perceived not as the constitutional value of gender equality but rather as a question of women's human rights. So before you there is a 10th annual report by the Ombudsman institution for gender equality for 2012 and as each year we have followed the implementation of laws, regulations, strategies, action plans related to the promotion of gender equality, thus achieving a proactive approach with state bodies, public institutions, trade societies, international regional organisations, civil society organisations and media. During 2012, we worked on 1514 cases, representing an increase of 8.8% compared to 2011 due to the higher presence of the Ombudsman's institution at local level where in 13 counties I talked about certain projects, participated in certain round tables, public discussions, workshops increased consequently and the number of complaints so as to talk about an increase of more than 19.5% compared to 2011. And leading again to an increase in the number of cases of discrimination identified. Furthermore, statistics show that the most complained of sexual discrimination was almost 80% of the cases and the largest number of complaints and the largest number of female discrimination was found, almost two-thirds. I must say, in the context of modest human capacities, the human resources of the Ombudsman institution have been employed by me by only nine employees and employees. We have succeeded with all the analyses that you have in the report on page 271 to do and 7 independent research. Last year 2011, there were 5, 2012. Seven. I will mention briefly, everyone refers to the areas that have been given to us by law to jurisdiction, or mandate. Research on the frequency of anti-discrimination cases in court practice, research on the situation of pregnant women and mothers with young children on the labour market. Two studies related to representation, the position of women in the media as well as the participation of experts on Croatian television. Then apply the safeguards prescribed by the Family Protection Act and... The approach in the textbooks of ethics and textbooks of religious content in all three religious communities is 32 textbooks for primary and secondary schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Still in 2012 we continued to monitor the court proceedings in which we joined as... the basis of the Law on the Elimination of Discrimination of 6 Old Cases and in 2012 two new court proceedings in which we were involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2012, we sent almost 300 written proposals, 133 warnings, 132 recommendations. We've initiated two criminal charges against the unknown perpetrators of the Facebook group for hate speech through the computer system. Have we initiated an initiative to amend a law in the family violence section, in the part relating to the enforcement of the precautionary measure, the restraining order of the person, etc., to initiate an amendment to a sublegal act, more specifically the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, where we have asked that in Article 129. The Rules of Procedure, with the right of all MPs, representatives clubs, the bodies of the Parliament and the Government, who may propose certain amendments to the law, shall also be authorised by all special lawyers if they have such powers under their own law, special law. In addition to all the above, 244 times came out in public, cautioned through the media about the occurrences of discrimination, including public statements. I must say that because of the limited financial resources and each year of cutting these financial resources, we have established a strategy to apply with different projects to the embassies in the Republic of Croatia so that we have received two projects of funding from the British, French Embassy. And we also recognized that certain activities, if they want to be consistently implemented in full swing, require full scope and apply to... The European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We signed up for 2012 for... The European Commission in the field of equal representation of men and women in companies worth 205,000 euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I can say that in 2013, we have been approved of this project and it will take two years for you to witness soon in the Assembly on the activities planned to be carried out. The activities that certainly marked the work of the Ombudsman institutions last year can be grouped through five areas. The area of work and employment is precisely the area in which the institution highlighted and made a visible one trend discriminatory towards pregnant women by a public institution, by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and another activity that was covered by a broad sample of women, pregnant women, women with young children who were first conducted in Croatia who showed us that women are discriminated against by the basis of pregnancy, the basis of motherhood. In the area of protection of family rights, we have carried out a number of activities, recognizable activities related to the achievement of parental care of our fathers because in most of our fathers we are complaining as damaged persons in 70% of the cases when it comes to parental care centres and before judicial authorities, and when I visited the social care centres in 11 counties and talked to them about the importance of promoting the principle of gender equality in parenting and parental roles. In the area of domestic violence, and I will mention the lawyer's initiative to work on the education of police officers and officials in order to be gender-sensitive in cases of domestic violence to identify who the victim is, how to treat the victim, and in particular that they are relatively sensitive to the collateral victim, which is children. We made a deal with the Police Academy. Last year, 18 educational workshops were conducted. In the media area, we went one step further. In addition to sending numerous complaints, warnings to the media, according to commercial televisions to internet portals, etc., and we have held a workshop with editors and editors of Croatian TV and Croatian Radio and this co-operation of joint education continues this year, and in a legislative sense, our large engagement in the field of regulation of the legislative framework for the protection of the rights of sexual and natural minorities, so regulation of the life partnership and resolving legal problems, access to the health services of transgender persons. If we are talking about five areas where we have received the most complaints, it is certainly because of the economic situation, the turbulence of the labour market where daily job is lost, both men and women is a field of work, employment, social security, health, pension system, and almost 58.5% of cases of complaints arrive. Men and women also complain, however, women in 62.5% of cases. The cases considered show further unfavourable behaviour and the unfavourable position of women on the labour market. It increases drastically from year to year the conclusion of a work contract at a certain time, and analyses by the Croatian Employment Service show that women continue to receive 11% less pay than men. Women make up the majority in just 7 out of 19 areas of activity, and the number of sexual harassment complaints is increasing, 42 commas are a few percent of the cases, and mostly women complain. Recognizing this problem of sexual harassment in the workplace and various aspects of blackmail, shagging and creating a negative working environment both by the employer and the superiors, we have made one campaign with women union organisations, we have issued a guide to recognise sexual harassment and discrimination at the workplace, aimed at the education of union commissioners and commissioners and their lawyers and lawyers. Educations are carried out in their branches at the level of all Croatia and we believe that it is an extremely important and well-accompanied activity that would not be possible without the financial support of the French Embassy. We pointed to the position of a particularly sensitive social group within the female population. It was by means of a proactive approach that we succeeded in talking to the competent authorities of the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, pointing to discriminatory practice towards pregnant women and I can say that the outcome has already been seen in 2013. This is how we defend this report quite late, the results or facts show that in 2013 we no longer had a complaint from any pregnant woman who pointed to the discriminatory practice of HZZO. By conducting a study on discrimination against women on the labour market on the basis of pregnancy and motherhood, it showed alarming data that women at the time when they become pregnant or if they return from maternity leave, if they have young children most often face an end to working relationship in 55.3% whether they are being cancelled for some other reason, whether it is the termination of a work contract for a certain period of time. In 2013, we didn't stop for research. The research only provides a basis for further activities that we are currently carrying out with state inspection, women's union organisation and the Croatian Employment Service. Every complaint made by citizens and citizens about domestic violence comes with special attention. Police Directorate's data show that the number of perpetrators involved in domestic violence in some downfall is 2.1%. The victims of domestic violence move in the same way every year as cca 20, 22,000 victims. Women are mainly victims of domestic violence in 63% of cases, however, in the prosecutor's institution and the number of complaints is not in decline but is in the upcoming line. I'll remind you of the apparent increase in family murders. 12 women were killed and killed by male family members. If we look at the statistics on the share of murder in the family compared to the number of total murders, you'll see that it's a big increase. In 2012, 53% of women killed by family members, 2011 was less than 40%. Economic violence continues to exist, but not all of its forms are recognized. Data from our research on the application of safeguards prescribed by the Law on Protection against Family Violence on a sample of 500 enforceable misdemeanors. So, which we have processed at the Criminal Court in Zagreb as the largest Criminal Court. They have shown that only 10% of the infringement measures are imposed in courts compared to the proposed measures. In other forms of violence against women in public acts, we have advocated improving the position and protection of women who were victims of sexual violence in the war. Although it is a problem from the State's Attorney's Office, we are in contact with them as we are in contact with the Ministry of Defence who are working on a new national legislative framework that regulates the status and position of victims, all victims of sexual violence in the war. This 2012 report, as well as the 2011 Report, almost identically indicates that the national legislative framework does not satisfy the requirements of legal protection of gender and gender minorities, especially if we look at the trend and legal regulation of the Council of Europe, the European legal framework and European judicial practice, so here we are still on that line that the issue of the same-sex community must be addressed in an adequate way, and in public statements we pointed to all forms of homophobic flows, the ban on homophobic acts and hate speech. As regards hate speech, further progress has been made by the police in raising awareness of the importance of timely and effective countering hate crime against persons of same-sex orientation. I will mention that in these 10 years, this is the first report that first speaks about people of social groups who are at risk of multiple discrimination. It is particularly sensitive social groups, hence women who are in rural areas of women addicts, women infected with HIV, women with disabilities and women in prostitution. We believe that there are social groups at risk of increased poverty, increased violence, increased economic dependence either on partners, either from their families and of course subject to gender stereotypes and stigmatisation. I have to say that we monitor the media every year, we run analysis and research every year, we write warnings and portals and televisions and about various commercial campaigns under the so-called. funny content that promotes sexism. I must say that 18 years after the adoption of the Beijing Platform and 9 years after the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality Unfortunately, the media continue to perpetuate sexual stereotypes, package sexism under funny content and simply through media regulation there is a great misunderstanding about how harmful it is to not understand gender equality and how harmful it is to publicly show women, and to a lesser extent men in an inappropriate and unworthy way that we meet daily in all forms of media. Last year, a space for the integration of content related to the area of work of the Ombudsman institution opened up in the field of education. So we did two big researches, we analyzed the textbooks of ethics, 9 of them, and we analyzed 32 textbooks of religious content for the primary and secondary schools of three religious communities. We pointed out the discriminatory content of the ethics textbooks. That's about 9% of the books on religious content twenty percent. It's about textbooks that are out of date because they've been in use for 10 years. So they were adopted and created before the national legislation since 2003, which speaks about the policy of achieving the principle of gender equality that we have pointed to and we are involved in the working group of the Resoring Ministry, the review of all textbooks. Based on an analysis of women and men's representation in education, I point out one problem of male sub-representation in the education process. For the last three years, we are still warning about 1% of the male breeders which certainly does not contribute to achieving the principle of gender equality, the Law on Gender Equality, and does not give this equal importance and equal role in raising children both by the role of fathers, by the role of mothers equal representation of men and women who certainly have a richer input on the development of our children. Women are still under-represented in the field of political participation whether it is about including the candidate lists, whether it is about representing the party, whether it is about final election results. If time allows, I'd like to mention court practice. So, the research we've conducted on case-law regarding anti-discrimination cases, so I'm just going to say a few specifics that talk about how, after the adoption of the 2008 Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, what it looks like at a practical level through our trial. So, the number of court proceedings for discrimination is still unclear, rising. Our Croatian judiciary slowly recognises the laws on combating discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality. However, we have one imbalance in statistics if we talk about the fact that sexual discrimination is most important in society ahead of us. In this area, we do not have a relatively high percentage of anti-discrimination suits relating to sexual discrimination in relation to discrimination based on sexual orientation where greater participation in anti-discrimination procedures is observed which certainly has to do with the activation of NGOs, organisations which, with the participation of lawyers, work hard to protect the rights of their members. I will mention that we have been doing an analysis of the anti-discrimination procedures in Zagreb, Rijeka, Varazdin, Osijek, Dubrovnik. Of all these courts, no anti-discrimination proceedings are conducted before the Municipal and County Court in Osijek, which certainly does not speak about the fact that there is no discrimination in Osijek and in Osijek-Baranja County, and the same situation is also the case in Dubrovnik at the Municipal Court and the County is conducted for discrimination, but there is no precise basis for discrimination which is also one of the problems. Not to say that indirect discrimination is clearly misrecognizable, there are almost no such cases and the same situation is before the prosecutor's institution for gender equality. In the end, I would conclude that according to the complaints of citizens and citizens, we have carried out our analysis, research and thus highlighted 35 recommendations in 12 areas that we have managed to process through the report. We believe and expect that in addition to our proactive approach and the orientation of these recommendations to competent resolution bodies, public institutions, universities, academias, that political will will be achieved and that the government will consider these recommendations as well as this Croatian Assembly and that only together at these levels can we succeed in achieving the constitutional value of the Republic of Croatia in terms of promoting and representing the principle of gender equality. I thank you, and here I am prepared to answer all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53719	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague of Gordana Sobol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53720	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's not much of us, it's not that late. First of all, it is obvious from this report by the Ombudsman, and it seems to me in one part of it, and particularly stressed that in fact the 10-year period of application of anti-discrimination laws shows that they themselves are not guaranteed, or are not sufficient to remove inequalities when it comes to the position of women and men in our society. Gender equality means that men and women are equally present in all areas of public and private life, thus equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. And when we study the Attorney General's report, I think we can make a single conclusion that we're actually still in most areas far from it. So, at the very beginning, I want to say on behalf of the SDP Club that we will support the Attorney General's report for last year. We consider it extremely high-quality, with a lot of data, analysis, and we would say that a great deal of effort has been put in behind all of this, and the attorney general and all of her associates. And it seems to us that, in fact, now that it's actually the first one to be such a complete report, it's precisely how the new lawyer is going to feel that one progress in the work of the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality. As for last year, I would say this way that regardless of the shifts we tried to make different legal changes and changes, regardless of what I don't know here, I will remind you last year we had a new Law on Medical Aided Insemination, we had in the educational and educational process of introducing both health education and civic education which are essentially essential for achieving gender equality, i.e. equality of women and men in Croatia. We had several amendments and additions and the Law on Employment Mediation and Rights during Employment. If you remember then somewhere at the beginning of last year we allowed the right to compensation on HZZO women who were suspended in that part until they retired. In the meantime, we passed and amended the Employment Encouragement Act. I will remind myself of the much greater possibilities of seasonal employment, the use of vouchers, especially significant in agricultural employment in family farms where it is possible to make up to 90 days of internships annually. So, new active employment measures, etc., etc. I started with exactly these kind of employment measures because of what we have in the attorney general's report, I'd be focusing on several areas. One of them is certainly the labour market. And what is particularly worrying, which also points out, is that at work is an extremely low rate of women's work activity in Croatia, which is only 39.1% and such a low level of activity warns the Ombudsman is multiplely problematic. Thus, the economic dependence of women on men increases, and we return to the head of the family. Women are at increased risk of poverty especially at an older age. The more women stay in households to take care of children and families exclusively supports further and deepens the stereotype of who is responsible for these jobs that are actually socially useful and responsible and not paid. It also leads to a decrease in competition, but also a loss of human potential for the Croatian market itself. And finally, this low rate of activity of the majority of the population, these are women, has a significant impact on the overall employment rate of 38.6% in Croatia last year, 44.4% in men and 33.4% in women. The consequence is this, unfortunately, we consider it from the SDP club and the process from our closer past, when it is done either way by Professor Linert Novosel in one of his work reternating to traditional family life patterns. As always in the history of human society whenever the difficulties of economic or population nature occurred, society found solutions by changing the primary position and role of women as a way and solving the problems that arised. Women are also more educated in Croatia today, and harder employed, less paid, and also exposed to horizontal and vertical gender segregation. On average, 10% less than men are paid on the Croatian labour market for the same value, while at the best paid activity in finance and insurance account for 70% of all employees, and they receive only 70% of the salary of men from this activity, as it relates to which positions they occupy, those low and lower paid. Gender segregation on the labour market still has its vertical dimension. The Ombudsman cites that for 2012 the sub-representation of women in business management bodies in companies without major changes back several years and in fact did not detest data that last year there were 335 or 82.72% of male management members or 70 or 17.2% of female management members, with 170 of them who were analysed had no female member of the administration. Of the 1004 board members, there were only 190 or 18.9% of women. And then somehow as science fiction sounds to me today I found that there was a proposal from the Committee on Women's Rights and the Committee on the Legal Affairs of the EU Parliament that by 2020 a 40% number of women should be reached in advisory roles in company administrations, and that percentage should be reached by 2018. And they say if they don't, they'll have to argue with the reasons, and the punishment can be, for example, the punishment. Exclusion from tendering for public procurement. Given that we are now an EU member, I am really interested in how and how Croatia will be able to achieve this. Furthermore, I must warn you, a few days ago, we were marking World Country Women's Day, World Women's Day in the Village, which is the village's population, so the attorney general has a lot to do with the issues of rural women's issues. Last year, the big research that was conducted came out, and I think that as far as Croatia is concerned, it is very important to pay close attention to women in these areas, because Croatia is over 90% classified as a rural area, and 88.7% is located in rural areas. And when we look at the way women perceive themselves in these environments, it actually shows how deeply patriarchal we are as a society and in this regard to women in the country, because they themselves say 76% think that we are an extremely patriarchal society to see this most in the division of business into men and women, in insufficient evaluation of women's work in everyday life, and that it starts from the very beginning through education and education of boys and girls. He says business in the economy is shared with men, and men only fix household appliances and pay bills, according to women in the survey. They themselves spend 10 to 12 hours working on the economy, and 6 to 8 hours working in the house. They think that they should devote their spare time to themselves, that they should be financially independent of their partner, that they should decide on a common lordship and be active in the local community. I'd say they think the same way women do in town. But I would especially like to mention one of the biggest problems that we consider when women are involved in the labour market, which is the relationship with who needs to take care of children, this insufficient distribution of the burden of raising children and jobs in the house that is still so deeply rooted, it is seen, and even though in the last few years several times we have changed the Law on maternity and parental support so small a movement that in all these forms of using these leaves over 97% still make women. It is then returned to us in that section that you specifically apostropheed when it comes to whether a woman or a man is going to get parental care over a child because it shows that over 85% of women are given parental care. So somewhere it's rooted in society that it's a job and that's something that's normal I guess it's given to women and they get that parental care. About domestic violence. I don't feel too much about it, the D.A. pointed out a few data but we claim on behalf of the SDP Club we still suffer from lack of education at all levels. Cases when they happen, the most difficult cases are the result of some failure because someone has not yet been trained to recognize what is, for example, mental and economic violence. in some family or something. Of course, we are also meeting with insufficient resources, and I am very much in favour of us at the SDP Club to try, so find as much resources as possible and for the part that applies, the part that applies as a measure of psychic, therefore rehabilitation or how to, now I am... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Psychological treatment, thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, psychosocial treatment because all the research shows that it produced good results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I also think it's time for local communities to play a role in caring for victims of violence to finally rise to a higher level because they can be very helpful in the part where women and children come out of safe houses and so forth. When we talk about violence, I think we should mention here a shift that we've made, which is why, we've come across an open door when it comes to solving issues, the problems of women raped in the war. So, even during last year, it continued this year in the cooperation of different institutions, including the UNDP, and we expect everyone to have a bill of law that will deal with this problem at the beginning of next year, how and how to damage women who were thus injured in the war and the Croatian state dared to say 20 years closed their eyes to this problem. And once I've already said it from this pay phone, it seems to me that it's a disgrace to all the structures in this country, because it's women who have repeatedly given statements to different institutions in the MUP, in the state's attorneys, etc., and the paper they've stayed in the drawer, they've always had to make statements over and over again. And here I believe we're on our way to that part, to sort it out. And finally, just a few sentences related to the media problem, i.e. the attorney-general, specifically processed 9 Internet portals for the past year. I will read two three sentences from your conclusion that came from a qualitative analysis of research, which is that the general impression is based on a number of concrete examples, that women primarily appreciate youth, appearance and degree of nakedness. For portals, as well as for visitors, women's pages are identified with the female body and sexual attributes that try to catch the camera, highlighted by zooming out so as not to pass undetected, etc., etc. I only pulled two sentences. But Internet portals are extremely important. We believe at the club that they are extremely influential and welcome it seems to me that your decision to file a criminal complaint against this case is therefore related to the case from Vinkovaca. This re-attack on women, on young girls. [[Intruder: Time.]] And here, therefore, for including this, believing that this year will bring at least a part of the improvement related in the legislative sense we support this report of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53721	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected counterpart Martina Banic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53722	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The process of growing up also includes learning roles in a particular social environment means being a woman, a man, a girl, a young man, a mother or a father. The family is a space of understanding and acceptance, learning and rejection, space of resistance and violence, rights and responsibilities, space of change and space for change. Family socialization reflects and transfers of values of dominant culture. When raising their children, parents follow the instructions and models that result from their own socialization and that meet the expectations of communities and societies in which they live. During our childhood, we take over those ways and patterns of behavior that will make us remember as part of the social community we belong to. The takeover or refusal of socially acceptable behaviour also contains adequate rewards or penalties. All of us are actively involved in explaining, selecting the rules and standards of behavior offered by parents, friends, friends, religion, media, market law, art, etc. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women contains a definition of the term of discrimination against Women, which marks any difference, exclusion or gender-based restriction, which is the consequence or purpose of jeopardising or disabling the recognition, enjoyment or use of human rights and fundamental freedoms in politics, economic, social, cultural, civil or other areas regardless of their marital status, on the basis of equality between men and women. It is important to note that this definition covers direct and indirect discrimination. In a legal sense, the Republic of Croatia only defined discrimination in 2003 under the Law on Gender Equality and this definition was extended to both sexes. Discrimination represents any normative, direct or indirect distinction, exclusion or gender-based restriction that makes it difficult or negates equal recognition, enjoyment or achievement of human rights for men and women. Also in political, educational, economic, social, cultural, civic and every other area of life. The existence of discrimination against women can also be supported by different statistics. The existence of relevant statistical data is a prerequisite for identifying the position of women in different areas of social life and thus for identifying measures affecting that situation. The problem is that in some important areas there are still no gender-determined data in Croatia. According to UN statistics, women perform 67% of the world's work, earn 10% of the world's income, own 1% of the world's assets, make 70% of the world's illiterate, worldwide women earn 20 to 50% less for equal work than men. Of the 1.3 billion people living in total poverty, 70% are women. Women perform between 10% and 20% of directorial and administrative jobs, occupy 10% of seats in parliaments, and 5% of state presidents are women. In the European Union, women do 80% of household jobs even if they are employed outside the house, spend twice as much time on child care as men, for the same job women are paid 25% less than men, 20% of women have experienced some form of gender-related violence, and 98% of victims of domestic violence are women. Women make a significant contribution to the economy through the paid work they perform. Access for women paid for work is crucial to their efforts in achieving economic equality. The paid job of a woman is generally considered less important than male. Women continue to earn significantly less than men and more often occupy lower status jobs and less benefits. When women began to enter the paid workforce, their incomes were considered to be additional incomes from their husbands or fathers and their work was considered to be only an extension of their unpaid work at home. As a result, women’s work has been attributed less monetary value than men’s jobs. Today, the work of a woman remains continuous and systematically underpaid. Women contribute most to the economy by their unpaid work. The economic system also relies on women to do what the paid economy ignores: care about older people, child care, household work, volunteer work, etc. As regards the consideration of the Ombudsman in the field of employment, employment relations and social benefits related to participation in the labour market, a significant difference has been made in the rate of activity between the sexes, which indicates the necessity of much more active regulatory and economic measures to encourage women's involvement in labour markets. According to HZZ, Croatia has one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, and this rate is particularly devastating for women. In 2012, the average employment rate of the population in the Croatian labour market was 38.6%, among men the average employment rate was 44.4%, and among women significantly lower 34.4%. Furthermore, in her report, the Ombudsman also refers to maternity and parental support, education and many other areas, but I would particularly refer to the area of domestic violence. Many women and children still suffer domestic violence, although this report says that domestic violence is in decline. The breakdown of data relating exclusively to domestic abuses shows that in 2012, police reported 17976 perpetrators, or perpetrators of whom were 144444 men and 3532 women. Compared to the previous reporting period, more men and fewer women have been reported to commit domestic violence. An analysis of the crime-related crime of domestic violence revealed and criminalised 489 people for 609 crimes committed, down 30%. In all, 673 persons were damaged by those criminal acts, of which 532 are female, representing a 79% share in the total number of damaged persons. According to the figures, women remain adult or underage, in the majority of victims of domestic violence, while perpetrators of violence are male family members. 79% of people damaged by the crime of domestic violence are women. In order for this debate not to be exclusively women-oriented, I'm going to present a few data that are related to men. Statistics in different countries show that men on average die 7 years earlier than women and resort to suicide three to four times more often. Most homeless people are men, 95% of people who die at work are men, and in 90% of cases, men don't get custody of children after divorce. In the event of a war, it is men who are expected to go into battle and may lose their lives or health. For an equally serious crime, men are on average sentenced to a longer prison sentence than women. My colleagues and colleagues, all the statistics that are available to us must not serve us as something that we list and use as needed. These data are a loud warning that we must not turn our head from a problem that is universal because behind these numbers are people who need help, people who are no different from others, and yet are not in an equal position, are not in a position that belongs to them because that position is denied from those who have no right to do so. Finally, I underline that discrimination on any species is totally unacceptable, inappropriate and that at all levels it is necessary to eradicate it and enable each individual to live in a society of equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53723	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53724	My colleague Martina Banić, you are also younger but 13 years ago it was unthinkable like this and that is why it was the right and the pleasure to listen to you. It was unimaginable to hear from HDZ that someone was speaking individually, let alone in the name of the club in this way about this problem. It is a good gain of Parliament's quality, regardless of what I will not point out here as a SDP club that we were then preceded. Now we've come about that on this verbal level to the same thing. Now she's seen us just because of these common ground fortifications of things, we're no longer at the level of just defining things for definition and moaning over our own destiny. The issue in the European Parliament is already the practice of improving the life of a woman around some of the fundamental initiatives, how to improve its employability in particular. Because of all these rights, this is her economical subordination, her poverty, and she's doing more and more and she's getting smaller. And it's so all over Europe. Hence, what steps to improve such things, or improve the life of a woman. And moaning over the fate of men is certainly our duty. But the solution is why men die more, why they get sick and a whole series of problems that you've listed. The solution is almost as simple as that. Men need to get more private and women more public. In this way, the weight and burden of public life and the grace of the private would be equally placed on the common grace of both men and women, and this is a real interest in the name of the family because many women have suffered what the Ombudsman herself says on behalf of the family, or in a family that is a national disgrace.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53725	The replica matches the respected Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Antičević-Marinović, I am pleased that you have in some way agreed with my debate and perhaps commended her. I would just like to remind myself that HDZ has passed a series of laws – the Law on Discontinuation of Discrimination and, among other things, on women, and when we talk about how much gender equality we can determine that no co-worker nor SDP nor HDZ nor any other party sitting in our Assembly has applied for a debate on gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53727	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, a colleague of Višnja Fortuna signed up, but she's gone, so the club loses the right to discuss this topic. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Sonja König, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53728	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. When a few years ago in a study of children in Finnish kindergarten, they asked what you wanted to be when you grew up, researchers of course received different answers. But what was shown in the analysis was that no boy answered that he wanted to be president. That's the wish only girls showed. When they were later asked why they answered, because in our country, the presidents are women. In other words, what matters is what we see, who we see, and how they teach us. The team is more concerned about the analysis of one, of all the paintings, one analysis of the interest in children's paintings that was made two years ago in Croatia. It was made by Maja Kolega, Ozana Ramljak and Jasna Belamarić and short research results showed that female characters were generally represented in only 22% of the profession, while male characters account for 70% of the total number. The most common professions in which female teachers appear, followed by a nurse. The most common profession of male characters is driver, and then doctor. In only 15% of the main characters, the female character of a particular profession is also the main character. Interests written only in female form, such as ballerinas, cosmetics, librarians, directors, top model etc. It's only 9% of total occupations. In fact, in other words, 76% of the profession occurs only in malehood. In this disproportionate and unrealistic display of women and men, many professions that are dominant but not exclusively male women are completely abandoned. According to the paintings in the world, there are more men than women, and they are more important and interesting than what they do. In this way, pictures as well as other media transmit and continue to transmit stereotypes. She also warned of this by the lawyer for gender equality in the analysis of school textbooks as well as many media. In particular, your attorney's conclusion is concerned about the analysis of women and men's representation in the media. She mentioned this by fellow Sobol as well as the way they are shown, which says I quote from the news reports the situation is getting worse in the media. In the media offices, our Ombudsman points out that there is a great misunderstanding on the extent of the obstacle to achieving gender equality is the way women are publicly shown, and education on gender aspects and principles of gender equality necessary for media workers and employees, and should be systematically implemented at all levels. We, at the HNS Club, absolutely support this attitude and recommendation. In social learning theories, much attention is paid to the possibilities of change. Since the assumption that birth - typed behaviors are being taught can also be changed, and behaviours that are not burdened with birth stereotypes can be learned. So the conclusion is clear. Discriminating content needs to be revised and removed from the picture books and textbooks, but also from all others to say so to the transferor of information or content. Sustainable and systematic education and awareness of the problem can help to reduce prejudice, stereotypes and, of course, discrimination. But it can also be a public speech and a letter. Well, here, for example. almost in all the laws, in every bill we get on our benches or reports we discuss, and in this report, the Ombudsman for gender equality writes the following: "Respecting the importance of knowingly expressing the words and expressions used in the text equally refer to both women and men." And then they're always written in malehood. I don't see any reason, then, that if they apply equally to both male and female, they don't write in the female race or at least write in the same way as men and women. Think of it as a respected attorney, perhaps in the form of some recommendation, perhaps. As regards measures and recommendations during 2012, the Ombudsman sent a total of nearly 600 written warning proposals and recommendations. We especially commend the attorney's office in its proactive approach and on this, and I would like to congratulate on the name of the HNS Club on all employees of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality. The Office conducted 7 independent studies, analysed and followed the implementation of the provisions of laws and other rules relating to gender equality and made more proactive access with the authorities of state and public authorities, civil society organisations and numerous international organisations. The HNS Club will accept the esteemed attorney's office's report. Although gender equality policy for many years has been seen exclusively as a woman’s point of view that women who benefit from equal relations in society are increasingly changing. The benefits shown by the equal participation of both sexes in all spheres of life are increasingly proving by a whole series of research. Almost all those who have explored the correlation of the number of women in the management and supervisory boards of companies and their results show that those companies in whose boards of directors and supervisors have more women have better economic and other results. Harvard investigators claim that women in crisis situations can keep this together, that they are more prone to cooperation and that they make better decisions on the long term. They also point out that departments and companies run by women rarely fail. This can also be a lesson for us in these times of crisis that unfortunately still affect women. While recently the biggest obstacle to women's progress, and thus society as a whole, was sexual discrimination which unfortunately shows this and the prosecutor's report on gender equality still exists, today it is a double burden on women. Women are the ones who often sacrifice their careers because they focus on caring for children, household jobs, and caring for older family members. Such a outcome is largely determined according to traditional gender roles accepted by society over time. And what is expected of women is that many feminists are considered worse than the fact that they are not paid for these jobs. So they think it's worse than the fact that they're not paid for all the jobs they're doing. The gender-related inequality in the distribution of child and household care between women, which places a greater burden of responsibility on women not only to weaken their competitive position on the labour market but also produces negative effects for their ability to earn. This double burden, prejudice, and the fact that we are still living in a patriarchal society makes it difficult for women to access almost all areas of life. That's what my colleague Martina was talking about. Not only are regulations, regulations and laws being disregarded that both men and women have equal status and opportunities still ignore the fact that the experience, skills and knowledge of women influence the quality and development of society. I will mention only one final work of the Faculty of Political Sciences, which has explored the correlation of the development of all 429 municipalities and 127 towns with the number of elected councils in municipal and city halls in local elections. The result showed that, of course, there is a huge connection. In other words, those municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia that have more municipal and city councils are according to the index of development and more developed and successful. That should be a message and a lesson for all of us. To conclude, the lawyer's report on gender equality shows that, according to achieving gender equality, we progress much slower than we would like. As far as legal regulations are concerned, we have almost all the preconditions, but it is obvious from the attorney's report that we must make a move in both our heads and our actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53729	Thank you. The replica was reported by counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the one that was offered first of all that my colleague mentioned in her birth certificate. I must point out here a positive example of our President-in-Office of the Parliament who, whenever the Government proposes a certain act, says exactly that, the Proposer. So far, it has been a practice to say the promoter despite the fact that the government is a female. I welcome it, I consider it a symbolic act to respect this very equality in this House of Highs. What you mentioned is what I would refer to and what is worrying, so when we discussed the phenomena of discrimination in our society, the first category of discrimination is by ethnicity, i.e. the color of the skin and the second is by sex. So this is something that is very indicative that sex is already second in the category of discrimination in which they occur. This first comes first of all at work, so when we first talk about young women, one of the questions of employers is whether you intend to have a family, whether you are engaged, whether you have a boyfriend, therefore it is already in the sphere of indulging in a private life that is never justified. So I agree with you when you say maybe in some documents you should definitely consider it by official documents, that at least in one 50-50 ratio, or perhaps in some documents we speak completely and state everything in the female.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53731	Thank you. I'm glad when you praise the President of our Parliament but he respects the fact that the Government is a female noun has nothing to do with gender equality. It has to do with knowing spells. The following debate came up with Mirel Holly in an individual debate, but she's gone, so she loses her right to debate. I give my word to the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53732	Thank you, Vice President. Respected attorneys with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In this debate on this report, I would like to make a kind of distance from that of some standard content, i.e. I would like to talk about infrastructure in the function of reducing gender inequality or specifically about the county committees for gender equality as an extended hand of the Government's Office for Gender Equality on the ground. I recall last year we adopted the National Policy to promote gender equality from 2011 to 2015 as the most important strategic document for the implementation of gender equality policy. In this strategy, it is precisely the county committees for gender equality that have been designated as holders or are the holders of a series of activities within the defined objectives and measures in that national policy. So expectations from the county committees on gender equality are actually high. But the first fact we have to admit is that in a large number of cases, therefore, in a large number of counties, these commissions are actually a dead letter on paper. In a number of counties operate but almost exclusively on the enthusiasm of individual members. So I deliberately highlight individual members because in these committees, men are literally the rights of exotics and that is certainly one of the problems. In fact, it still predominates the opinion that advocating gender equality is a woman-only issue and has no significance of any particular social issue. However, discussing this subject in a large number of cases for men is a humiliating topic. Finally, isn't this situation in the assembly tonight when we discuss this report speaking in favour of it, or does it not confirm it? So the commissions are almost exclusively made up of women, and they're left there to discuss things with each other about women's things, to discuss with themselves, even though women know perfectly what their problems are, they know them well. However, it is no use for women to discuss these problems alone, so it is necessary for the work of the committees to be attended by men and to agree solutions to problems on the ground in a partner relationship. As we know, gender equality in Croatia is a constitutional category, so it is included in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the highest value. It is the goal that we pursue in all areas of life, and if so, and it is, then the relationship to gender equality must also be changed. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that there will be no quality shifts in the functioning of the county commissions until they become working bodies with representative bodies of local and regional self-government, so municipalities, cities and counties. This means that you should have your own budget amongst other things. As far as I'm aware, it's not the case in most cases. This will ensure that one of their firmer status will ensure that they function independently on political sympathies or non-sympathies of political structures in power. We've been discussing this report for several months since the local elections ended. What we know is that there are too few women in local politics, too few in politics at all, and especially in local politics, and it is local politics that solves citizens' problems most directly. Too few women because they have grown up if I may say there in the daily carrying a growing burden on my back, from working without working time, through daily facing financial problems to motherhood and child care, and also for older and powerless ones. In one word, the women got tired but didn't give up, so I want to point out, so we didn't give up. Unfortunately, this situation will take so long until that primordial formula changes that women hold three corners of the house, and the man one. This was just before said by a colleague named Ingrid, so when men take another corner in the house, and that involves more male involvement in child rearing, greater use of parental leave, greater participation in domestic affairs of women will get a greater space for participation in public life, one word will establish a balance in the management of private public life, and that is, in my opinion, a taste of gender equality. In this context, the county Committees on Gender Equality were given a national strategy to promote measures that allow the coordination of exactly these private and professional obligations. Therefore, it is specifically 4 measures aimed at a more balanced family obligation schedule and between partners. So, between a man and a woman. In this regard, I ask the question, what have the county committees done about it so far? By stressing that at the end of the third year of national policy implementation, there are two years left, 2014 and 2015, and what has been done at all? And the next question. As one on the measure of economic empowerment of women, it is envisaged to adopt a Strategy for the Development of Women's Entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2014 to 2017. So, by 2014, there were practically two months left. Where is this strategy? I didn't hear anything about that. So, there could be more very similar questions, and I know that it is certainly not possible for me to answer the lawyer because it is not her portfolio, so it is not her responsibility, it is the responsibility of the head of the Office for Equality, the Government's Office for Gender Equality. However, if the attorney knows anything about it, I'd like him to tell us. And at the end of my debate, I would actually like to present a very positive experience a few days ago. Last week on Wednesday and Thursday, at very late hours, we discussed two topics, so we discussed the Law on Youth Tips and the Advocate's Report for Children. I must say that the atmosphere in the assembly was remarkable, that we felt very good, that it was encouraging, that it was debated with common sense, by the power of arguments, not by argument of force. And we parted, in fact, I'd say even a little reluctantly, we split up without frustration, we split up in a way that we were aware that we contributed to this one good, quality debate and a quality solution to the problems that were on the agenda. So what's most important in this whole story is that there were mostly women and a few conscious men around here, and I have to say that that's how women do it. And more importantly, what I wanted to say to this is that our colleagues often act too often as though in the Roman Colosseum they are too often forgotten to be in the highest representative body of this state, so in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53733	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have two replicas. Dear representative Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53734	Thank you. Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's all the honor that comes to those who have found the time and insisted on staying in this debate. Here's what I need to do is simply get involved in a debate from a colleague who's been very well-detecting the very problem of the Committee on Gender Equality, County, City. Everything else is committees, that's commission. And yes, I will, for example, take my county these commissions actually have no money to do with what the other committees have. And I would still take advantage of the opportunity in the name of the esteemed colleague to really see what these commissions are doing and on what principle they are working on. Unfortunately, the county commissions in most cases have come down to convene the commission once a year, once a year. Not to say that in some counties, he hasn't called out in three years. And then I also have to tell my male colleagues, and from the county or city, they paint, clap, smile that, yes, we support you, and all of this is, in principle, so beautiful, wonderful, we're the same with women, we're supporting and the story is essentially going on. What's not good is that it's women's topics that we only discuss women most often. Women's topics need to be discussed and listened to precisely by men because that's the message we give them. Unfortunately, it is not good that these commissions also come down to issuing in two years some kind of booklet, the equality of women, the position of women in society. And that's actually it, that's what the story stays on. They, commissions in my opinion, should go out on either the press, or at seminars, warn about problems, warn about specific situations that are bad and that are happening. Unfortunately, these commissions are silent about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53735	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53736	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, you guys are absolutely right, so your replica is on to what I was talking about. Commissions of County, City, Municipal, for gender equality are therefore advisory bodies with representative authority rather than work. So it's interesting that only these commissions are called committees and all the other working bodies are committees and they have their own budget. The commissions don't have their own finances, so they don't have their own budget. And it's obvious, obviously, that we actually have through these committees one formal support but not real. As in many other things, namely, your replica brought me to that very common phenomenon, at any meetings, sessions, the celebrations of men who make up women, so men mostly appear, greet and leave. So, then we talk on our own, bring problems to each other. And we know very well what our problems are that lead to gender inequality. However, as long as we discuss them ourselves without men listening to us and in a partner relationship trying to solve them, there will be no more significant shifts for so long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53737	New replica and respected representative Zeljko Shepmer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53738	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Jelash, I would just like to correct you and show you how many male prices of women in this House are and since I love statistics I must inform you that during your debate the result was 9:9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53739	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53740	Thank you, Mr. President. She's an esteemed attorney with co-workers, co-workers and co-workers. The report that is in front of us in the Croatian Parliament tonight is indeed extensive, systematic and transparent in all segments, but the content is quite different. The content describes pictures from everyday life of citizens and citizens of Croatia, and images are like this. Although we've been listening to statistics tonight on several occasions, it's always good to repeat them, especially in a place like this. So among men, the average employment rate is about 44% and women are well below 33. Gender segregation of professions closely associated with pay gaps between women and men is evident. When, or if women are employed in the Croatian labour market, they earn 89.8% of the amount earned by men. Women who have children in the private sector earn up to 23% less than men. In elementary schools where wages are available among the lowest workings of as many as 81.4% of women. There are 72% of women and 28% of men among the office staff. The calling of a regular professor has only 444 women and 1603 men. There are only 27 to 28% of women in the main seats of the legislative bodies among state officials, i.e. officials and directors, or directors. Only 17.28% of women are members of company management, and less than 3% of men take parental leave and sick leave for children, so less than 3%. Women perform 90% of family and household jobs in Croatia. The share of women in Parliament and the government is about 20% and what is not good is that this share has been stagnating for five years. The average participation of women in local authorities is 15% in cities and counties and only 8% in municipalities. So can we talk about gender equality? What is the position of women on the Croatian political scene for whom colleagues and colleagues are representatives and we are personally responsible. 2835 candidates and 1524 candidates, or 65% to 35%, were reported for the 2011 parliamentary elections. Today in the Assembly is the next birth picture. Immediately after the election, the share of women was almost 20 and 19.8 respectively, but the replacements of the mandate rose to today's 24th. But what is interesting is the educational structure of parliamentary representatives, or representatives. With high professional support of MPs is 70.8% and MP 86.84%. With the middle expert support of MPs is 18.9% and MP 0.02%. However, out of the 29 parliamentary committees, 7 is all the chairman of the committee. But women should encourage the fact that in Croatia they have proven a higher degree of education than men. Women today make up most of the doctors and doctors, judges and judges, university professors and professors, the majority among students and students, and the minority are only among the convicts and prisoners. There are legal and institutional frameworks for achieving gender equality, therefore, and this should encourage women and should be encouraged to make significant progress in the field of education and education towards gender equality through experimental introduction of civic education, which will cease to be experimental and compulsory by introducing health education from next year. Family and professional engagement can be coordinated, and this year's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support that allowed fathers to enjoy the most beautiful things in the world or parenting through another dimension, maternity or parental leave. Besides being the most beautiful, it's the hardest thing in the world and for her we're very often unprepared, especially fathers. Pelen and feeding, sleeping, cooking, are not easy for mothers or fathers. That's not even the main problem. The main problem is whether I'm doing everything right and whether I'm good enough or whether I'm good enough. There is still an opinion in society, especially among men that men do not belong at home with a baby, but that the mother is a better parent for a child in that period. In the Republic of Croatia, parental leave has so far been decided on parental leave only 2,63% of fathers while the European average is up to 30%. Two to four months of parental leave for another parent, most often a father, will not categorically solve all parental concerns and fears, but will at least contribute equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53741	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject. It's the Honorable Attorney, Višnja Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53742	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you esteemed MPs and MPs. I thank you for all the questions, the comments, the observations, and here's the grouping of this problem that we've discussed today through several topics, several areas. Surely, your debate mainly referred to the field of work and employment, the question of the glass ceiling, the participation of women in decision-making positions, the harmonisation of family and business life, which is one of the biggest challenges, would say one of the most important factors in involving women, especially young women in the labour market. This is a problem that not only the Republic of Croatia is facing the Republic of Croatia, it is a problem that the European Union is also facing, and it is an extremely demanding and complex problem that requires not only the modest capacity of the institution of the Ombudsman, which points to such a situation but also political factors, to the local community, to the political leaders and, of course, depends on to a certain extent and on the allocation of the state budget in which it will be possible for women especially young families to be able to engage in the labour market if the sensitivity of a particular society is demonstrated, the community to promote public services especially the setting of criteria in which children will be left in educational and educational institutions which are those criteria that create restrictions, whether the mother will be unemployed or one of the parents, unemployed, whether the child will be able to kindergarten and what is with those mothers, which is with those mothers, which is not the men who want to work, and the job. Who's he gonna trust to keep the kids safe? The question of burden distribution and the role of fathers and mothers, men and women in family life is, of course, one of the questions to which we should seek a focus or take a stand in our education system. What our children perceive from the earliest youth as pointed out by the esteemed representative Sonja König, what they can vividly perceive, which they can perceive through an educational and educational institution where they work with only aunts. Because kindergarten uncles only participate 1% shows how our children will be sensitized for roles, for sharing household jobs, and for sharing child care. I'd like to mention a study on how men do their jobs when they're participating in domestic affairs or raising children. So statistics show in principle that there is some increase in the participation of fathers in raising children which at first sight can be a single plastic picture until you scratch under that surface and you see that the analysis shows that fathers take over the role in raising children in a way that is mostly played and entertained by them. At a time when this child needs to be fed, bandaged, and engaged in other, more demanding jobs, they officely leave everything to their mothers. The research conducted by the Centre for Women's Studies on the Perception of Gender Equality Principle shows that younger men, highly educated men, generally support the issue of gender equality. However, it still happens to us here we will mention the data 2,63% which stagnates for the last three years on the takeover of total maternity leave of all fathers which can be understood ambiguously. You can primarily understand such a small share of fathers because there is still this traditional division of the role of jobs in one family community, and on the other hand you can talk about that, I'm sorry, I lost my continuity. Yes, on the other hand, it speaks of reflecting the state of the labour market, thank you, reflecting the state of the labour market that men are always better paid and that is why women leave the labour market and decide to pause for a certain time and stay at home in the care and care of children. It's a media problem. The media is an extremely important social one, an extremely important social lever. The media have an extremely great power in persuasion of social attitudes and social values. And precisely because the media have such a great responsibility, and this responsibility has been recognised both by national and international documents as mandatory to remove stereotypes, prejudices and sexism. I must say that since 2006, the institution of the Ombudsman has conducted 26 media research. In most of the recommendations and warnings that we have sent to media houses, portals about discrimination, sexual discrimination and sexism, we have had success. However, portals and commercial televisions appear which, despite warnings, do not adhere to the removal of birth stereotypes and are discriminatory in both men and women. We have more and more citizens and citizens who are critical, who are making complaints that they don't want that kind of perception of women or men in public space. What we do, and we are already in negotiations with the Parliamentary Media Committee to raise the issue to a higher level and to initiate certain actions against the media that violate both national and international norms. Today we also talked about the county committees for gender equality, and I thank you deeply for opening this issue. I, when I arrived two years ago at the head of this institution, had a worrying statistic about identifying the institution at national and local level. Out of the number of complaints 65% of complaints came from the City of Zagreb, from 20 other counties from 0.1 to 0.8%. That perception has changed through these two years of going to the field. Although under the Law on Gender Equality, coordination over the work of the county committees, 21 of the county commission enters the authority of the government's Gender Equality Office, I am administratively trying to achieve and I have achieved fruitful co-operation with one part I could say one third of the county's Committees on Gender Equality. And as they represent in some way the extended hands of the government's office, I certainly need to be further represented by extended arms and great support at local level because this institution doesn't even have offices at local level and there's no female civil society organization in all the districts like the other attorneys have. So the proper, well, systematic functioning of the county commissions is of an extremely important national mechanism to support the work of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality. The problem you pointed out, I believe, could be solved through changes to the Law on Gender Equality and through some kind of co-ordinated role where more work by the county committees would not depend on the enthusiasm of individuals, or individuals led by those committees. Unfortunately, every year the reports we receive are about marking one, two or three national dates that can be linked exclusively to women, domestic violence, labour holiday and Women's Day or such a situation, any publication of a brochure, etc. and exclusive activity depends mainly, since we depend a lot on this presence at local level, on our initiative. So, if we have initiated solving certain problems, if we have some kind of project and financial resources are needed for such a presence at national and local level. By believing that these financial resources that we will receive from the EU in cooperation with the HUP, the Association of Employers and the Ministry of Labour for the Education of Employers on Higher and Equal Participation of Men and Women will also contribute to the inclusion of the County Commissions where we will be able to penetrate beyond the local level. But I would say that this perception of less importance and the non-financing of the county's gender equality committees is an institutional problem that extends from high state structures to local level. Why? I'll compose something for you. Here, I did not know that the advisors of the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality until some time ago had the lowest coefficients of any of the other advisors and advisors of the Board of the Croatian Parliament. Of the four defense attorney institutions, this institution has at least the coefficients, not to mention the technical support we don't have, for example, the official car while other lawyers have two official cars. So there are a number of structural issues that undermine the issue of gender equality, which I have witnessed in public forums, at local level, in different structures regardless of the composition of the population we have talked to. Public perception of gender equality equals a woman's question of equally minor importance. Unfortunately, it's a fact that I have to say at this point. We have some positive shifts, big efforts, big problem openings, certain trends that I've shown you. Of course, alone and alone as an institution and as my office, employees are hardly able to change things, but we can also point out that we are not waiting with our warnings and recommendations to stand in the fifth drawer of state bodies, private companies to which we give warnings and recommendations are already pro-actively looking for meetings, activate and seek to solve the problem. Here, I think I've mostly covered your considerations. I've seen your replica, and here I am ready to respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53743	Thank you, too, Your Honor's Attorney General. He has a replica of the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53744	Thank you very much, President. I would just look back on the part of the prosecutor for gender equality when she talked about the distribution of jobs in the household of raising children and doing household chores, and I totally agree that there should be division of jobs between men and women. But I want to point out a particular problem that we need to talk about and keep in mind, which is a change of law that is not regulatory. We will now soon have a debate on the Labour Act which gives the possibility that they will be able to work weekly until 56 hours a week. If two people who have children work 56 hours, if they do not start and end their work hours at the same time, a particular question arises how can they even share that part of the work and take care of their children and take care of the distribution of household chores. This is too long to be able to do that part of the distribution at all, and there will be a certain part of the problem and conflict in the family and conflict between husband and wife over the division of certain jobs precisely because of these particular problems that are present for their workplace. And that's why I primarily wanted to appeal in that part that you should too be busy in that part so that such a legal solution does not happen that will lead to an unfavourable family situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53745	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, esteemed Ombudsman Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53746	Thank you. I thank you very much for your comment. We closely follow the amendments to the Labour Act. What has been happening in the labour market in recent years, and in particular it affects women is the uncertainty of working relationship in terms of the conclusion of a work contract at a certain time. In fact, employers are doing something that the law requires as a principle to implement what the legislator has prescribed as an exception they implement as a principle. And such practice is inadmissible not only in the national frameworks but it also warns European court practice and the EU parliament. The flexibility of working time, of course, will be a great hit for women, will affect the fertility and fertility of women, will affect the decision on whether to engage in the labour market or not, will also lead to family destruction. With such a poor economic situation as it currently exists, and if there will be a continuing misunderstanding of those who can lead to the opening of public services under certain co-financing as I had the opportunity to see kindergartens that are free of charge for certain municipalities or cities or mangers that are free of charge without certain censorship or working frameworks that are imposed in front of employees and unemployed fathers and mothers. So we're really going to take care of this, and we already have a meeting with the female unionists on whom we're going to take up a common platform on certain minimums that will need to be represented in order to protect not only women but also men. I'm saying, there's going to be a lot of decomposition and even less population policy than what we have today. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53747	Thank you, too, with one warning. In a speaking assembly, they speak, standing apart from the chairman at the table. Thank you very much. A new replica of Gordana Sobol's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53748	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Attorney-General, I have answered the replica just to support you with some of your thoughts and attitudes primarily regarding the problems of the work of the county committees, so I would like to remind you that when the last amendments to the Law on Gender Equality were made, it was then that we asked that instead of the county commissions to form committees in the congregations that would have the same status as the other working bodies of the county congregations and cities and municipalities where they form, because we believe that this would absolutely give meaning to the importance and opportunities for all other committees to discuss their problems and all the material that comes to the debate of the assembly or council. We believe that this is extremely important because, through some others, I would say protocols, let's say, local committees also play certain roles and I'm afraid that they are now not being implemented as such. The County Commissions essentially decided for them because it had been kept in mind the Commission of the County of Istria which was first formed as such and which from the beginning created one status in the county which seems to me to have been delayed if I am not mistaken until today, but obviously such a way does not work in other counties, so we support your efforts and initiatives for a possible change of law. And on the other hand, it may have been time for you and your office to actually go into thinking and some planning that might not be next year, it may not be in two years, but in terms of your regional not to say expansion but to dislocate the office and this attorney's office because I don't see any reason that the rest of the offices are doing it and that they have support and that you wouldn't eventually have. I say maybe he won't be able to do it next or in the next year, but later, he probably will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-22-0.u53749	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Yeah. The Honorable Advocate Višnja Ljubicic answers to the replica. You won't answer. Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted all the lists for the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. We will now stop working, start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the 5th agenda Final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 420. We'll hang out tomorrow morning. Good night. Report on the work of the Ombudsman on gender equality for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality for 2012 is accepted. A year.". Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I find that, unanimously, with 94 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
