ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49272	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, First Reading, P.Z. No. 358; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Ms Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and respected MPs. We propose a substantial not-so-expansive amendment to the Legacy Act. The succession procedure shall regulate the procedure in which the transfer of obligations and rights from the deceased to the follower is resolved, and the procedure shall have its purpose to fill in that legal void that occurs when the person who is the holder of the rights and obligations of the deceased and, in fact, to ensure legal certainty in that procedure. In the process of succession, it is possible that the person who died has no heir, whether objectively there is no person who is related to him or her by law, no willful inheritance, or for the reason that the persons who have called upon the inheritance have given up their inheritance. The situation is now arranged so that, if it is a detached property, the property that does not have an heir goes into the property of the municipality or the city, and that is, if it is a property of the municipality and of the city in which the property is located, and if it is about the movements that were owned by the leaver to the municipality, or the town in which the leaver had his residence, or residence, or where it was registered in the Book of Citizens. We have the declared jurisdiction of all followers, or heirs, in the sense that their legal position is equal. However, it is only a principle of determination, since it is precisely in order to solve the problem of ossuary property, therefore, with an asset that does not have an heirloom in order to carry out a legal succession here or a city of municipalities or a city without legal possibility to give up its inheritance. Therefore, municipalities or cities must inherit the property and obligations of the leaver. And right here, when you're in charge of leaving your debts, we have a situation that equates all followers in the sense that the heirs are responsible for the debts of the heirs to the amount of property they inherited but corresponds to all their assets. In practice, we now have a situation where the believer is charged on the property of the municipality or city in a way that is, of course, the simplest way after we have introduced the Law on the implementation of the commission over the funds is absolutely the simplest way to collect from the municipality or city account. And so this is the way in which the most common believers are used, thereby bringing the community or city into an unspeakable position because it is therefore charged out of account. In addition to this time, we have also observed in practice certain levels of abuse in a way that giving up the inheritance of that heir who left the debt of abuse as an institute did not escape responsibility for his debts. In view of these specificities and in order to protect the municipality or city as an heir who cannot give up the inheritance right, it is proposed to amend the law in the sense that the trustees of the leaver are able to enforce against the municipality or the city, therefore, in the executive procedure of the payment of their debt, only on those matters or rights which are an integral part of the legacy. So we didn't damage this principle where the heir responds to the amount of debt but with all his assets, it remains that way, but we have determined that the execution or forced payment of such debt can only be made on that property that was the object of the legacy. This is now a second reading, and between the first and second readings we had a certain intervention and in the sense that we had prevented the possibility that the municipality or the city would avoid liability for the debts of the leaver in a way that had been inherited before the execution took place. Therefore, at the time of the inheritance, the municipality or the city will acquire certain assets until the initiation of the procedure of enforcement, or forced collection, it is possible to dispose of such assets. If the municipality or city has had such property at that time, then this proposed model will not be used to correspond to the inherited property but will then, by the old one, correspond to its own assets. In this regard, we did not accept the proposal that was given in the debate, or proposal, to limit the time available. The proposed solution, through an additional paragraph 7, limits the implementation of the implementing act to or does not restrict the implementation of the implementing act on its property if the municipality has the capacity or the city has the inheritance of the property. During the debate, the Committee on Legislative Law on how justified this possibility is, or how much the believer is placed in a more difficult position than he is damaged by such a solution. We believe that the believer is not damaged by such a solution because, first of all, there is no absolute protection of the credentials. Surely there is no above that which the believer himself has secured when entering legal relations with the debtor, and I will repeat we have not brought the heirs into a different position, we have limited the forced payment of that property that is the object of the legacy only by this provision. There was also a proposal from the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS to include a provision in the law saying that such a solution does not limit the municipality or the city to settle debt from all its assets. We have not chosen such a variant because it is logical that the municipality or city can settle debts from all their assets. I repeat, we do not limit equality in that part of the heir. So if the municipality or city concludes that some property that they inherited is so valuable that it is necessary for them to pay off the equivalent in money, but it is all a matter of volunteering to settle the debt all the way before forced collection through the performance. We have also incorporated into the law a proposal from the State Office for the revision of the provision by which the decision on succession is delivered to the competent tax authority in which the tasks of determining the supervision and collection of the inheritance tax are because we have noticed that because of the optional delivery of this kind of tax evasion we have had in this part to avoid. The law also includes provisions concerning the OIB, so that the OIB becomes mandatory content of the death certificate and inheritance solutions precisely so that all data relating to property or rights and obligations of citizens can be monitored. We also had a debate on the issue of the entry into force of these provisions in the light of whether they will be applied retroactively or from the date of entry into force of this law. Given that it is not intervened here in the process itself, but as I have said, the solution has been offered in terms of restrictions on the forced collection of these claims, we have concluded that the provisions of this law will not apply to the procedures of insurance or enforcement that have been put into effect before the entry into force of the law, but to avoid retroactive action of the law. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49274	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the law that we discussed in the first reading, and now, with the final proposal, we are creating conditions for the legal balance and security of certain social processes. The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Heritage of the Legacy, which has no successors, as we have heard from the Deputy or Obstacle Property, has been resolved in a good way in the direction of protection of units of local self-government, and in particular from the point of view that the municipality or city cannot give up inheritance as other heirs despite the declared equality of legal heirs and municipalities and cities. The law declares equality even though it is not. And since the legal position of the municipality and of the city and heirs still differs, protection is necessary. What's the unequal position? In fact, the legal position of the heir is that heirs can give up their inheritance. We heard from the deputy saying that certain abuses have also been observed in order to avoid debts. I wouldn't call it abuse, I'd simply call it the right heir who can accept the inheritance, he can give it up. Of course, there have been very often cases if the heir sees that the debts of the leaver are far greater than the inherited property that has occurred very often and that the inheritance is denied. The municipality or city is simply not allowed to do so, although as we can see, the law declares equality. And of course, both the city and the municipality accept all legal consequences in the case of the leaver's debts. Since the leaver’s debts corresponded to the entire assets of the existing legal solution, some units of local self-government were in a more difficult position than they were at the time of the inherited property. The believers realised their claims on the entire property, municipality or city with all the things and rights that make up the property of the municipality and the city, and in reality the claims were made on money in the account of the municipality or the city. The solution offered to us by this final proposal that leaves creditors against the unit of local self-government can only be charged on the items and rights that were subject to the left protection of the local self-government unit in the performance of their basic tasks and as I pointed out without jeopardising the basic function of the unit of local self-government. Finally, the bill establishes a balance in protection between the rights of creditors and units of local self-government and without jeopardising basic functions. Of course, there is no need to question the role of a legislator whose fundamental obligation is to create legal balance and security in various social processes. In this direction was the proposal of the Assembly Committee on Justice to discuss the first reading of this legal text. In support of the proposal to protect the legal position of the local self-government unit, it was indicated, on the other hand, that it is not sufficiently guaranteed and protected by the rights of the credentials. It is therefore good that the proposer, in the final proposal and by accepting the comments of the Justice Committee, provided for a provision that units of local self-government correspond to their property if the inherited property is estranged prior to the settlement of the credentials. In this way, that is, with such a proposal as I have already pointed out, I am protecting the basic function of the local self-government units from reaching out to their entire assets, but only inherited from one side and on the other hand we are protecting the believer from alienating these assets before their settlement. And, of course, we support those two technical solutions that are in the final draft of the law and that the decision on succession is delivered to the tax authority, not only to the tax administration, because it goes towards the objective of more effective collection of income from inheritance and gifts taxes. This is all for the reasons of the current difficulties in determining the taxpayers of inheritance and gifts, as well as in order to strengthen the collection of income of local self-government units that cut and charge the tax themselves. And finally. We support the proposal that the content of the death certificate and the content of the inheritance solution be complemented by a personal identification number used in daily work in official records and in data exchange and certainly intended to be in content and death certificate and in the content of the inheritance solution. In particular, as the contents of this final proposal go towards strengthening and protecting the legal position of local self-government units on the one hand and the creditors on the other hand, this final draft of the law will lead to the legal certainty of the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49276	Thank you. Here's 13 hours and 26 minutes, appropriate time to announce the break. We'll continue at 3:00. It is next to the HNS Club and the esteemed representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49277	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] I would like to inform you that given the large agenda and the fact that we will be supplementing the agenda points Friday, that we will be working up to 9 today, or the point we will have at that time, and that you are planning your time. And now on behalf of the Club, HRS representative colleague Sonja Konig.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49278	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's reasonable and just, so we could call these changes and additions to the Legacy Act, and that's why we're going to support them at the HNS Club. We have heard from my predecessors and from the deputy, in our country the legacy of no heir becomes the property of a city or a municipality and every legacy that has heirs, but for various reasons the disowned inheritance becomes the property of a unit of local self-government, and so to speak, also inherits the debts of the heirs. Each of us can refuse inheritance, but the state cannot do so, and in order to manage certain processes well, certain bodies or institutions or budget-making or budget-making in this sense it is important to know, or it is important to better predict possible situations affecting the management of these processes. And when someone dies, what they will do with their assets and debts, or what they will do with assets and debts if they exist at all, they will do with the heirs of the deceased, of course it is impossible to predict. And it has just happened that our units of local self-government have unpredictably found themselves in situations where heirs would just because of the debts of those of whom they inherit their inheritance. As it is said, neither guilty nor debt to the municipalities and cities became in debt. These changes and additions to the laws of the municipality and cities will no longer have to fear that due to the succession of debts after the death of one of their inhabitants, they will be brought to a begging stick because the future believers will be able to achieve demand only on those things and rights that were part of the legacy, and not so far over the entire property of the city or the municipality, including of course its account. How many units of local self-government throughout Croatia have so far or at least two or three years ago had or inherited the state is unknown. Our neighbors, for example. The Republic of Serbia is, for example, in the inheritance of the Republic of Serbia. There was a 1991 ossa real estate. For now, we only have cities or municipalities alone. Since 2010, Rijeka has been here, for example. Inherited 6 ossa apartments, Zagreb acquired property of 12 properties three years ago, and Osijek acquired ownership rights over 7 apartments in the period from 2010 to 2012. In addition to this individual, we have no idea in which number and number of real estate or property are concerned, but it will soon change because a little more than two months ago in this Croatian Parliament we have adopted the Strategy and the Law on the Management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, by which the cities and municipalities of the Central Register of Assets will report the inherited desolation in order to finally find out and be transparent how many of its total numbers are. This information, provided for by the law that we have already passed, will be public and accessible by all their publication via the Internet, and the law on succession that we hope to pass tomorrow will make it easier for our municipalities and cities to plan their budgets more secure and that is why we at the HNS club will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49279	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49280	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed final draft law mainly refers to the addition of Article 139, adding new paragraphs 6 and 7 to which it is limited... only to things and rights which have been inherited by units of local self-government, cities and municipalities as a reference property. Thus, the death of an heirless leaver moves to a municipality, or city that receives the same legal position as if they were heirs of the leaver, but with a significant difference that inheritances cannot be disowned because they are not heirs in a legal sense. In relation to the movables and their equal rights, the ossage leaves pass to the municipality or town where the leaver had a residence or residence at the time of death, or where the leaver was registered in the Book of Nationals of the Republic of Croatia, and the property in the municipality or city in which they are located. In view of the specific situation so far, the municipalities and the city had to accept the legal consequences resulting from the fact that they guaranteed their assets for the leavers’ debts, which would mean that the units of local self-government, municipalities or the city failed to sell the inherited assets, must be paid off by financial means from their budget. This is precisely why we believe that the intensity of the Amendments and Supplements Act was fair and objective to the units of local self-government because in practice cities and municipalities were just because they had become someone's successor on the basis of a deficient property they had found themselves in a more unfavourable position than they had before those who had left, the believers realised their claims by carrying out their work on the entire property, over all things, rights and, above all, according to their accounts. Therefore, these amendments to the laws of the municipality and of the cities should no longer fear that due to the inheritance of the property and the debts after the death of one of its citizens will be brought to the beggar stick because the future performance for the debt of the heirs could be carried out only on that property, i.e. on the advance property and not on the entire municipal, or city property, including its account. Because it often happens that legal heirs deny inheritance precisely because of debts. According to available data in local self-government units, the most common are two following examples. First, when the debt comes to welfare institutions, homes for older and powerless persons, as well as stations in which the leavers were placed to death. Or two when credit defaults to banks. We also support the proposal to introduce a personal identification number into the death certificates and inheritance solutions that can now be used as a tool to start the creation of a base on oscillating property in Croatia. Finally, we conclude that it is correct to apply the applicable legal provisions to ongoing proceedings and that these amendments to the law apply only to those stages of the procedure which will begin after their entry into force. Therefore, but these short but important amendments and additions to the Heritage Act will support the HDZ Club as well as in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49281	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Vishny Fortuna. She's not there, she's losing her right to debate. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49282	Here is Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs for a short time. The HDSSB advocates club supports this amendment and the addition of the Heritage Act because we believe that these few solutions that apply here, I will not re-emerge them and elaborate them now, that they are quite logical and justified. Perhaps only one remark to the promoter or the proposal, since if the municipality or the city is coming in, so here is the focus on the minus resulting from the commitment to the desert process and the ossuary property, but if, for example, the municipalities or the city earns some property on that same basis, and this exceptional income may need to be considered that, and that property or that income that is realised has no purpose, so it is not planned in the budget, perhaps it could be considered to define where that income would go. Or for some possible purpose or for some charity. So, it is an extra budget income that can sometimes be moved in larger amounts, especially when it comes to the City of Zagreb, or large cities in the Republic of Croatia. So maybe, I don't know now what those amounts are about, given that it's not mentioned here, but if it's some larger amounts, maybe it could be bound by municipalities and cities that make some major income from this base that this income is intended for certain activities of use. Otherwise, the counseling club supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49283	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49284	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This little one, but I'd say a significant amendment to the inheritance law is solved in a fairer but also more efficient way of deficient or caucus property. As my colleagues earlier said on behalf of the club, they said about what property it is, therefore, property that has no heirs. She passes, I think it's important to say, because precisely because of the inaccuracy of certain things there were different solutions in court practice and that's why this change is so important. In fact, the municipalities and cities I think for the sake of precision, which is very important not to inherit this property but to the law itself goes into their hands, or into their property under the law itself. That is why municipalities and cities cannot give up such property, and many would do so precisely because the creditors sought much of what the value of the property would have been and would have done so. But the court practice was different there. And why am I saying that municipalities and cities are not heirs to these assets, but under the law itself, even under the OGZ and earlier regulations that ruled in this area, but also otherwise which are gains in the civil law of many legal order are precisely the fundamental principles of the Law on Inheritance. Among others, therefore, just to remind myself of the equality of men and women in the inheritance, marriage, extramarital property, freedom of willful availability, cumulation, ex-legation of succession is one important inheritance is the voluntary succession i.e. the right to give up the inheritance. It is the fundamental principle of the Law on Inheritance and Inheritance, the very process of succession. Maybe it's a little bit of a mustache because it can't be in any other law, but it's in the Legacy Act, and so many have realized that there are municipalities and cities that inherit. They're law enforcement, so it was social property before, so the state would have passed. However, municipalities and the city pass into the property of municipalities and cities. However, why this law is very important. There are different solutions. The courts acted differently, so here is one decision, one ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia since 1996, where courts have called, or approve of the transfer of such property, but do not approve of the duty of units of local self-government to answer for debts. Because they say they're not heirs. By the very force of the law, they had property over these properties that they could not give up. However, the courts generally charged the municipalities with claims of the believers. This has led to some incomprehensible provision that is now being specified by the courts calling on the authorities of municipalities and cities to make an inheritance statement. It's, it exists like that. So it was one general mess and it's good to say we have a solution like this. What's particularly worrying is that we have more and more, here's a colleague who's listed some larger courts as many areas as certain municipalities, or cities get such a postage property whether they want it or not. It is a worrying fact, and therefore this law should also be seen in full application along with the Law on Property, the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Law on Social Care, the Law on Family Relations where parents are obliged to support children, but children are also obliged to support parents. But as long as that neglect goes to the children to leave the elderly and powerless parents, that they would be born and give up property just so they wouldn't support their parents. And now we have I won't say floods, but there are frequent cases of municipalities and cities coming up with a terrible property because the children didn't accept the inheritance, and the Social Care Center, of course, is looking for what was given to maintain the burden of the municipalities and cities because they have to receive these properties and have the right and to charge themselves from that property. So, by considering this bill, we have to, and I believe that there will be more speeches in this, and that this will work out in one better way and the Family Relations Act where, in no case at all, where children are under official duty to support their parents. Because often and when they are able to support their parents, and no matter how much that still falls on the burden of the state through the welfare center. So, here I think that this change was necessary for us, it was necessary and that the simple principle of justice requires that municipalities and cities cannot answer beyond measure, so that no heir would answer because the heirs correspond only to the height of their property, and we simply charged the municipalities and cities to respond to the believers for the part, for the property, and even when it went beyond the value of that property. So, I support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49285	Thank you very much. My colleague, Josip Kregar, is not present. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49286	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, second reading, P.Z. No. 358. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, P.Z., has been unanimously adopted. No. 358 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have completed the vote on the topics we have worked out, the proposals for conclusions. You are aware that next week because of the national holiday of 8 we will skip the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I ask that there are a lot of topics in the agenda that are important to prepare by the 15th of October so that we can start on Tuesday with the 27th point in today's agenda. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2013 to work out the working bodies, to end up in clubs. At the same time, I ask you tomorrow to hold a solemn session of the Croatian Parliament here at the Hall of the Croatian Parliament, so please clean up your materials to find them in order to find them in order. I'm expecting you to attend a session tomorrow. Thank you very much. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49287	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, first reading, P.Z. No. 439. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law, and the hearing shall be carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49288	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we propose amendments to the Law on the Court Register, and the court register is, as we know, a public book whose enrolment gives rise to certain legal effects for registration entities, but also for third parties. The needs of amendments to the Law on the Court Register are the result of interventions in the Law on Commercial Companies. This year, where we have introduced or regulated certain procedures for cross-border mergers and mergers of companies, and since the merger and merger of companies concerning cross-border practices should be entered in the register, we are obliged to install such provisions, i.e. propose that they be incorporated into this law in order to fully comply with Croatian registration law with EU law. In this respect, the Company Act upgraded the provision of Article 549a to k. These are new provisions concerning cross-border mergers and mergers. In addition, we have the Law on the introduction of a special commercial form. This is a europea Åàs coperativa, i.e. a special community of a special form of society which we also need to foresee as a possibility to be registered and registered. In addition to these provisions concerning harmonisation with European law, we have made it possible to make it as simple and as easy as possible for each registration procedure to be, with the existing possibility of keeping a register or, with the existing management of the register, by electronic means, to enable electronic registration through the e-business system and the electronic reservation of the name also by this electronic means. What has proved to be a problem in practice and what we are trying to bridge is predicting activity. Therefore, the activity is entered in accordance with the provisions of specific laws, and if the business operator intended to have more activity, he had great difficulties given the necessity to describe all the activities he was going to deal with. We believe that this level of detail is not so necessary and that we allow the enrollment of activities to take place in the form of joint activities, so that the common concept includes what the business operator intends to do. Also in practice there have been some difficulties with eradicating entities under official duty, so we propose an amendment to Article 70 and this amendment is very detailed we have 17 items. We sought in the maximum form to develop circumstances concerning the erasure of the entity because it did not operate or did not provide reports under the legal obligation if it had to, if it had a small amount of property, if it did not comply with the regulations to be complied with. We have defined the concept of insignificant value. We have determined that the decision to initiate the infringement procedure is made publicly available on the website, so we have simplified the procedure so that the entity that is deleted and any interested person can make a statement of the complaint for the purpose of such an announcement, and the court which decides on the complaint will not deliver it through an ad board, but to the provisions on regular delivery. We also prescribed circumstances when the Register Court will reject the objection, when it will be accepted, when it will suspend the erasure procedure, etc., when it will carry out the erasure procedure without liquidation. We tried to make it easier to delete the process as detailed as possible in the sense that it should be implemented and that the register is not burdened in this respect by enroling those who do not act in accordance with the law or do not have property. One of the guidelines of the judiciary is to simplify the procedures to reduce their number, efficiency, and in this regard we have provided for the possibility that cases concerning the court register should not be carried out by judges but also by court advisers because we consider this to be an extra-parity procedure which does not necessarily require the activity of the judge. The number of judicial advisers allows the affairs of the court registry to be carried out much faster and more effectively. In addition, in order to ensure a certain level of expertise we introduce a special category, it is an authorised registrant. It is a permanent pandan in an authorised land-book reference, which is a very different content, but it is a procedurally quite similar procedure that comes down to the registration of legal facts, so we believe that the introduction of an authorised registered referencing officer and a court advisor in court register proceedings certainly contributes to the acceleration and passing of these proceedings. We have in the law installed which exactly describe which jurisdiction there is in the court register procedure, so we believe that we have also prevented any overlaps of jurisdiction or misunderstandings that might occur here. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49289	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49290	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Register Act. Here is what the Deputy Minister said in the introduction that we should remind ourselves that the register is a public record containing data and documents on registration entities for which the registration is prescribed by law, that the register consists of the main book of the register and the collection of documents. The register shall be part of the main book containing data on the registration entity itself. The actual jurisdiction of the registration is therefore the register of the management of commercial courts, and that is the local jurisdiction of that court of the place of the trader’s seat, i.e. the registration entity. And the enrollment is every entry of the subject's data into the master book. Public companies, command company, economic-interest society, share company, limited liability company, trader individual, European society, European Economic and Interest Association, cooperatives, cooperative alliances, institutions, credit unions and other persons to which the law provides. I especially list this because it is announced and what I think about for the sake of business transparency and a fair burden of tax but also for the handling of public money it is good that the Government announced that soon it will have to sign up to the Court Register and that it will also have to adopt an adequate form in accordance with the Commercial Society Act. This is good for the transparency of spending money and for better tasks that this segment also has a very important task in Croatian society. The principles of registration and the principles of the court register, it is very important to understand not only the entire law but especially these amendments, which the deputy has announced. Thus, the principle of legality, the principle of constitutionality, the principle of public, publicity or publication, the principle of reality, i.e. the principle of truthfulness as no one can be called upon to have some information about that entity not known. There is no principle that is very important, the principle of trust and the principle of security. The procedure to be carried out is an out-of-party procedure, i.e. adequate to what the extra-parnite procedure itself indicates, if there are no provisions, and the Law on litigation is applied accordingly. The most important thing and the fact that those most concerned is precisely the fact of a more detailed, detailed description of the provision of the study, the provisions of Article 70 so far, i.e. the amendment and addition of Article 40. This has caused a lot of controversy in practice, of course with large and practical sequences of different kinds as the erasure of the subject takes place under official duty. So, now we have 17 items, so all that has been stated so far has been reluctant because different actions have been done, and this has been caused by our courts, and that has then created certain legal uncertainty. How important this is is the fact that, in fact, courts, especially trade courts, and in this area, how fast they work to directly affect economic life in Croatia. And it is therefore very important that these procedures, especially these procedures, be swift and effective. That is why it rejoices in this and encourages the amendment precisely to have the judge involved in the enrolment, which is in line with the European Union's Justice Directive to release our judicial officials and to keep them only for what they are appointed for and why they are paid, and that is to judge. And all this other stuff, enrolment, administration so that it can be entrusted to other officials in a court that, of course, must be for that and specifically educated. Thus, special referents will now carry out these records which will certainly free the judges to deal with therefore more important activities, therefore, with the trial itself. That the enrollment will be quick about this. But it will also relieve only the judiciary. Here's one piece of information that says that in Zagreb, we have 70 registers and that more than 50% of their working time is spent just on burden, on activity itself, on registration. That is, if the register was fully informed and this is being announced right now, it would release not only the judges but also the very reference, the registries, and they would be needed far less and those people would certainly be able to engage there in another section of the trial to assist. What I would particularly like to stress is that the entry into the court register with all the controversy that has followed the last 20 years of our judiciary that perhaps the least pending entry into the court register and over time and recent changes, and that segment has again improved further and significantly and accelerated. However, I note that there have been a lot of abuses in terms of god's speed, so it was allowed for those people who ran the companies, who remained in debt to their creditors on different grounds, whether they were creditors, or state, to be other creditors as workers, and that, after a long-term court procedure, would simply liquidate the company and form a new company, a new company. It was possible for them in 2004. And when we were very rebelled against such kidnappings and the act of believers, above all the workers and the state, it was explained that it was because of the speed of action, because of the speed of enrolment and that otherwise it could be impaired in a way that such a person who had not paid, who had left his company in charge and had previously drawn any value out of it, so that the creditors could not be charged. Well, it can start a company in someone else's name so that they can always play it out anyway. It's true, every right and every power can be played. But it is our responsibility, first and foremost, that we, as responsible legislators, be able to spot each such phenomenon and prevent it. Of course, back a few years ago such a provision was a deeply unfair provision that poored her I would say and destroy many families, many families who were believers and who thus served such a once... We look forward to getting the final proposal soon, so that such acceleration, indeed and in such a way, we contribute not only to the speed of the work of the judiciary for the sake of the judiciary itself, but rather to the interests of the users, whether they are natural or legal persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49291	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49292	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We support the proposal to amend the law on the court register proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in principle because it is necessary to amend the law in question in order to comply with the regulations of the European Union and with the amendments necessary for the better functioning of the law in question. In particular, we support the proposal to amend the law relating to the participation of judicial advisers in the decision-making process in the first degree, but as regards... the judges in the first-degree procedure, we believe that this part of the cases referred to in Article 9 of the proposed amendment of the law should also be transferred to the power of the court adviser. Namely, the court advisers are persons who are of the same degree of education as judges and who meet all the conditions for judges, so since the court advisers in most courts have a long-standing standing, we believe that resolving these cases put in the jurisdiction of the judges would not be a problem for them, and the more the appeal can be made against the decisions of the judicial advisers, and the same judge of the individual of that court, and the appeal against his decision of the Council drawn up by the three judges. Therefore, in a specific case such a way of prescribing the control of the work of a court adviser, the correct application of the law is ensured, and the judges of commercial courts are also freed from a large part of the work which is more technical and could therefore be more committed to working on other cases. Furthermore, Article 13 of the proposed amendments also provides for the possibility against the decision to initiate the infringement procedure on a proposal from the competent authority of the tax administration or on official duty, may highlight the objection within the time limit set for the emphasis on the complaint and solution. This is a legal provision that we consider unnecessary and will lead to a delay in the procedure for the initiation of the proceedings for the removal of entities from the court register. In our opinion on the initiation of the infringement procedure, the decision should be taken in order to avoid undue delay in proceedings, and the parties in the proceedings would not be deprived or deprived of their right to invest in a legal remedy because they could be consumed in the right of consumption when they adopt a solution to delete entities from the court register. In the proposed way, on several occasions it should be decided on one and the same objection, which in any case does not contribute to the relevance, economics and speed of decision-making. Furthermore, Article 38 of the proposed amendments states, among other things, that the decision must have a justification if the procedure is suspended for withdrawing the application or is considered withdrawn. We really don't see why a court advisor would be bothered with making a solution with an explanation if the party withdraws the proposal and ultimately what the party will explain if they withdraw the proposal itself. In addition, Article 50 provides for the conditions for judicial officers required to obtain the authorisation of the registrant. We agree with the proposed conditions, except in the part where an expert examination is required, because we consider the same unnecessary, and also the legislator of the law in the context of the article in question states that the article in question is a regulated way of appointing existing registrants as authorised registries, and in particular the importance of their working experience in matters in the court register. Taking into account the obligation to pass an additional expert examination, in addition to the expert examination which the referents have already passed, it is further unnecessary to impose additional pressure on the persons concerned and to take valuable time, and the passing of that expert examination will certainly not lead to a significant shift in their expertise, competences, and an additional cost for the tense budgets of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49293	Thank you very much. Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49294	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Oh, here's a little bit. I cannot agree with a colleague in the part where he refers to Article 38. The law, that is, the part where it says that a solution must have an explanation. Here I disagree that the solution is not necessary when the procedure is suspended due to withdrawal of the application or is considered to have been withdrawn. Look, as far as the argument is concerned, it is quite important to state that the party has requested a withdrawal, but we have this second part where the application is considered to have been withdrawn and this is particularly important to explain well because it can often happen in practice that the person who conducts the procedure considers that the request has been withdrawn, and that was not the party's real intensity and then such behaviour must be explained. So I think that's the part that should be kept in law anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49295	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Vishny Fortuna. She's not present. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. And on behalf of the Club, representative of Croatian Labourists Nenad Dance. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49296	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the court register is good, we'll back it up, but we need to warn some things through this law. So far, this law has experienced a dozen changes, changes, additions, technical alignments. More important changes are the process of eradicating the registration entities by official duty in cases where economic operators failed to meet the minimum of their legal obligations, i.e. three years in a row did not publish their annual financial reports, when the law prescribed their publication obligation. The Registrar Court shall, under its official duty, carry out the process of eradicating the entity in cases where it has no property or is of minor value, if it has not complied with the rules laid down in that time limit as it should have been, if it has not acted in accordance with the law of the branch's foreign founder for a period of three years in accordance with the legal obligation in the registering court which the branch is registered for the purpose of enrolling and submitting its annual financial report. The problem of deleting the registration entities is that those economic operators allow for the rapid disappearance of the market and the termination of their property-legal liability. In particular, Article 70 here should be taken into account how much the new law will protect the creditors of a society that is being liquidated. There should be a mechanism that will not allow them to delete the company, i.e. avoiding payment of obligations but also establishing a new society while there are outstanding claims. It is of paramount importance that the party registration procedure be as simple as possible and that registration be conducted without delay, registration of business subjects. Article 51 states that the registration of more of the activities prescribed by a special law also enables the general provision of a joint activity to be laid down by that law, i.e. general provision of a joint activity with the exception of activities other than the subject of business. The adoption of a solution is a positive matter, as the decision to enter the register must be made within 15 days of the submission of a neat and content-based application for registration with contributions unless there are reasonable reasons for the longer term. Registration by electronic means shall be carried out without making a decision on the entry. An enrolment must be made within 24 hours by electronic means of the company. The possibility of increasing the efficiency of the judiciary is proposed, the work of judicial officials can also be carried out by other persons. This is about a discharge with a particular emphasis on extending the powers of court advisers on court proceedings since it is outside court proceedings. Simpler objects can be solved on their own. In view of its importance and complexity and effectiveness, the judiciary covers the most strategic objectives of which, in relation to the proposed amendments, it is necessary to set out the improvement of the rules relevant for effective proceedings before judicial authorities, the discharge of judicial officials from the conduct of cases which are not related to their judicial duty. Redefine the powers of judicial advisers and target a reduction in the number of pending cases. The work of judicial officials is, to some extent, burdensome by carrying out tasks that other qualified persons may carry out, and are now foreseen to be carried out by a judicial adviser or an authorised registrant. In the first instance, they will decide on the application and request for the reservation of a name, the entry of a solution, the opening of a pre-demand settlement procedure, the erasure after completion of bankruptcy proceedings, the initiation of the procedures for erasure of all entities, the erasure of all entities of the enrolment pursuant to Article 70 of the application for the registration of other data. In the registries in the complaint against the decision of a judicial adviser or a registrar, the judge shall decide on the individual of the court and the appeal of the judge made in the first instance shall be decided in the second instance by the Council composed of three judges. The proposed provision also introduces new functions in the register through the Institute of the Authorised Registration Reference, the terms and procedures of the appointment, the way in which the case is assigned to work, and the possibility of redistributing the case from the authorised registrant, stressing the role of the judicial authority through the powers of the President of the First Instanceal and Second Instanceal Court. Normally, too, these court references have to pass a special expert exam. It is also prescribed to adopt a specific Regulation laying down a specific examination programme and to explain the appointment procedure more closely. It's all right because it will lead to more effective judicial work. If, in the application of this law, only the simplicity of the registration process and the speed of erasure of the subject, there is a possibility of a problem. I'm going to give you two examples of practice where erasing subjects has left negative consequences. Due to the government's debt, the legal entity has been removed from the court register by a decision of the Commercial Court. Because he's been erased, he has no right to claim from the religious man. Secondly, debts to the state have remained, and he cannot collect his claims. The court proceedings for the collection of claims have been suspended due to the removal from the court register. So, since he's been erased, he doesn't have the right to claim his debts. An example of two who tell us that there is no orderly question of workers in such situations. Under the Law on the Court Register, and under official duty, the Commercial Court has liquidated a legal entity. The status of the employee has not been resolved. So she is officially still an employee of the liquidated company, the liquidated company, and for this reason, the Croatian Employment Service cannot be led as an unemployed person or start a new employment relationship. The Croatian Insurance Office remains registered as a health insurance person, but this right cannot be used while the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is controversial in how to calculate the pension internship. Neither the Company Act nor the Court Register Act solves the problem of the termination of workers' employment relationship in the winding-up process. Similarly, the Labour Act does not contain provisions on the working-law status of workers in the event of liquidation, nor does it stipulate that the termination of the employer’s existence constitutes a special reason for the fact that, under the law itself, labour relations are terminated. In response to the parliamentary question asked by the minister of justice, he replied: "The objective non-compliance of legal norms can lead entities to a difficult situation." I hope that Croatian registration law will fully adapt to European law and that such cases will not be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49297	Replica, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49298	Here's a thank you. I would refer only to my colleagues, therefore, that it is quite unclear about the termination of a working relationship only when a particular entity ceases to exist, so I think it is quite understandable if a particular entity ceases to exist and all of its contractual relations are no longer subject to the contract relationship, so it can no longer be a subject of contractual relations. When one contractual relationship doesn't have two sides, it stops. Therefore, it is in the very Law on Mandatory Relations that the contractual relationship ceases when a Contracting Party also disappears. I think it is, therefore, the termination of a certain contractual relationship with all its consequences and the termination of working relationship with its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49299	The answer to the line, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49300	I have to answer to you, I don't know how it's usually allowed for someone who's stopped, so the company is liquidated, his obligations remain, so the debt to the state has to be settled, and according to the IRS he has to settle and he can't collect his debts. I think it would be quite correct for him to normally share his debts with his own actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49301	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49302	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register because we believe that this 7-by-row novel of the basic text of the law that came out in 1995 is actually a very logical effort to simplify and make the work of the court register more efficient and that the law is updated with new standards that appear right. This law brings a number of important changes and a whole series of nomotechnical improvements, and since nomotechnics do not need to spend valuable time in the Croatian Parliament, I will look only at what is most important and comment on the name of the CNS. So, we welcome the absolute intensities of the law to dissipate the work of the judges and to leave the simple proceedings to court advisers and welcome the initiative in the introduction of authorised registries. It is logical that these officials perform simple extra-parisal procedures, and that we disburse judges from such trivial activities and leave them to conduct only complex registration procedures. This law has also made an effort to remove weaknesses and shortcomings in the process of printing entities, legal entities from the court register, and this law provides, among other things, for the possibility of investing objections both to the registration entity itself and to interested parties. What we notice and leave as an open question in our professions until the second reading to the legislator of the law is a possible obligation and a written delivery in the usual way. Therefore, when a legal entity enters the process of deleting from the court register, except for the publication itself on the website of the court register, it might be good to also introduce an attempt to make the usual delivery of a court note. It is precisely possible to avoid some cases that were referred to in the case by a colleague from Labour because we have cases that in practice there was also the erasure of subjects who did not look at the websites on time, and for example they had a situation that they had open claims to others and they had obligations to the state and to other believers. Therefore, I stress with the mandatory of course advertising on the court's websites to consider also the possibility of including the classic model of writing delivery. We also welcome the introduction of the possibility of electronic enrolment as well as the possibility for HITRO employees to perform the same. We consider the law in the shortest lines a correction of everything that has come to pass in the meantime as a weakness. We believe that its adoption and application of its provisions will simplify and speed up the work of the court register, remove some of the things that have occurred. For these reasons, the HNS club will uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49303	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49304	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the Law on the Court Register I'd say here under quotes belongs to "unattractive laws" if you can even talk about laws in those terms. However, this law certainly has very important consequences in real life, the availability and transparency of data to the court registry is of great importance both to economic operators and citizens. When we go... business with some company one of the first things we're going to look at is the court register, what is the basic capital of society, who are persons authorized to enter so legal relations, changing the status issues of society is information of crucial importance if we go into business with some economic operator. The rapid and timely entry into the court register of all these relevant information about the company and the easy availability of such data are tasks which the system simply has to provide. Supplements and amendments to this law I would say create additional conditions for fulfilling these tasks. In particular, these are provisions that further strengthen the principle of e-Government and empowerment of this principle have also invited me to engage here in the debate. Thus, the opening provisions show that there is an additional significant deviation in this direction when defining the meaning of certain expressions. The system... register, for example, is now defined as a complex information system which broadly connects all commercial courts to other databases. The single registration database now provides for the electronic storage of different data of the register courts both as a document and in the collection of documents. The website of the register is now defined as part of the system of registers by which public data which are entered in the register is searched, the concept of e-business is defined, further regulated that the application for registration in the register and the submission requesting the storage of the submission can be submitted in the form of an electronic document or electronic submission. The news is that it can be done through the Office HItro.HR. The electronic application or submission signed by an advanced electronic signature of the public notary shall be considered a publicly certified document. I read all of this because these provisions are avant-garde to me in terms of the introduction of the principle of e-government into the work of state bodies. I would certainly recommend this introduction of the principle of eGovernment to the fullest extent possible and to the extent that changes and other laws of special procedural law would allow as much direct electronic communication as possible between citizens, authorities of the state administration, judicial authorities and companies. I would especially recommend this with regard to those laws governing the ways of that communication between these entities. I think there is no obstacle to such principles being introduced as clearly as possible, leaving opportunities for citizens who do not have access to electronic communications to continue to have the possibility of traditional communication by written means. When we talk about certain laws, I particularly think about the provisions of the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Procedural Procedure, which has already moved a lot in the introduction of this principle in the right direction. We recently had a proposal for a Law on the ID where I made some remarks about the possibility of introducing the principle of eGovernment and it seems to me that these and similar laws could be the subject of improvement in this regard. Enabling electronic communication between the citizens of the company and the public administration but also between the state authorities is costing procedures, saving time and money, and ultimately enables effective exercise and protection of rights. When we talk about enabling such communication between the state authorities and connecting the database and the availability of the database to the state bodies for which it is useful, it is even more important for the efficiency and speed of the operation of the state apparatus. It is obvious that the team at the Ministry of Justice has taken note of the importance of introducing this principle which I am talking about the practice of the work of state bodies and therefore I appeal to the Ministry and the Minister and the Deputy Minister to introduce this principle in further drafts of the law and to stress the importance of introducing this principle in mutual cooperation with other ministries. For example, the introduction of such a principle in the work of the administration can significantly contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary itself. There is still communication between administrative and judicial authorities when e.g. It is necessary to provide certain data with a traditional written procedure which may take days and may significantly detach and make it difficult to do so. The law also introduces some other rationalisations to be welcomed, and I also propose that I try to expand to other areas. This gives greater opportunity for work and decision-making to professionals in court who are not judges. In particular, the possibility of a judicial adviser or an authorised registrant deciding in the first instance in certain cases is extended. This is fully in line with comparative practice in other countries and will contribute to a faster and more efficient resolution of cases related to the court register. We have already noticed this trend in proposing other regulations. The principle that judges should deal with matters of greater complexity and control only the decision on the subject of lower complexity is a principle that should certainly be supported in this law, but also in other laws that will regulate procedural matter. There are too many judges that we can notice by the lewd things that have little meaning, and some are even very administrative, and this is certainly a good direction. For example, recently I was contacted by one person who has a dispute regarding the disturbance of property and which has been going on for two years, which is absurd, and it is about thirty squares of land not particularly valuable. I therefore certainly support this bill and repeat the appeal that the basic principles set out in this law relating to the introduction of eGovernment and in particular this principle which goes towards the discharging of judges and the transfer of certain treatment to judicial advisers and other persons who are qualified to do so are considered a good example, and I suggest that this principle be applied in other areas and even proposed in certain inter-resorships, in particular, by the Ministry of Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49305	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the closing word of Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49306	Well, here, thank you very much. Thank you for understanding and for supporting this part of the topic. What was set aside as perhaps doubtful was the question of examinations for authorised registries. We believe that this is certainly the added value in the work and these officers and also for the court and above all for the parties. To pass an additional exam can be only a value more than a value less and we, precisely because of the scope of the jobs we have entrusted, or we foresee in the law that we trust them with authorised registries, believe that this exam is necessary. This development of Article 70 by detailing the erasure process is precisely a desire to avoid the harmful consequences of the erasure you spoke of. Of course, the reasons for erasing are taxing and are very clear. There are also very clear reasons for... Pre-curricular settlements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if we are talking about a business subject who is over-indebted or who, on the other hand, could not collect certain claims, there can be no obstacle to the erasure process. It's very accurate. It's clear when the erasure procedure is carried out. And circumstances that could potentially affect the non-explication process may be the reason for the party's objection. Of course, we are now going back to that issue of delivery or e-delivery. We believe that real life has gone far beyond our legal provisions and legal norms. The rules of procedure of entities operating and operating on the market shall act in electronic form, i.e. on the Internet. So it is not necessary and necessary that we rely on the delivery of letters if most of those who actually work and operate on the Internet. An insight into the court register should be determined by the habit of each entity to control both its situation and its very existence through the register. So if the conditions for erasing are met and anyone doing a very good job knows whether or not he meets the conditions for erasure, I think he should know, then he also knows there's a danger of opening up his erasure process and he can check it online. If he thinks there's a reason he should make a statement, he'll make a statement, and then the delivery will go the normal way. We took all these reasons very well and brought them into a relationship. And we believe that the need to operate much faster and more efficiently than the laws have allowed so far, requires that these provisions also be incorporated that allow business entities to operate more efficiently and faster. Here it is, in short, and of course all the remarks that will be made between the first and second readings will continue to be carefully considered as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49307	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49308	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, first reading, P.Z. No. 439. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49309	We will discuss: - Proposal for a law on free legal aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 441; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. And on behalf of the promoter, the proposal will explain Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49310	Thank you very much. Here is an effort in short, so we have arranged the subject of free legal aid under the May 2008 Law of Free Legal Assistance. He went into effect in June. What we have seen as difficulties in implementing the provisions of this law are the complexity of the legal aid procedure, the relatively narrow circle of users of free legal aid, the limited scope of legal problems on which legal aid can be granted. The property criteria are quite strictly laid down. Of course, citizens are not sufficiently informed about this possibility and the funding system is not defined as it should have been. The consequences of this situation from 2008 to today are pretty bad because one bad financial effect is created, so the ideas and the approved funds for free legal aid are less and less realised for these reasons. And then the budget projections show that for the intended service of free legal assistance from the imagined higher amount, the amount used is much lower then the projection for free legal aid is reduced in the following year, then further decreases in the next year. On the one hand, we too have an increase in potential users because of the difficult social situation and the growing legal problems affecting citizens and on the other hand we have a rapid reduction in the appropriations because given the current situation, there is no use. And the result of this is that in the period from 2009 to today, we reduced the planned amount for free legal aid by 78%. So, by 78% due to a small realization, we reduced the amount envisaged for free legal aid and it is a great difficulty for us and for the functioning of the system in general. On the other hand, the number of applications submitted increased by a 55% from 2009 to 2012. And that's one discretion that creates the necessity to set up the system in a different way and edit it. What we were trying to bridge, so on one side of the budget and the inability to allocate much more resources than we've singled out, resulted in the idea and affirmation of the project financing system. In fact, we split free legal aid into primary and secondary. The primary one is considered important, and we even place an emphasis on it, not only because the citizen at times when he has a legal problem which he cannot finance or resolve, is the most important good and precise and adequate advice, not only for that reason but for the reason that the judiciary is so burdened that any possibility of resolving the dispute by peaceful means or preventing the next court procedure is worth every consideration. Therefore, through primary legal aid, they would affirm the system of targeted, project financing because primary legal aid providers under this law can, within the framework of their activities and in the framework of activities to deal with, provide funds from other sources, not only from the budget. We have therefore clearly defined who are those who could provide primary legal assistance, these are offices, they are authorised associations and they are government partners in this part of us, and we believe that they have actually made a good contribution to the protection of particularly vulnerable groups, victims of violence, women, children, etc. We also have a system of legal clinics, it's a relatively new system, but it has revived to the extent that it can in any case take very sovereignly and professionally what it needs, hence primary legal aid. The secondary legal aid that comes down to what we normally think about legal aid means representing parties before the competent authority or the court is the one which is in the power of an attorney only. So if we haven't already made it through the primary legal aid system to come to a settlement or to prevent a court dispute, then if the party already has to resolve its case, then it deserves that level of professional assistance to be provided just by a lawyer as the most professional person in the system. We have left these parallel systems in the sense that we have the exemption for fees and the exemption for court costs, so in the legal assistance system the person who is in danger and who is entitled to legal aid represents in primary aid or in the secondary one who systematically monitors it, so that it is exempt from all the costs that appear here. We have expanded the circle of users of free legal aid, so we are for foreigners who have left the presumption of reciprocity with us. We have strangers on temporary stay, with them we have kept the obligation of mutuality. We also extended the right to free legal aid for every child who is not a Croatian citizen of course, which was found in Croatia without the escort of an adult. Legal assistance also receives victims of a crime of violence without establishing a special property situation in relation to the compensation proceedings resulting from this crime of violence. The possibility of providing primary legal assistance is not limited at all, so it is possible in any legal matter. We have also simplified the procedure in the sense that primary legal aid can be requested and implemented through direct address to the primary legal aid provider. There is no need here for any further formalisation of this process, no special additional solution, with the fact that, of course, the Ministry of Justice retains control of work as a supervisory body. We have also expanded the form of providing primary legal assistance to the assembly of submissions or general legal information concerning the European Court of Human Rights and other international organisations precisely to ensure full legal protection for our citizens now that we are part of the European Community. We also developed specific criteria with regard to cases in which legal aid is provided and subjective to the property status of the person applying for the approval of free legal aid. These reasons are very detailed and what we may be able to highlight, and we have managed in this law in particular by that fact, so we have parties that are formally owned, or have certain assets in a formal sense but cannot dispose of that property. If, for objective reasons, the party cannot dispose of the property it belongs to, it may also apply for free legal aid. Of course, this objective reason will be judged depending on the specific case, but we know very well from practice what objective reasons they are, so I think that decision in concrete cases will not be a problem and will not be unverified in any case. We also have certain items or procedures in which property censorship is again excluded because it is such a weight or type of object to justify free legal aid. And what's also important, what we wanted to make easier, so the parties have had a lot of difficulties so far because other than having a problem with a legally unresolved issue that requires free legal aid, they were still required to collect information about their assets, i.e. that they do not have the property. Now we've simplified it so much that the office collects the data that matters, and it's no longer the party's duty. In the case of secondary legal aid, lawyers provide. We have made it very clear that these lawyers are elected according to the order in the list of Croatian bar lawyers. This is an opportunity to highlight the excellent cooperation we have with the Croatian Bar Association in the sense that, before this law, we have reached agreement and compromise with them on providing free legal assistance to persons in detention procedures, so children in maintenance procedures, and we are also working on a specific type of case being monitored by lawyers who are especially for this topic professional and willing, and here I think most of all about the subject of women's position or the protection of women from property violence and from any other matter. Well, I believe we'll get a higher level of specialization here, too, which is definitely necessary. This is, of course, the same first reading, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49311	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HNS club, counterpart Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49312	Thank you, Madam Vice President, thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. We have yet another one of the laws that we are harmonising with EU legislation and another law that improves our own legislation. The deputy minister spoke in detail about the law itself and the importance and the changes. I will only single out the highlights that are important to us in the Croatian People's Party to the Liberal Democrats and our club. This law simplifies and speeds up the process of obtaining a free legal aid service that enables the state of Croatia to give people a weaker property situation. Currently, the system of free legal assistance is largely inadequate and dysfunctional, the procedure is complex, the circle of users is narrow, the scope of legal problems in which legal aid can be approved and strict property criteria is limited. This bill, among other things, comes from the fact that it is the right to equality all before the law that is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal also understands primary and secondary legal assistance. Procedures, censorships for the approval or refusal of legal assistance with certain deadlines and related legal medicinal products shall be prescribed. The legal relations of all actors involved in the free legal assistance process in proceedings before administrative authorities and courts shall be governed by adequate forms. The law transposes in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia the EU Council Directive on improving access to justice in cross-border disputes to lay down minimum common rules on legal aid in such disputes. The supervision of the professional and responsible provision of legal assistance shall be determined, as well as the possibility of the replacement of a lawyer in the unprofessional or unconscious provision of legal assistance. We in the HNS would have singled out some of the articles that we consider to be, that it is important to pay particular attention to them. One article is the first article of Article 17 of the Law, which solves all complaints and objections to the Administrative dispute the application for free legal aid within 15 days, or possibly 30, and 38 days, at the very least. Article 18 also determines the urgency of competent authorities and legal persons who have the data of persons who are obliged to provide data within three days. If only that were the case in some other proceedings before the authorities of the state administration, but I believe that we will soon experience it, and probably especially when we establish the full application of the OIB. Article 46 provides that by 30 April the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the exercise of the right to legal assistance. Article 47 sets out the establishment of the Committee for Legal Assistance as the advisory body of the Ministry of Justice. The commission has 7 members representing 2 representatives of the Ministry of Justice, one representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Administration and 1 representative of the major law schools in the Republic of Croatia, a representative of the Croatian bar and authorised associations. It should be pointed out that this law is one of the laws that we position as a state with a clear definition of the social state, and as a society with a firm decision that we want equality and justice as a permanent state in society. We Liberals consider it free only that individual or individual, who is self-aware and responsible for himself and his own life fate. The freest individuals, or individuals, are the ones who fully decide their own ambitions and realize them according to their talents and desires. Today’s societies and states, and the modern way of life in them, are too complex and demanding for an individual, or individual, to be able or able to accomplish himself without the help of the State. The state therefore has as one of its tasks to raise awareness for individuals that they are alone with their abilities but also with their work and activities simply have a responsibility to take care of themselves and their fates. This clearly means that the state must enable individuals and individuals to be defined and fully realized. In doing so, citizens and citizens as self-aware individuals are fully responsible for their successes and failures and bear full responsibility for themselves, clearly expanding for their family, and further for the tight and wider community. However, regardless of the above, there are fewer citizens and citizens who are not fully able to solve their own problems. The state is obliged to offer these and such citizens and to provide assistance so that they can continue to function as equal individuals in society. One form of such assistance is also free legal aid. Free legal aid for our fellow citizens of a weaker property balances the positions of everyone in such an important area as the judicial process. The trial is an institute that the state has established for its citizens so that they can rule out justice and justice for themselves and for their own. The trial shall ensure that all entities, facilities, balance the relationship of justice and justice, and that they receive satisfaction in unfair criminal offences. The State itself has an obligation through public public authorities, i.e. judicial procedures, to ensure security, order, law and justice in society. And that is why it is necessary for everyone and everyone to have the right and opportunity to access the courts in the same way, regardless of their material condition, regardless of their social or material status. Everyone has the right to professional adequate legal assistance. This law, apart from directly defending equality and righteousness, directly encroachs and promotes human rights. Human rights are universal, the human first are constantly threatened by both states and individuals or various groups. One of the more frequent threats to human rights in Croatia is the trial, that is, before Croatian courts. Processes that last for decades, unprofessional and even more often, really interested legal and judicial assistance to citizens faces an unbearable sense of injustice and meaninglessness. It is a terrible sense of lack of justice, unfair, and often not according to positive legal practices, tossing citizens into hopelessness and despair. When, for example, an entrepreneur waits for a decade for a court procedure to pay him his real money, a positive verdict after so long becomes meaningless, late, unfair, and often results in a destroyed trade or enterprise, a broken family, simply a human tragedy. This undoubtedly means that human rights are strongly violated in these cases, which should be inadmissible in modern Croatia. Human rights should be cherished, cared for, and fought for, always and everywhere, and constantly pointed to any threat or attempt to endanger them. Therefore, an effective and fully professional judiciary is a sine qua non of a just society without a firm fair trial, and we are all at risk of human rights. Right, justice and justice are rarely brought down by a common denominator. The proposal for a law on free legal aid makes us feel that we are somewhat closer to that ideal. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49313	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49314	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on free legal aid. The SDP club, of course, supports full adoption, the adoption of the full text of the law, and we also pointed out this in May of the debate on the report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2012. When the Law on Free Legal Assistance was adopted and adopted in 2008 for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, a legislative framework for the creation of an integrated legal assistance system in civil and administrative matters was reached. The extensive novel of the law came in 2011. Every year we evaluated and analysed the system of implementation of the right to free legal aid, which is certainly good for monitoring the implementation of the system. And just for the sake of systematic monitoring and implementation, this bill is before us. The existing law, despite the 2011 extensive novel in practice, proved to be not functional primarily because of the complexity of the approval procedure, legal aid, due to a narrow circle of users involving a limited scope of legal problems in which legal aid can be granted, overly strict property criteria and an inadequate funding system. After the Law on Free Legal Assistance was fixed and applied in practice, it was shown that the provision of legal assistance to economically and socially endangered categories of citizens could continue to be improved. Such an attitude stems from the recommendation of international experts such as the recommendations of Twinning Light Project, the improvement of the system of free legal assistance. We believe that new legal solutions will improve the existing inefficient and extremely complex system. The main objective here is not to dispute the establishment and, of course, the development of the system is to bring the system closer to the most needed citizens for whom the system itself has been established. A fair trial begins with a guarantee that an individual has the right to access a court and that allows all forms of judicial protection. Professional assistance is needed to ensure that an individual enjoys access to the court, especially in those cases where persons who do not have sufficient financial resources to provide professional assistance. This proposal provides that legal aid can be obtained for any legal problem, general legal information can be obtained, as primary legal assistance is extended, a circle of users of free legal aid is spread, property censorship is reduced and the procedure is simplified. The very fact that a total of 3848 applications were submitted in 2009, that the number grew from year to year and in 2012 was 7068, speaks enough for itself and given the overall and overall property situation of our citizens, it is necessary to raise this asset price. The property criterion is lighter. So far, the foundation has been the income of just over 2700 kuna per month, per member, per month per household member, and in the future it will be the budgetary basis, i.e. 3326 kuna per month per household member. These other assets of 60 budgetary bases. The procedure under which legal aid providers themselves verify that applicants meet the legal requirements for the exercise of the right to primary legal aid is simplified. The authority of the office to require the competent authorities of the data required to decide on the basis of the request as well as the prescribed obligation of those authorities to provide the requested information to the offices within three days is a major aid to the applicant for free legal assistance. This is the official of the state administration who has been assigned to the services of providing free legal assistance and is paid for not only easier and faster but also naturally to be included in his job description. In addition, unlike the ignorant party, without investigating, he knows which bodies to collect data from and the time limit in which he must obtain the data is definitely in favour of the speedy resolution of procedural assumptions to address the fundamentality of the request. Therefore, given that analyses of the current legal solution and the current state of play in providing free legal assistance have established that the system of free legal assistance can be improved from the point of view of target groups which are specifically intended from the point of view to the need of socially vulnerable persons for legal information and consultation, the SDP club will support this proposal. We are sure that the debate, proposals and remarks between this first reading and, until the final draft of the law is established, will allow for the improvement of this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49315	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49316	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We support the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the more the current law in practice has proved to be ineffective and overcomplicated, and in most cases undefined, which in practice led to major problems and disagreements in the application of it. The amendments to the law have identified key problems: it is complicated to file a request with the obligation to collect a number of documents whose issue is charged, then a clearer determination of the property censorship for the exercise of the right to free legal aid and finally a clearer determination of persons who will provide legal assistance with an emphasis on the obligation of lawyers and the way it will be determined, which has not been in practice so far, but has often happened for persons who manage to cross all obstacles and come to a free legal aid manual to do so because lawyers do not want to provide it and send such a person to each other. In addition to a number of good solutions adopted by the Proposed Law on Free Legal Assistance, there are some unscheduled and incorrectly defined solutions, so in Chapter III of the sub-title, the Secondary Legal Assistance Article 13 provides assumptions for the achievement of secondary legal aid, which they say: The secondary legal aid referred to in Article 12(1) of this Act may be determined if a more complex procedure is involved in a particular paragraph of the same article, and so paragraph 2 is prescribed as to be considered a more complex procedure. Such a solution that is not precisely defined in practice will likely create major problems. Such a provision is given for the right of a person who decides to grant free legal assistance to, according to their knowledge and knowledge and interpretation of this provision, decide the more complex procedures, and in practice we know that when... interpretations of certain provisions of the laws of a different person are interpreted differently by incorrect legal provisions which, in turn, leads to legal uncertainty and an unfair position of citizens in front of institutions, that is, for one thing in the same office, the right to do so until, in the other, you also cannot do so, means by the provision of the same article in the same paragraph. Point B provides that the right to legal aid belongs to the applicant who does not have the capacity to represent himself. Such a legal solution can be asked a question which is the applicant who has the capacity to represent himself unless it is possible... legal or lawyer, and for the reason that so many legal, sublegal acts, regulations and regulations exist in the Republic of Croatia, as well as amendments to those acts that are very difficult to cope with. Paragraph C of that Article lays down the conditions relating to the material opportunities of legislators who are quite well-defined and as such are acceptable, in order to set out, again, point D of that article, that secondary legal aid is subject to the right of persons, that is to say, the same may be granted if it is not a case-law, and paragraph 5 of that Article is to be taxed on what is considered to be an adjudicatory case. We feel that such a provision of an adjudication is not good because the person who decides on the request requires exceptional expertise from the knowledge of all the branches of the right. In order for it to be able to decide in accordance with the elements set out, what is an adjudication, and also puts a person in the role of a judge or arbiter who finally needs to decide whether a person in a court or any other procedure will ultimately succeed with his or her claims. Therefore, the legislative provision in question should be completed in a way that is more concrete and precise in determining the role of the person who decides on that request, and certainly that when selecting a person who will decide on the requirement to keep an eye on an experienced lawyer with a multi-annual internship on different types of jobs, because only an experienced and professional person can meet all the requirements put before it by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49317	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49318	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on free legal aid has established a system of providing free legal assistance to persons with reduced property status in addressing their existential issues. It enables the hire of lawyers and obtaining legal assistance for individual legal working and equal access to judicial and administrative procedures. This is the matter of the legal aid system without discrimination in view of the property situation of the individual. The professional representation of the citizens of the parties allows for the more effective work of courts and other bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of citizens. It is very important to provide timely information and legal advice to citizens at a stage prior to the start of the procedure in order to reduce the number of cases initiated by the not knowing of the party's rights and obligations and the possibility of success on a particular legal matter. The law also established comprehensive supervision of the quality of legal assistance provided as well as mechanisms for sanctioning unprofessional and unconscious treatment in the provision of legal assistance. The importance of the law is also reflected in the constant reduction of financial resources, but also in the increase in the number of free legal aid applications where their number increased by 84% in 2012 compared to 2009. The current application of the law has shown that the system of free legal aid is largely dysfunctional and needs to be corrected. It has been shown that it is quite a narrow circle of users, that citizens, and especially pensioners, do not know enough about the form and scope of legal problems that can be solved in this way. This means that the text of the law should be complemented by indicating all types and forms of free legal assistance that potential users can use. This law now simplifies the whole procedure, i.e. the procedure for granting free legal assistance, in such a way as to ensure that legal aid providers accept the request themselves to verify whether the party fulfils the conditions for the exercise of the right to primary legal aid. The law and extends the circle of users of free legal aid by taking account primarily of target groups, which are socially endangered persons, unemployed and pensioners who need to provide advice on how they can exercise their rights and without initiating proceedings before the authorities of the judicial and other state authorities. The scope of legal problems in which legal aid can be granted is also extended. The primary legal aid can now be provided in any legal matter under the conditions laid down in this proposal of the law. The forms of secondary legal aid such as legal advice, submission, representation in court proceedings, legal assistance in the peaceful settlement of the dispute have also been extended. So far, the law has established a too low level of funds for free legal aid, and neither the minimum funds provided for by the state budget are largely used. The reason was the way to approve the application, but also the prescribed criteria. However, if accessibility is increased and the number of users of free legal aid provided for under the 2014 and 2015 projections will not be sufficient. This will also contribute to a milder property criterion by which free legal aid can be extremely achieved without establishing the property censorship. A system of affirmation of project financing, such as European practice, is also introduced where the funds are approved on the basis of the selected project. The positive side of the law is that it reduces the burden of the judicial system because, through advice and better information, citizens are referred to their fundamental rights and ways of protecting them, and without carrying out judicial proceedings. The worst is when citizens in solving a problem do not know where to look for legal aid and when touring various institutions. As a result, the creation of potential users of free legal assistance is one of the most important elements and conditions in better use of the opportunities and implementation of the provisions provided by this law. In addition to all that we consider the proposed law to be socially sensitive during this crisis period because it nevertheless significantly helps vulnerable categories of citizens especially pensioners. For all these reasons, the Club of Representatives of HSU will support the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49319	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49320	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. In her speech, Dominique often used the party's notion of talking about Croatian citizens who would be users of the right to free legal assistance. I think that as officials, regardless of being representatives of the Croatian Parliament or members of the government of citizens to whom this law applies, since we are now neither lawyers nor doctors nor judges should speak of these citizens as parties. So, Croatian citizens, so I would like to invite you as a state official that Croatian citizens to whom free legal aid will apply are constantly and systematically not called parties, given that in this context you are neither a lawyer nor a judge but a deputy minister. When it comes to this law, I've been troublesome before, so I can do it now. The concept of this free legal aid is not free, it has its price, it is free of charge for Croatia and is free of charge for taxpayers. So it's about subsidisation actually from the state budget of the legal assistance service to certain categories of citizens. It would be free if those associations and those lawyers were working pro bono, which is not the case in any form whatsoever. In which way we can call this free something that has its own amount and is financed from the state budget as a subsidy to certain social categories of Croatian citizens. It's a very interesting term that we like to use in terms. When it comes to relations and the use of that institution, so-called Free legal aid then what a colleague, a colleague of the predecessor said and what we should actually lose ourselves to without getting lost like this in an academic atmosphere of our thinking. And it would be a good idea if the ministry actually explicitly followed not only papers, but also events and people and practices and what was actually wrong in that practice. Then they would know that you were following it, and obviously you weren't following it, they would know that people with these famous instructions went from the portophone to the law firm's portophone, and they were returning them from those portophones because, of course, this lawyer couldn't refuse to do a favor, but one who reported that there was no lawyer, come in this afternoon, or go to the next one, or he wasn't specializing in this area, and that so it happened that people were being set up. It is very interesting in this context to often mention that most lawyers, both according to tax revenues and according to the debts many have for contributions and taxes to the Croatian state, that many, according to this display of their incomes, are very hard to live on, that most of them are in a negative, show very low incomes, very low profits, pay very little taxes and do not have time to do one service that is actually set very good for them. Why is it set very well? It's set up very well because the risk of a lawyer taking a note against a lawsuit, so now I'm talking about this secondary procedure is zero. However, whatever he does, however he conducts the procedure he gets or loses he has his own sum equally solved according to that instruction he took over. So, unlike some of the procedures whether, which have some of their own amount so that eventually one share in that amount will get here he worked, did not work however much or less that amount defined, the rule will edit it. The question, therefore, is how much and what is the motivation of those lawyers who take this secondary legal aid and engage in the procedures in which and how they are here, and let's say that they are materially motivated. For the so-called a free legal aid that, of course, has never been. So, if we're going to talk about free legal aid, I've already said it once, so is it impossible to install in this possibility that someone is working pro bono? Free of charge. Then that would be free. We can't call a free thing that has its clear defined price. How can that be free? On the other hand, it would be interesting if, for secondary legal aid, the amount to be cut for the provision of secondary legal aid would be converted into a deduction on the profit tax. For the legal person of a lawyer, or his office, instead of just turning him into an income. If I were to turn him into a profit tax deduction, into a tax relief, let me be simpler, and then first I would have to have income in order to be able to make tax relief that many do not have and on the other hand would be more motivated than this way. And on the third hand, I think it's time and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't install into our legislation that someone can really provide free legal assistance. But not to be subsidized or co-financed by a project or by a manual but simply by someone who can do a free legal service, give free legal help. And we could call, however, some of those lawyers who make millions of euros a year and who are very well known in this country and who have law offices of 20, 30 or 50 employees and who work for the largest public systems, so if they need to be hired to provide free legal assistance. Free. It's completely free. If someone can hire 50 people to do public companies and everyone has work to do and they can do 50 hours free of charge for those services and for those people who really need that help. And when it comes to law itself, here are some concrete remarks. For the purposes of Article 49(1), the following shall be added: The commission, therefore, and the legal aid committee has seven members representing two representatives of the ministry, one representative of the Ministry of Finance and one for the state administration system, these are four. And then he says like this, and one representative of the law schools in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split, the point of the Croatian Bar of Law, authorised associations. I mean, I think it's forgotten in that item, it's probably about one college representative, a point, and one representative of the Croatian Bar and one representative of the authorised associations. I guess it was an emergency, so I suggest that it change. And also in Article 51 of the Final Provisions, it is in fact possible to open up the space of the Minister to make 2, 4, 5 regulations within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the law which will, in fact, be fairly defined through those Regulations and legal aid and its conditions. I believe that we, especially when it comes to the Regulation referred to in Article 16(3) and which concerns the procedure for granting secondary legal assistance, should have more clearly defined those conditions which will apply and which will then be prescribed by the Regulation. I think there's too much freedom left for the minister to actually prescribe the content and form of the request. Also in Article 17(2), when it comes to deciding on a request for secondary assistance, we keep it as a representative club that the 15-day period for resolving the requirements is unnecessaryly too long and that this deadline should be at the top of the chapter for 10 days if we are to be expedient enough and 7 days but 15 days at this time, so for those who most often have an emergency and need we think that it is unnecessaryly too long. Because if the Ministry of Appeal can resolve the ministry within 8 days and why should the first degree be decided within 15 days on... the request. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we suggest, otherwise alone, this idea of free, so-called. free legal aid and it is justified in accordance with European norms but I call except for this country of subsidized legal aid for certain categories of citizens, let us find the opportunity to really encourage some law offices to provide them with the right legal aid in these secondary legal procedures for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49321	Thank you. Replica Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49322	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, look, buddy, the law is called the Law of Free Legal Assistance because it is free of charge for the user and legal aid and not because it is free of charge for society. And many other things we call free are so for those who use them, and society has to pay for these things, and so does this legal aid. So far, the situation has been such that the fees provided for lawyers have been shamelessly small and therefore was the attitude of the Croatian Bar Association, which we lawyers respected, to take instructions but not to charge fees from the budget. So so far, all the lawyers who have acted in accordance with the instructions of their chamber have been working pro bono because they have accepted the provision of a service of free legal assistance to citizens. So don't talk and don't judge a profession for something you don't know. And the Ministry has just analysed how the procedure for granting and implementing free legal aid has been conducted and the following has been established, that the procedure has been overcomplicated and that is why such a law has been proposed. This makes it very easy to obtain free legal assistance, very clearly defines who, why and under what conditions such legal assistance must be provided. And I think this is something that needs to be supported, commended, because this is one big step forward. And as far as I'm concerned, there's one more thing to say at the end, the bar and this cry from your lawyer to get the lawyers to start working for free. If you were familiar with the Law on Attorneyship, the Statute of the Croatian Bar of Law would then know that the Croatian Bar of Law determines the provision of free legal assistance in which case the lawyer is, when determined by the Chamber, obliged foreigners without any compensation, whether from the budget, to provide such legal assistance and believe it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49323	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49324	Mr. Grbin, I understand your commitment to the profession from which you come and of course you have a certain need to defend your profession and it is quite justified and I fully understand you from that side and therefore you are so subjective in that statement. When it comes to free and health care is for citizens free of charge so we're not talking about free health care but primary and secondary health care, and I don't know at all any notions that would pull the parallel this way, so neither of you found any, except that you've pulled so much weight. Certainly we all have a lot more empathy and understanding towards our profession than citizens who meet our profession. Since I don't belong to your profession, but only as a citizen with it occasionally meet or meet people who have met your profession, then my attitude towards your profession is neither permanent nor subjective, but what I have actually seen in my life, met or what other people have passed on to me as problems they have. And that something doesn't seem right, when we're talking about your profession, that something doesn't work with your profession, you can see for yourself if you look at the list of taxpayers, if you look at the number of cases some have, if you look at how many incomes they have reported, and thank Minister Linić only for the introduction of fiscal cash registers in your profession as well as in your private medical offices, and of course, we only hope that there won't be a part of the income that will finally get under control, so it will really be clearer what incomes are about, and I think it was a serious gray zone of Croatian society and Croatian economy, exactly the legal profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49325	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49326	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Djurovic, it is interesting that your objection to the deputy minister that she was in the presentation of this legislative proposal was used by the party's term. So your suggestion was, in fact, that you should use the term of Croatian citizens, and this legal proposal is going towards significantly expanding the circle of potential users of free legal aid. So in Article 5, it says that users of legal assistance are Croatian citizens, I will read in turn, a child who does not have Croatian citizenship, which was found in the Republic of Croatia without the escort of an adult, parties on a temporary stay, foreigners under temporary protection, foreigners who are illegally staying and asylum seekers. So there are a number of groups or categories of potential users of free legal aid, and Croatian citizens are only one category.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49327	On behalf of the SDSS representative club, counterpart Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49328	Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here on behalf of the SDSS Club, I will at first say that we support the adoption of a new and comprehensive Law on Free Legal Assistance and we absolutely see it as a free legal aid to users of legal aid. Why? Well, the first thing, so those who need to get that help, and they don't have the material opportunities to be provided for free, and those who give it to them are educated and doing the job, do not work for free, but they need to collect their work, as well as other employees in other institutions, in other activities charge for the work they provide, or their services. I remember in the debates even before the adoption to say so to the Law on Free Legal Assistance that we had the opportunity to hear in modern democratic societies how it was arranged and how much funds they actually allocated. I remember the example of Great Britain, which sets out a very, very large amount of funds for this kind of free legal aid and considers it one of the most important things, so to speak, to put almost all citizens in the same position, regardless of their material position. So this law since 2009 when it was passed was one of the most important and significant laws in the field of human rights protection in the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the law was just to enable citizens of a weaker property state to receive professional legal assistance and to ensure equal access to the court and to other authorities of the state. But the law was not sufficiently able to establish an effective system of free legal aid, which was the basic purpose of its adoption. I could say here that here we are fortunately after a few years of looking for both lawyers and associations who provided free legal aid, who had the right to provide free legal assistance, but also citizens who were supposed to make it all the same we welcomed this proposal, a new bill that would help in many ways to make these problems that were so in the past and in the adoption of the first law to solve them. So, in addition to this, a number of other problems have been observed in practice, such as the lack of information of citizens about... the laws and opportunities provided by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it was not possible for associations and all providers of free legal aid, so to say to advertise and explain to citizens what they have the right to do and how they can take advantage of them. The criteria for granting free legal assistance were high, not in line with the difficult economic and social situation in which Croatian citizens live. For example, the property criterion must be cumulatively met in order to be a beneficiary of free legal aid under the past law, i.e. under the law still in force. The user has no income, no property in which he lives, but has the property of the country and in co-ownership of no great value and cannot achieve, for example, a free legal benefit. Inaccessibility and insufficient coverage to legal aid providers, for example, areas of special state care without certain offices or associations for free legal assistance. I have removed from the registers that exist on the official pages, so the register of associations for providing free legal assistance numbers 36 such associations. Almost I would say close to half of the 16 association is registered and is based in Zagreb. Therefore, it is clear how weak it is, that weak coverage is in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Those who needed help are far away from large cities, they have no means to transport to a larger place, for for example, the distance of return points from cities in Lica, the hinterland of Zadar, western Slavonia, etc. However, as I have said, the existing system, so the law that is still in force, is bad, inefficient, extremely complex, includes a small number of users, and it was clearly a purpose in itself. We, as I pointed out at the outset, support this law. The new Law on Free Legal Assistance, i.e. the proposal for a new law, speaks positively or extends the circle of users of free legal assistance such as foreigners, children without citizenship, etc. The procedure for free legal assistance without a manual and waiting for a solution to the authorisation of the leaflet is simplified. All legal issues are covered and property censorship is reduced for the right to free legal aid. The new law provides for the abolition of the ban on promotion for free legal aid providers, given that the ban has so far denied a number of citizens for information, opportunities for the exercise of that right. Henceforth, from now on, when the law is passed, the association and all other providers of free legal aid will be able to use the media through a promotion to get closer to those who need this help in order to make it easier. Irrespective of the property criteria, the basis of which is the monthly income of around 2 thousand 700 kuna per household member under the proposed provision should be lighter and made up of a budget base per household member of 3 thousand 326 kuna as well as other assets of 60 budgetary bases. Under the new law, like I said, legal aid could be obtained for any legal problem. And what is quite important for associations is to point out that the new law provides for the project financing of associations, so that they provide free legal assistance. Here's an example I'm going to give you a decision from the Justice Department about how many associations are, and here I'm going to tell you for this year, I think this is a decision from 17 July last year for the 12 organizations that are registered. But you see in these associations are lawyers who have passed a judicial exam. It is one of the conditions that the association could at all get, register, fill out a request for registration for free legal aid. So let's say legal clinic 17,000 58 kuna. Imagine what it's like for a year when all you have to do is pay for the basics without telling someone's salary or coming to work. Either let's say 20,000 kuna or here's a "better future" of 15 thousand 800 or a "Center" of Sinj 11000 764 kuna. I mean, these were extremely small funds to associations and all 12 of them realized which of these funds could barely pay the basic directories for the space they were in for offices so they could simply receive those people who needed to provide them with quality free legal assistance. I think this project financing system of the associations is much better, and I hope it'll be much better than it's ever been before. What we will point out is that we still need to resolve that we do not know how much total funds will be allocated for free legal aid in the budget, in the state budget. The number of requests for free legal aid has increased as shown in the 2012 report statistics, where 27% of requests were received more than last year, while the funds for these needs in the state budget have been reduced. For example, in the 2012 State budget, 2 million 278 thousand kuna were foreseen, and then the rebalance was reduced to a million and 261 thousand. This year's budget envisions a million and 800 kuna, a million and 800 000 kuna, and for 2009 alone, for free legal aid, 8 million and 245 000 were envisaged, which raises the availability of free legal aid is an economic crisis and an increase in unemployment. However, it is necessary to provide sufficient financial resources, as I said in the state budget. The new law should define the ratio of funds for primary and secondary legal assistance. For example, 40% of primary legal aid funds and 60% of secondary legal aid funds. So that those funds that are to be projected in the state budget we think that this will certainly lead to a greater number of associations coming forward to provide free legal assistance but also to make it clear that I do not say the amount of funds for primary and secondary assistance. To solve the problem of uncovered legal aid providers above all I mean areas of PPDS which are free of law offices and associations, i.e. with a small number of associations providing free legal assistance to extend the circle of users of free legal assistance to persons who are due to the collapse of the former state and still do not have a regulated status in the Republic of Croatia, citizenship or stay, foreigners on temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia. Unfavourable provisions for foreigners at the temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia, the parties to the temporary stay must have the same status as those with permanent residence and we have the largest number of issues and problems precisely of foreigners in the status of temporary stay. In particular, the problem of a member of the family of Croatian citizens who are in the status of foreigners with temporary residence and have not yet regulated citizenship or residence after the disintegration of the former state and the establishment of independence of the Republic of Croatia. They must be included in the order of rights for free legal aid. We particularly highlight the problems of people who, because of the administrative regulations of their home offices, have been removed from Croatian citizenship and have no other citizenship, they must be provided with free legal assistance. I will state here one case of Robert Ceranic's person from Pakrac who was born in '79. in the year, he is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has all Croatian documents, homeland, ID card and passport by post-correction of his home office in 2011 deleted him from Croatian citizenship, another citizenship is missing and is now in the procedure for protecting his rights. No fault of yours. He has to pay the cost of the procedure and the lawyer. In both these and similar cases, these persons must be guaranteed the right to free legal assistance. And finally, the capacitation of the state administration's office to provide free legal assistance. As we know and I am not sure that it was in the past law now office or office of the state administration in the county and offices in the city of Zagreb have the right to provide legal assistance free of charge. However, because of the too much work they have, we are not sure that they will be able to do the quality of this work that they have here through this law to say what they are getting. And we think that we have enough time until the second reading of the law, until we adopt to consider whether they will be able to provide quality legal assistance. Finally, I thank those who wrote this law once again because I hope that many will wait for it so that they can approach the court and seek justice because, in this way or by existing law, they have the right to justice and justice, but for them, it was far and very unfathomable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49329	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's the first representative's turn that's respected Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. He's losing the right to discuss this subject. Next up is the esteemed representative Joseph Kregar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this subject. It's your honorary representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49330	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I personally regard the law on free legal aid as one of the important laws when we talk about the achievement of some basic principles, I would say constitutional principles such as the achievement of the principle of equality before the law but also a law that should contribute to the achievement of the possibilities for all citizens to exercise certain rights which are threatened by them and which are disabled by their property status. In order for someone to exercise their right to be threatened by us if, therefore, a certain person or institution denies this right, we must clearly reach for certain legal means in front of public legal authorities or courts. We can try that on our own, but if we don't have enough knowledge of how to do it, it's clearly hard to do it. So we have to hire someone with enough knowledge to do so in an appropriate procedure. I would say that this law is extremely important and represents the fulfillment of the task of the state to care and care for all its citizens. I say that primarily because I think it's precisely the task of the state and society to particularly care about protecting the weakest, the most exposed. It's primarily those who don't have enough economic power to pay for that protection, to secure it themselves. This law represents a significant improvement compared to the current law. This law is obviously the one that is valid and is currently in force has not been fully fulfilled by me and obviously because of the bill that we have our purpose. Thus, certain solutions make free legal aid more accessible to those who should be able to achieve such assistance. First, it should be welcomed that already in the introduction, it points out that the purpose of legal assistance is to achieve the equality of all before the law. It is already placed in preamble and I have just pointed out that in the introduction of my presentation. This principle is therefore being brought to life, it is achieving some additional provisions in a law that extends the circle of persons who can be entitled to free legal aid. That's how you do it, for example. where a person has or does not have the value of an asset that would disqualify in exercising the right to free legal aid, he shall not now take into account the part of the property in which the applicant lives, if necessary for the achievement of the basic life needs of the applicant and of the members of the household if it is owned by members of households. It is certain that this provision should be welcomed because in Croatia real estate owners are most of the citizens than in some Western countries, but it is important to know that these properties are often inherited, that this property on the property is caused by our particular tradition, and that these properties are very often and although they are entered into land books, they have a certain number of squares. These properties do not represent a significant value, especially in the present situation, it is difficult to cash in and force citizens to cash in these properties in order to achieve their right or legal assistance. They would surely be brought into a very difficult situation if they had to cash their property for a very small amount of money, or sell it for a buddhism. Furthermore... this law, the conditions for the delivery of primary legal aid are significantly flexible and it is determined that the same law can therefore be provided where the payment of professional legal assistance could jeopardise the maintenance of applicants and members of the household. I'm sure there's a provision to be welcomed. This law extends the right to free legal aid to a child in the process in order to exercise the right to abstain and to victims of a crime of violence in the process in order to exercise the right to compensation caused by this criminal offence. Therefore, in the light of the simplification of the possibility of obtaining free legal aid and in the light of the ease of availability of the same law, it is certainly necessary to support it. Here I would take the opportunity to maybe look back at some things that don kichotovski me might try to change, in general when we talk about the legal aid system, and that's a very much related to the subject of free legal aid. It is therefore still accepted that secondary legal aid is provided only by lawyers and in our legal system it is a rule that has very few exceptions. But it seems to me that there may have been a good thing here... to step away from that principle that is therefore the rule in our legal system. Almost a rule. So we know that only lawyers can provide professional legal assistance and that's good for professional protection. If it's done, we're primarily thinking about billing legal aid. In some other legal systems, however, legal aid providers do not necessarily have to be lawyers. It is clear that there are others with us who are professional and qualified to provide legal assistance. These are certainly persons with a passed judicial exam and a certain working experience in the legal profession. Such persons can, therefore, provide legal assistance in some other legal systems. Personally, I think it might have been possible to consider that here organisations providing free legal assistance could be able to hire persons who have passed a judicial exam and a certain experience in the legal profession, which would be carried out by pro bono legal assistance. Finally, this could reduce the costs that the state budget should target for this purpose. It was about imposing an obligation on lawyers to provide legal aid pro bono. It doesn't seem to me that imposing a good solution, but I think it would be a good solution to allow professionals, who have professional qualifications, if they wanted to help other people, to provide legal aid for them for free, and I don't think even by doing so, the profession would be compromised or the professional status of a lawyer would be compromised. Regardless of the fact that I believe free legal aid will now be more accessible though when we talk about the subject of legal aid, it remains my impression that a large number of citizens who, by the standards of this law and do not belong to a social group that has the right to free legal aid, have a certain reservation towards taking the services of lawyers as now the only authorised to provide... legal assistance, primarily and... very much cost. And it often happens in practice that it costs them a lot, perhaps sometimes too much and as a result, it may happen that a certain citizen, although he does not belong to a social category that has the right to free legal assistance, comes into a situation of being equally existentially threatened because he has set out in the exercise of some of his rights which he considered to belong to and hired a person who is therefore professionally providing him with legal assistance. This can again realistically lead to a situation that people who cannot achieve free legal aid because of the fear of financial collapse simply do not want to hire a lawyer and fail to exercise their basic right. That's basically saying it's definitely not good. Citizens then too often try to put together different contracts themselves, to represent themselves, to carry out various legal tasks themselves, and then not do them right, and that all together leads to, I would say, even legal uncertainty, leading to a certain chaos that has its consequences in real life. I think the primary reason is that the current system is to determine the legal tariffs. The tariffs are now mainly determined according to the value of the case by generating higher income items where the value of the dispute is higher and thus determining how many points are obtained for a specific legal action. However certain mitigation of such a regime is now introduced by determining that a lawyer belongs to a certain number of points in some litigators... that in such a system of nature there is a natural desire to take a greater number of actions in order to generate greater income. Of course, this is not certainly the case with a number of lawyers or with a dominant number, but in practice it is certain that there are such cases. It therefore seems to me that in this determination of the problem of legal tariffs, which is also related to the problem of legal aid, and also to free legal aid, a much more recommended regulation would therefore be in the direction of expanding the number of cases where a certain number of points are determined for certain actions and certain procedures, and that a more realistic maximum reward for certain cases should be determined, so that this award is limited and there is now. But it seems to me that in certain cases so far too broad and irrational. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49331	Thank you very much. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for your supportive evidence. We'll start from the beginning from the name of the law. So, the Law on Free Legal Assistance and, at all, the Institute of Free Legal Assistance is the fluidity of European law that we have assumed with the aim of achieving fundamental human rights, the right to access to justice, or the right to access to court. And precisely because we come from citizens and from protecting their rights as individuals, we call this institute free legal aid because it is in the focus of interest. Of course I agree with you that nothing is free, even this form of help. I am sorry that we have received concrete remarks just on Article 13 because we have worked very closely on Article 13, so that these criticisms concerning the lack of definition of complex procedures must be removed because it is precisely paragraph 2 that it elaborated very closely on which the procedures in Article 13. Also, the notion that the party does not have the ability to represent itself is a legal standard that is not right at all questionable, which means the capacity to represent itself. Also, there has been a discussion of a mutual litigation that is the same legal standard that is known, but we have worked it out in detail in Article 13(5) to avoid doubts in this regard. Of course, the decision on the basis of the request will require certain expertise, and that is exactly what this is about. Our state administration needs to be expert and that shouldn't be an obstacle, that's exactly what we're trying to do. These proposals that have been made regarding the tax relief yes, of course. It's something we should consider very carefully, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you for this suggestion to improve the style of the provisions on members of the Commission for better and more precise identification of the number of members of the commission, or from where they are proposed by the bodies, we will also consider and edit them. With regard to the question of the time limit, of course, there may be a difference at first sight between the first degree and the shorter the second. We, however, see from the content of the complaint, or the objection to the decision, that a shorter resolution is needed for the second stage, because it is known what is controversial, or it does not need that breadth, fact and their determination as in the first degree, but we only agree to the resolution of what remains controversial for the second stage. So a 15-day cut to 10 or 7 we don't think that's something we should be working on right now or that's making some kind of a big difference. We talked here about whether it is necessary to determine the ratio of funds between secondary and primary legal aid. We think it's too soon to determine the percentage of the ratio. We have also drawn up this bill because we have followed the previous situation and their effects of the previous law that is now in force. If and when this law will come into force, we will follow very closely all the circumstances it produces, and also whether there are sufficient foundations to determine the percentage between primary and secondary funding aids. But what's important is the accent I said in the opening, and now I'm going to repeat the project funding. Project financing does not necessarily concern the budget. And this indication of the amounts given to the associations right out of the budget is something that's part of the story. For us, much of the story is project funding from other sources. And we would be very grateful if NGOs recognized the opportunities that this law gives to just their activities to protect the vulnerable, or targeted groups that they are engaged in in their activities, and then, on the basis of this legal, legislative platform and what their activity is, organise funding from other sources. This would primarily help targeted groups of course and the state, its budget on what is and the profiling of the associations themselves, which, of course, aim to be significant in society and to have the effects as we have said. Whether offices will be able to provide help we don't know, we believe they will and better that as a possibility they exist than they don't exist. With respect to lawyers, of course there were pressures and desires and doubts that other than lawyers provide secondary legal assistance. But we, as we were saying in the introduction, are starting from citizens not to say party, from citizens and citizens deserve what can be given to them at the highest level of expertise, so representation by professional person, to a lawyer if the dispute has already taken place. Therefore, we would not go to the expansion of the possibility of representation even in free legal assistance to persons who are not to this extent professional, qualified as lawyers. Of course, anything that appears as part of the debate for the next one will be appreciated for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49333	Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law on free legal aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 441. The debate on the text of the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on free legal aid is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 112 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49336	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs before you is one law that does not cause as much attention as other laws in the labour market or pension system but is equally important to all those who at the moment because there are no legal conditions to get employment, and disabled persons are so that for them this law is one of the very, very important laws especially because a group of people with disabilities, disabled persons on the labour market is disabled and once again, so not only with their illness but also the possibility of employment. Disabled persons have abilities as well as any other healthy person, clearly with a limited part of the job. But what I'm quite sure is that they need to find a place on the labour market. According to the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, about 520 thousand persons with disabilities are 313 thousand or 60% male and 40% female. One large number of our citizens who are outside the labour market and when we see in that group how many persons can enter the labour market according to the data that we have collected around 54% of them are at the age at which they can work and who could find a place in the labour market. We have the largest number of unemployed people in that age group between 20 and 24, so that's over 16% of the total number of unemployed people while talking about unemployed people and we have to point out another problem for disabled people, which is that their education is generally very low, 82% of them have only secondary education, and 909 unemployed people with disabilities have completed 4 years of high school. The Croatian Employment Institute records 2059 people with disabilities without work experience while one year of work experience has 1145 persons and 18.2% of all unemployed persons with disabilities. The comparison of people with disabilities data shows that there was an increase in employment in persons with disabilities compared to 2010 and a total of 1465 people with disabilities were employed. But that's only 0.9% of all employees in the Republic of Croatia at that time. In 2012, we have the same trend of employment and man could say so well, however, people with disabilities are employed, but I still mention only 0.9% of all persons employed in the Republic of Croatia, which points to the need to work more intensively in this area and one of the preconditions is the adoption of this law. The experience of EU member states to encourage people with disabilities has shown particularly important the introduction of an adequate quota employment system for all employers, the development of quality and new forms of professional rehabilitation, as well as the strengthening of national policies and the legislative framework for the development of social entrepreneurship, which has great potential in hiring sensitive groups. We have introduced a budget for the employment of people with disabilities of 0.2% on the salary which is, in some ways, a disability tax, and it has not won any success because with this contribution we only masked and bought an alibi for not doing anything about the employment of people with disabilities. Professional rehabilitation for people with disabilities is a prerequisite for open labour market employment or in protected conditions or in another self-employment model. The regulation of the professional rehabilitation procedure is based on two rules of the Pension Insurance Act and the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Two Different Systems, which resulted in a lack of systematic and quality professional rehabilitation in Croatia. Also, we have not established an adequate system of skills as well as an appropriate institutional and financial framework for the implementation of professional rehabilitation. All of these resulted in a low degree of involvement of persons with disabilities in the world of work, i.e. a large number of people with disabilities who, although having knowledge and skills, remain in the social giving or pension system. That means they're not active on the labour market. In order to make a decision on the best solution to those problems, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has for the first time served the methods and tools provided by the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations and the procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations have led to the realization that the best solution is to adopt a completely new law. And so we have launched the process of passing a new law, and you are facing today the normative text of that law. What we want to achieve by this law is better employment of disabled persons and on the other hand we want to achieve that a system of professional rehabilitation is established in Croatia, which means that when the work capacity is assessed to assess... the work capacity and that in the solution of a medical expert stands what the person concerned can do, and not what we have had so far that the experts mainly wrote what a person should not do. We have already implemented this without this law so that in the system of the Pension Insurance Office back 6 months, solutions are issued in which the medical expert explicitly states which professions a person with disabilities is capable. We want to settle a lot of things with this law, and I hope that we will do with it what we want, which is to increase the number of people with disabilities who have found a job, who have entered the labour market because entering the labour market is not only an increase in the financial security of those persons but also the return and socialisation of the person and the return to society. Working in a collective is clearly much different than being home in four walls, so this law also has this dimension which for me is much bigger than that even dimension that you get a job. We arrange the definition of a disabled person in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we also define a person with disabilities with remaining working skills. So the most important thing is to know that we need to focus the person in the labour market on certain tasks that he can do, measures and activities that involve spatial rehabilitation and which are established under the individual plan of professional rehabilitation we want to set up a system of professional rehabilitation. In Croatia, we predict five regional centres where we will also reduce the number of disabled pensions through a system of rehabilitation policy. As you know, we are the country with the highest percentage of disability pensions in Europe over 25%. We have launched amendments to the Pension Insurance Act you will have opportunities to discuss very quickly and a new way in which we can start to evaluate the solution to disability pensions and stop those pensions that have been obtained in an illegal manner. The criteria and standards for the establishment and operation of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation are also established, the employment and work of persons with disabilities in the open labour market is arranged, and under special conditions we introduce in the open labour market several employment models, so no financial support and professional support, financial support employment, professional support and employment with financial and professional support. A quota employment obligation for persons with disabilities for all employers who employ at least 20 workers as opposed to current practice and for the real sector is prescribed. A criterion of the size of the employer of 20 employees, with regard to the other structure of employers, or data that the share of small employers is from 0 to 9 employees who will not have an obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities at 92% while the share of small employers is 6.3%, so those who employ 10 to 49 employees while the rest is medium and small employers. The quota shall be determined in the range of 2 to 6% depending on the total number of employees and activities employed by employers, the possibility of using the replacement quota for students with disabilities and rehabilitators in practice, scholarship, business cooperation with self-employed persons with disabilities and the period of postponement of quota employment for newly established employers for 2 years. Employers are obliged to meet this obligation no later than 1.1.2015. otherwise, they become bonds of payment of 30 % of the minimum salary per month for each person with disabilities who were obliged to hire with the obligation to pay a special contribution to fostering the self-employment of disabled people. Facilitation and incentives shall be arranged which may be achieved by an employer who employs persons with disabilities or persons with self-employment disability. The right to tax exemptions provided for in specific regulations, the right to incentives provided for in a special contract for the employment of persons contracted with the Croatian Employment Service, the right to encourage the employment of persons with disabilities provided by the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of persons with disabilities. The activities and responsibilities of the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities are also extended in such a way that the Fund is in charge of keeping records of employers who are bonds of quota employment which will be provided through the exchange of data with the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. I must point out here that with this law, the Law on the Single Body of Art will come very soon. So for the first time in Croatia, we will artificialize in one place and all those items that are in the pension, health, social and defence system with the aim of making disability unique and that the disability rate is uniquely determined regardless of which part of the system you are in. In order for the legal text to be reviewed and unequivocal, a series of sublegal acts, regulations and such a Regulation on professional rehabilitation, a Regulation on Centres for Professional Rehabilitation, a Regulation on the quota system of employment, a Regulation on the eyewitness for disabled persons, a Regulation on Integrated and Protection Workshops, and a Regulation on incentives for employment of persons with disabilities are also provided for. The proposed entry into force of the law 1.1.2014 will achieve the need to harmonise harmonisation of legislation with the Contribution Act. For the application of this law, it is extremely important that the single body of medical skill is also regulated by a special regulation and that it starts working together with the degree of effect of this law. What we think we will achieve by this law is that in the first place we will return to the labour market all those who have a chance to work, especially when we are talking about a system of professional rehabilitation, and the benefits of professional rehabilitation have been demonstrated in the framework of a feasibility study developed by the Institute of Public Finance. The study also showed that the benefits of professional rehabilitation in terms of total costs are significant even for those who make 70% of the average gross salary because for such persons, rehabilitation costs would be covered by paid taxes and contributions after two to three years. Depending on the observed scenario, the estimated future value of the benefits of professional rehabilitation is at least 170 to even 325 thousand kuna in case of non-payment of aid during employment, or 131 thousand to 273,000 kuna in case of payment of aid while the person with disabilities is in employment. By extending the quota, quota employment obligations to the real sector, as well as introducing a payment obligation for non-employment benefits for people with disabilities, an active inclusion of persons with disabilities on the labour market is expected, i.e. a total increase in their employment. Also, employers will be further stimulated by the introduction of a cash prize if they employ more persons with disabilities than a professional quota or if they employ persons with disabilities and are not bonds of quota employment. At the same time, the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which will also be very soon in the Assembly of Persons with Disabilities who are beneficiaries of family pension rights, will suspend the payment of family property and during working relationship or exercise of activity, and after termination of employment or activity, the payment of the pension will be restored, which has not been the case so far. In the event that persons with disabilities perform their working life and obtain the conditions for their pension, they will have the option of choosing between family and their pension, which means that these changes will stimulate the work of a significant number of people with disabilities who are now unable to regulate their status working on black or black, or are working on an act contract and have the ability and ability to work. I hope in the discussion we'll see the attitudes of all clubs but what I'm quite sure won't be any club that won't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49337	Thank you, too. Dear Ministers do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. SDP club and respected representative Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49338	I would like to thank the esteemed president, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposed Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. And at the very beginning, I would like to point out that the SDP Club will support the law that we believe is going towards improving the employment of people with disabilities. In Croatia today, there are about 6 thousand and 700 people with disabilities who are looking for a job that makes up 1.8 of the total population who are looking for a job. And we can comment that little, much, too. But when we remember the 2011 Ombudsman's report on persons with disabilities and if we read the Ombudsman's report for persons with disabilities for 2012 with all the problems and difficulties that people with disabilities have in their daily lives, the Ombudsman has just highlighted one of the biggest problems and this is the problem of work and employment. The existence of this problem today is not surprising since we have a crisis and recession. And we know that even so far we have a law that ensures priority in employment but clearly it either does not apply or does not apply or is not controlled. Labour and income are a prerequisite for a independent and independent life, and none of us can interfere with that. ... The work of people with disabilities provides dignity, security, feeling of satisfaction, feeling that they participate, that they are responsible, both for their family and for the whole society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is this Law that tries to further ensure positive discrimination in the employment of persons with disabilities, i.e. tries to improve the employment of persons with disabilities and create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market by removing obstacles and creating equal opportunities for work and employment. Furthermore, the right to their professional rehabilitation as well as measures and incentives for their employment is regulated. In fact, what's the point of passing a law like this? The aim of passing such a law is the right to employ persons with disabilities and create conditions for their professional rehabilitation. In fact, what regulates this law? This law regulates the right to rehabilitation. This Act regulates the employment and work of persons on the market, the open labour market. This law regulates quota employment which has proved very good in the countries of the European Union which have introduced quota employment, the right to an advantage in employment, the regulation of self-employment of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons with disabilities from working relationships, the keeping of an eyewitness on the employment of persons with disabilities, the social inclusion programme of persons with disabilities, the criteria and standards for the establishment and operation of centres for professional rehabilitation, reliefs and incentives for those who employ persons with disabilities, the activity and competence of the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation, the supervision of course of these laws, the implementation of these laws but are therefore imposed for non-compliance with such law. What we want to warn about at the club are certainly working conditions because if we remember the report saying that units of local and regional self-government as well as the institutions of this country did not resolve access to public institutions, and by law they should have dealt with it by 2007. If we remember that we do not have the right conditions in kindergartens, schools, colleges, which is not automatically surprising that our disabled people are not sufficiently educated or under-educated. Then also when we remember that health institutions do not have adequate conditions for disabled people, then I have to wonder if we will be able to force private companies to adapt their working conditions to disabled persons. Are we going to, I'm going to give a very simple example, and if we hire a difficult mobile person to adapt everything she needs in these companies to get her to her place of work, are we going to be able to provide something that might seem funny to all of us who aren't in their position, which is why one of the most common toilets is trying to adapt. So all of this should be taken into account, and it should be well thought out that these working conditions are really tailored to people with disabilities. So we could debate a lot about all these conditions and facts that are present on the labour market, but I also have to point out that when we talk about people with disabilities in this high house, we always show a great empathy on the Ombudsman's reports together, but then somehow we forget them all together when we pass some other laws that are actually directly related to persons with disabilities. That is why we at the club find it extremely important that this law establish a quality and uniform system of professional rehabilitation in which a large role will be played by the Rehabilitation Fund and the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. When we look at people with disabilities, then we must start to see them not only as persons who belong to health care and social care but as persons who have the same rights, the same needs and the same obligations as all of us together, and with the emphasis that for their rights and needs throughout life they always have to fight further and what I want to emphasize here, that we can help them very much. Let's start implementing a society of equal opportunities. And what I want to say to all of you here at the end, so whenever we ever pass any law, please try to put yourself in their skin, think about what we would like this society to do to us if we were in their place and then we would do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49339	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have two replicas. The first replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49340	Thank you very much. My colleague Comparić Devčić, you wondered if we could and will ensure the conditions for the work of persons with disabilities in private companies. We won't. That's impossible. Empathy towards people with disabilities is shown only in situations where their interests are to be taken or promoted. We're not gonna make it in that effort. Empathy does not need them in such a way, it should show them that they are practically equal members of this society and that they are not worth anyone's life more than theirs. We're not going to be able to do that in some private sector in any way. What I see is space for action to be introduced into society in an equal way is in the state administration and in local self-government, that they have the subject under the same conditions as all others. And a private entrepreneur, then a woman who intends to get pregnant, won't take a job, let alone a disabled person, asking it publicly, rudely, and whether he means to get married even. And as soon as he thinks about getting married or getting married or having a family conversation, let's just take a look at what interviews with these big entrepreneurs in Croatia look like. The honor of exceptions has always been with society and survives because of these exceptions. But where we can help the most not to be furniture by party belongings to either one or the other, neither of us, to have the advantage of a party card but rather persons with disabilities if they meet a particular job and have space in the state administration and local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49341	Thank you very much. Replica response, esteemed Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49342	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, pal, every time we discuss the subject of a disabled person, I've been saying that this topic really shouldn't have any political omen, and I mean it myself. When we talk about people with disabilities, I speak from personal experience, my father is 100% disabled and I live in such a family my whole life so I think I can say a lot about it and I know what I'm talking about. When we talk about hiring people with disabilities, I deliberately emphasized this about units of local and regional self-government, so if we have a law that we should have implemented by 2007, and we haven't implemented it, and we don't have access to public institutions, then we find it very difficult, I agree, we can monitor a privateer to do whatever it takes to hire a person with disabilities. But I still think that from this higher home and from the state, the local self-government unit needs to go message we want, we can do it, we'll make the first units of local self-government and the state's institutions do it and employ it because believe me, they're no less capable than any of us here, but maybe more, we'd all be surprised together and I just said that we can't put them in the health care system because they don't belong there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49343	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49344	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I agree with your answer right now, and that was my replica in your debate. It is related to the possibility of insurance, and you have said a word to force entrepreneurs to adjust the conditions and ensure that people with disabilities or difficulties are employed. I think the very word to force is a rougher way of expression, because if there is a law, then there is a obligation, and what's said is higher than non-compliance by the state, state institutions, local self-government or regional approach, the ability to work is something that is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the state, and part of the Croatian Parliament, and I think it's a priority because in this way, and when we do it not because we have to force state institutions or local self-government, but just to implement the laws as we implement them in many other segments as this coalition government works, then we achieve something called the standard. A standard that is related to ethics, a standard that is related to social sensitivity, and then we won't get into situations that sometimes companies use part of P.R. for themselves in some kind of humanitarian action, but that literally companies and ethically and socially are recognized precisely because of the way we apply and this law that I believe we will adopt and then there is no more coercion. Because when you force something then it's hard to talk about coercion and entrepreneurs today, let's be realistic in these difficult economic situations that they have to invest something extra. But when you create a social and ethical situation of one normal function, it will certainly be much easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49345	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49346	Thank you. Well, my colleague and I agree with you, I'm sorry maybe if I used too harsh a word than force him or force him to. But you know which way in life you're already pushing something or forcing something into order. I think this coalition government has decided, so introduce order, and among other things, it's a segment in which order should be introduced. If the unit of local self-government of regional states does not respect its own laws, then order should be introduced. I don't know what else to call it. And as for hiring people with disabilities, yes. I'm up for it, if we have to, and we can force local self-government units because the law where you commit them is kind of pushing them to work, but I think that's okay. It's called positive discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49347	Thank you very much. The Croatian Democratic Community club is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49348	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is today the law, the proposal for a law on rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. Before I start my debate, I'd say next. Today we heard it from both the promoters, and here's a distinguished colleague of the council who I really think says it with her heart, really, and I don't think anyone here today is hypocritical, but I'm going to say something. I'm personally sorry that you and I have to talk in front of the club and those who don't say that to our colleagues here were ex-collars here, they're MPs, people are disabled, so you see colleagues when you say they have a job championship they should mention some of the championships to be on party lists. Because a lot of problems are about people with disabilities, and let's be honest or be hypocritical, so let's just say none of us are going to say here I'll get out of my place, let's get this place taken by Ljubica Lukačić or, I mentioned to my colleague because she's our former representative or your lawyer colleague is so Vesna. No one will. Here we have no other replacements, no matter what the Vesna and Ljubica are, there are still very and very educated, educated, smart men and women who are people with disabilities and who would really still today, but I also have to say constructive suggestions on other laws. Well, here's what I had to do before I started saying it. We can't just say that nothing has been done to date and that from today on, we start by introducing laws and regulations that are related to people with disabilities. That's not true. It's simply not true, because it's very much done, and never enough for people with disabilities. Among other things, there have now been speeches about adjustments and there are, therefore, means that are intended, or incentives, even job adjustments. I'm not going to list all conventions now, I'm not going to list all the laws, I'm not going to list all the rules that have improved the lives and living conditions of people with disabilities, but I want to say again that it's never enough, so not just for people with disabilities, but for young people and for women and for us older and for those who have no job, regardless of not being disabled, to all those who are sick, to all those who will never get a job because they're old, to all those who have lost their jobs. And it should be just as much of the policy of this government to put in order that every day it doesn't run out of work 200, 300 people, that unfortunately it's only about the unemployed, and unfortunately we can't talk about employees. But here. What this law should improve, and this should be based on this law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities by 2014 in Croatia to 25 employees in state services should have one at least employed person with disabilities, i.e. 4% and in 2017 it would be even 5%. All that I was saying in the introduction guarantees the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that all Croatian citizens have equal rights and therefore the right to work. The preparations for Croatia's entry into EU membership are under way in 2007. Croatia signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In the EU, people with disabilities have the same treatment with the emphasis that there is much more to talk about inclusion in the Union than raising awareness of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all life pores and so on. The employment rate of persons with disabilities in other EU member states is 50%, and for these reasons employability there are quotas in some Member States, so we now have a quota. Here's what I'm going to do, for example. in Austria and the Czech quota is 4%, Belgium 2.5%, but we must stress that this is the quota and that level is not even there in the state sector in Belgium. In France, companies with 20 and more employees have 6%, in Germany for the same level of employment 5%, in Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, the Netherlands, Sweden or Great Britain, there is no such quota at all. The right to work as a fundamental human right for people with disabilities is a prerequisite for achieving independence on the assistance of others, the possibility of independence in decision-making and life choices and independent life in the community. Despite the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and many other international and national documents, action plans and initiatives, as well as the existing Law on Professional Rehabilitation, which we must say is relatively good and should be done as is now a proposal for a new one, but we believe in the HDZ Club and consulting with associations and persons with disabilities that they also need to read some improvement here until the second reading. Therefore, the Law on the existing Professional Rehabilitation and Employment, the employment of persons with disabilities, does not have an exit direction. Obstructions of higher employment among people with disabilities in our country are becoming less and less evident in employers' attitudes. The growing problem is the rigidity of the education system that still does not follow the needs of the labour market and does not link it to the possibilities of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we have to say that this applies more or less to all people. The problem of the lack of legal regulation in the field of professional rehabilitation and the introduction of different employment modes, flexible forms of work and incentives for self-employment is particularly highlighted. We must not agree to the justification that the economic situation in the country is responsible for such a large number of unemployed and that people with disabilities make up a relatively small share of the total unemployed. Such views, according to which persons with disabilities share the fate of all unemployed, represent false equality and poses the risk of maintaining the existing situation and denying the importance of participating persons with disabilities in the creation of goods and services, while neglecting society's obligation to ensure this. In order for people with disabilities to really be equal with other citizens in the field of employment and work, they need strong community support in the creation of those jobs that correspond to their individual capabilities and abilities. A number of requests from the Youth Employment Office are increasingly more educated and highly motivated persons with disabilities evidence that persons with disabilities themselves become more aware of the need to achieve personal and professional affirmation by their own work, develop their own independence and participate equally in the lives of the community and lead a fulfilling life. Immunity is a human diversity and it is not a synonym for working ability. Now I'm going to skip these unemployment statistics, or I have data on the employment of people with disabilities. I'd like to, if I didn't read it, look back for just a second. It is said here that some employers find it very difficult to hire people with disabilities. I can say that it may even be true, but it also has a large number of private employers, I personally know one dear wife of my friend Anna who has been hiring not only the students of the Slava Raskaj for years, but after that, she takes them to rehab, they work with her. After that, they stay and work and often ask her what you need, so you can take someone, she says yourself, and you know what people and those kids motivate you to do. And there's really no difference, of course, if they're adapted to the job so that they work and they're worth their pay. We all have the responsibility to change the prejudices and the image of which only some occupations and certain jobs are reserved, or typical of people with disabilities, because with changes in the environment and adequate support for people with disabilities can achieve top performance and success. Therefore, the existing Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, of course, should have changed because some of the provisions of this existing law are still in force and are not applicable, or their application does not contribute to the employment of persons with disabilities. The Proposer also states that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to comply with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to allow all persons with disabilities equal participation in work and employment. The proposed law as well as the applicable provisions that allow people with disabilities to participate in work and employment equally, but we are witnessing that people with disabilities are having a hard time hiring even though the situation in recent years has to be said something better. So in this respect, this bill of law has not brought anything new. When the Proposer speaks about what the objective of this law is, it is evident that nothing is changed in relation to the current law because all that is stated as the objective of adoption is already regulated by this existing law. The news is centres for professional rehabilitation, which is certainly good for the implementation of professional rehabilitation, but the law shows that existing institutions for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people are due for an uncertain period. The law continues to provide for the establishment of protective workshops, but a new institution is being introduced integrally, thanks to my brain, I'm sorry. The provisions of the proposed law relating to protective integrated workshops are unspecified, so that they do not show who will provide the means for the operation of these workshops, or they will earn on the market or there will be mixed models. It's supposed to be regulated by the rules, and I need to look back at that, and Mr. Minister himself has mentioned a series of regulations and instructions, and we personally think that a lot more things need to be settled in the law in order to make everything more transparent and more transparent, not the rules. These are important things and we believe that they cannot be regulated by the Regulation because the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation in Article 15 is regulated funding in law, and for protective and integrated workshops it is not regulated either. Furthermore, people with disabilities are scheduled to be employed in a protective integration workshop based on the findings and opinions of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. This may be one way but not the only way because such a provision leads to an irregular position of persons with disabilities who have not been referred to professional rehabilitation, and may be competent for jobs in one of the workshops. So far, institutions for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons under the bill have a deadline of one year for harmonisation. We believe that this is not possible simply, but the applicant did not accept in any public debate the proposal to extend that deadline and we do not understand why. What is well foreseen by the new law is the extension of the obligation of quota employment to the real sector. The proposed law introduces the obligation to pay a monetary fee for the non-employment of disabled persons and expects an active inclusion of persons with disabilities on the labour market or an increase in their employment. Well, now we are not convinced that the cash compensation will lead to an increase in the employment of persons with disabilities since there was a similar institute in the current law. a criminal contribution from which persons with disabilities had absolutely no use given that the money was not small.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49349	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49350	Excuse me, I'll take some lines. I wanted to say that, of course, we will support this first reading, and we hope that the suggestions we make in writing will be appreciated by the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49351	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your presentation of respected MPs. First replica and respected representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. twilight, I must say you've offered me a line with your introduction. I also think that all laws and changes are in vain if, as people as individuals, we will not really have that crumb of empathy, so not pity, but simply be aware of our environments and all those who are conditionalally different or have different needs. But a few words about the law, I think it's the law that in any case there are needs to be changed because we see that hiring people with disabilities simply doesn't work the way it should. But as you said, I agree, I'm not sure that at least in this first reading I see that something new has been brought in. And I'm going to refer to one example that the minister cited, so it's said that in a public debate right now, it's about a unique body of art that I think will be part of the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund on the proposal. I don't know if I'm wrong, so it's a unique body that's going to do the art of all the needy as much as I've heard the defender. I don't mind that, I'm just not sure the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund is the right address where it should be. I think the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund as its name says it will lose its primary function. So we're talking about the problem of hiring people with disabilities, and I think the problem is going to get even bigger because the fund simply won't have a chance so it's going to divorce, deal with exactly what its main purpose is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49353	A reply to the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49354	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Miles, you're right. If the fund, as stated by this law in reality, loses its basic function, which is to encourage the employment of people with disabilities, it will certainly not be good, and for the reason that employers, so now we have said unhappily, every honour to those who do so and with incentives receive persons with disabilities. And if the function of the fund weakens and the incentives are smaller and employment will be reduced and we will get counterproductive, therefore, reduction of employment and not even what we have today will no longer be such but reduced. Yeah, he better be at the pension fund then, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49355	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49356	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague, Sumrak, therefore, for one finding, but I am actually offered more by the discussion of my colleague Marić. And you said that most private entrepreneurs are very rarely or reluctantly employed. And you pointed out one example of which I am grateful. But what we heard today from fellow Maric is something that I am still in a mild shock. Namely, I came to these benches from a company of 100 employees, a private one that employs 50 women. Of these 50 women all, so all employees have contracts indefinitely. Of those 50 women, 7 were at the same time on maternity leave. Out of 50 men and a few men, 8 are Croatian defenders, four of whom are Croatian wartime disabled. It didn't stop us all from schooling a werewolf child back in '94, '05, and '06. Just a few months ago, I asked my colleague, Milos, to track down this man I've never even met, and we treated Srecko Josic, a wartime invalid from Osijek in a baro chamber so his limbs wouldn't be amputated. So this may be an overextreme example, but this finding that the private sector is some kind of sector where some bad people who go after profit absolutely doesn't stand. And I pray that when we really talk about it here or in examples, we talk about it or we don't exaggerate with some grades that are really, really disappointing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49357	A reply to the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49358	Thank you, sir. You're yes, you're right, but I think a colleague, a little bit when he spoke excessively, I personally said that I think there are employers who do it anyway. But we have to say, here at the local administration, we also have our colleagues or colleagues who are disabled. I personally at the Department of Agriculture and Forestry or down at the IRS where I work without a problem without any boundaries, without any, I don't know, I don't know what to tell you, I don't even think about someone being disabled, so I don't know what to say then. But there are also those who think about it, but unfortunately they don't just think about people with disabilities, but they think about Djurdzica Sumrak both about you and Mr Blažekovic and all of us when we find ourselves outside this assembly with a lot of questions about whether she's going to hire us or not according to our age, so that's what it is for you. So we belong to that one category that's not very welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49359	We're continuing the debate. The Club of the Croatian Party of Retired and Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49360	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have a good law before us, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. And what I'm saying is that the law came in two readings, to talk slowly about the whole problem, to try to make between the two readings an even better law. In order to understand this whole area, you must have one, one picture in front of you and in some way see the shortcomings in this system of professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities from where it all started, how it developed and where it all went. So this whole matter was regulated by the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act there by 2002. In 2002, we first received a separate law that was updated there in 2005. And for a full picture of the situation in that system of this bill proposal and I appeal to the Proposer to do so for a second reading lacks the functioning of this system for the last 10 years. The assessment of the situation is fine, we have nothing to say, the assessment of how many unemployed we have, the disabled, there is no dilemma, these are statistics, very credible etc. But the system works here for the 11th year. Some contributions to employment and professional rehabilitation of disabled people are being charged, these contributions are being poured into the state budget, the Professional Rehabilitation Fund is receiving funds from the budget and we as MPs do not know what has been going on for the last 11 years with this system. Maybe he was incomeing more spent less, maybe the state gave more and the contributions gave less and we as folk representatives think we would have the right to know. The whole picture, whatever it is. Whatever she is. And I think when I have already touched this fund, I think that this fund should have, that this fund is of special importance to the Republic of Croatia, the special constitutional commitment of the Republic of Croatia to persons with disabilities and it should have original incomes and that fund should be the creator of certain programmes, the promoter and give this Parliament a report on how progress is made in this sector because it is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia. So, if I were to look at article 30 of this law then paragraph 2 should be a fund having original incomes. It is not possible to build this policy in a way that the fund manager is a greater or smaller friend with the finance minister or the Prime Minister. This is not how a systematic policy can be done for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. Such a policy has been so far, however, also here in Article 30(7), it is said that the fund's revenues are State budget funds and gifts and help in money for domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. So it's expanding the circle of finance of this fund, but nothing new, we don't have original income, we don't have stability, we don't have long-term planning, we don't have the ability to adopt strategies and plan long-term paths. So I appeal to the promoter to supplement the status assessment and the data between the two readings. It is not disputed, the HSU club will support this law because if we did nothing good to talk about it, to meet this issue and it is undeniably good intentions for the promoter to launch, to try to find some new solutions in a system that does not work. Yeah, we had a so-called. a criminal contribution, one could be freed from that contribution if he employed a specific disability quota, based on persons with disabilities. I'm just wondering, and I'm asking you, and I'm asking myself, why would employers below 20 employees be released from any giving and hiring a person with disabilities and giving any contribution. Do not employers with less than 20 employees, for example, exist in their activities, do not all work in office jobs, some things and products, their employees may be exposed to certain harmfulities and dangers, the risk of injury. Why don't they finance the contribution, why don't they stay much smaller for these employers as well. If someone proves to me that they have no risk of creating a professional illness, disability, if they have no risk for this activity, professional rehabilitation and employment of a disabled person, let's free them, but we need someone to prove it before. In any case, I am always an advocate of the system of bonus malasses, and in contributions to protection at work and in such contributions, or let's say in such quotas. Here in the part may not be clear enough, it is not clear enough and can be explained, but in one part of these articles I find that intention because the one who employs more people with disabilities has the opportunity to be rewarded. Of course, it doesn't make sense for me to have such a rule made by a minister in charge of work, but the Minister of Finance, you know, because the Minister of Finance decides that he's creating a system for whom he's going to give a reward, and to whom he's going to give a fine in terms of tax burden or discharge, but I think they're going to coordinate it with each other. Of course, this is complex matter and exceptional activity already exists. Every year, a meeting is held that organises the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and if someone wants to be informed, they report their activities, their progress, or their problems. Yeah, already one of the predecessors said we have too many regulations. Yeah, that's right. We have exactly six regulations, one decision and one minister's instructions in this law. It would be good, it would be very good to have one part of those regulations or to unite two or three substances in one rule, but when you have a law of 40 articles that is applied in six places to the rulebook, to one decision and to one we say we still have a program, then it seems a little bit like the intention that the legislator wanted to achieve can be done in part and changed. I believe that all these rules will be in the spirit of this law, but it would not be our first case of losing the legislator's intention through the rules and changing. Some things are really too important to be in the rulebook and I think there are more and that this law can contain 10 more articles that clarify and replace these proposed regulations. In Article 9, you have self-employment of disability, I would like to ask why not the family agricultural economy. It also lists the forms of entities, i.e. the establishment of a company, cooperatives, establishment of crafts, why not set up a family holding because in the second part you have domestic work, activities of free interest, etc. Therefore, all possible forms of registration, action and work in terms of self-employment would be good to install. Now, of course, I'd like more than my own, I think a few people know what it means here in the assembly, which means that word on which my colleague, the twilight, is called an integral workshop. It's really a new concept in this whole system. I really didn't have to admit it to you, I couldn't visualize it. What does that mean? Who does this workshop integrate us with? Whether with an employer on the free labour market, whether for self-employment, whether between funds, whether institutions, protection workshops or something else. So I'm asking you to let us know as agents what we're raising our hand for to give us a special explanation. All right, in Article 20, we know that a special working unit, in order for an employer to establish a special working unit, the employment of persons with disabilities must have at least 11 persons, which means that 6 persons with disabilities and 5 healthy persons and that is the basic criterion. Maybe it could be less, but let's just say it could be good. Yes, I repeat with this Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment I will advocate as long as I can that fund in view of its human activity, everything that is expected of it to have its original incomes, and of course the gifts and help in the money of domestic and foreign natural and legal persons can still remain. We won't give up such opportunities. Of course, there's a dilemma now, given that there's a lot of talk in the public debate, and in the public debate, it's the Center for Disabilities and it's speculated that he could be part of a fund that I don't think would be good at. It would be a good idea for us, except for the fund, to have one Institute for Professional Rehabilitation, Employment and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and within that institution, I would accept that there can be one Centre for Art. But I'd like to remove any speculation that it should be in the fund. The Fund should be operationally involved in coordination between protection workshops, integration workshops if they are to be called among special working units employed by persons with disabilities. The Fund should be involved in the study of the quality of their work and the progress of the entire system of course with the original financial support. So, I think in the second reading, and that should be specified that these potential speculations are definitely being removed. And at the end of my presentation, I would regardless of the party membership of the fund manager, I would like to thank everyone because I know that everyone has worked very hard to advance this system within the limits of possibilities. It's not a problem or it's not a situation, it's not the social situation that this fund is guilty of. I personally participated in the establishment of Tekop Nova Protection Workshop in Pula, which today employs 25 people of which, of course, 51% is a person with disabilities. But I know that and well, we found three founders, there's funding from the city and county. But what's most difficult to break is the hardest way through to get the utility protection departments sewed into them. You won't believe it, but you motivate people to give these people a job to be proud that they can live off their jobs and it's the hardest. It's easier to pass these laws, create frameworks, but it's obviously the worst to break some local, or personal interests. And last thing I'd like to look back on, it's too bad that my colleague Maric isn't here, but I'd like to tell him very openly and honestly. It is not allowed to stigmatise and generalise as far as private entrepreneurs are concerned. There are those on those with disabilities who do it with a lot of heart and understanding, and there are those who have no use for social or private or other sectors. I thank you and once again confirm that we will certainly support this bill in our first reading and try to correct it until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49361	Thank you very much. The first replica of your presentation and the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49362	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrelja, here we really agree in the vast majority I see through our presentations. Before I give you the replica, but the replica is what you said about bonuses and rewards for those who truly express their obligations. I'd like to say, and there's the proposer, and there's us. So, the "Suvenir" Sirac facility, Bjelovar-Bilogor County, employs 60 employees. They didn't get paid for three months. They're people with disabilities. And they ask me to ask you here all public and us what we're going to do. Those three months don't pay. Who could be the one to force the founder of this facility to behave the way it should and to carry out its financial obligations to these people. They still want to work. I won't have time, but I'll get back to you in another replica then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49363	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49364	Excuse me. This wasn't really a replica of me. That was more of a proposal question. Of course the fund isn't all-powerful. The Fund is always for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. However, the founders may be county, cities. And look, none of us and not even the competent ministry or the management of the fund, so the Director, can protect us from the irresponsibility of the county, the irresponsibility of the cities that are positioned as founders of these institutions. This is a very serious job and this, this system, does not tolerate irresponsible founders in the system. Definitely with irresponsibility, that system can't live. Here it should be very responsible to know that it is the people who are very concerned about this job, that they are burning up at the job, that they are doing their best, that they are doing everything they can and that they are very proud that they can make money, their own means of life and their existence. And in this institution, these aren't big salaries, they're salaries in net amount somewhere around 3,000 kuna, some masters have more but these people, of course they can objectively cover their costs somewhere with two-thirds through production, and the rest has to subsidize the county and the city. But what they give is worth every admiration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49365	Did I not understand whether it was for Croatian society or not? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49366	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49367	Is it then a system for Croatian society or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49368	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49369	Is it? Great. A new replica and respected representative of Višnja Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49370	My esteemed colleague here's my replica relating to, it's about regulations that are part of the law. There are six regulations and one decision, I agree with what you said but I support and I stress that it is very important if you can reduce the number of regulations to make it an integral part of the law so that it can be better implemented and monitored, and we know what this law means to our people with disabilities. It means more inclusiveness, their employment and rehabilitation. So it's their new world in life, and that's why, from trusts to regulations to everything, we create the conditions really to be completely social with this law, the most socially involved it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49371	Thank you very much. ... Well, no, that was the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's the use of the Rules of Procedure, don't, let go. The club of HNS representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49372	Thank you very much. Now my colleague Hrelja ate half my debate, and you're a little guilty here. In fact, what we all, absolutely believe, we all agree but the whole public, is that this is a really serious topic. This is a topic that requires great seriousness, great responsibility, and careful monitoring and study of what is involved. I agree with practically everything Mr. Hrelja said and we support his demands, especially when he expressed his desire and request to simply assess the situation of the past 10 years, 12 years about what it was about, overall regarding professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. We think it's a really quality request that can be obtained with quality data from where much, much more can be solved from. We in the HNS clearly view this law from a position not even humanitarian as much as from the position of protection of human rights and this law is, with this law of the state decides to significantly help our fellow citizens with disabilities. I must at first express my view and conviction, which is that the relationship between society and persons with disabilities must be a priority. Always, always and constantly the first person with disabilities and then the rest of us. And in all our thoughts and actions. When we plan to build houses, roads, station, when we do kindergartens and schools, colleges, institutions in culture, sports facilities, sports organisations, when we build parks, entertainment parks, swimming pools, bathrooms, health care, social protection in law making, budget planning, local community and national level always and constantly. We at the HNS consider the first people with disabilities and then the rest of us. And it is always necessary to break down barriers both physically and in the heads related to the position of persons with disabilities in society. The only people with disabilities are more equal than the rest of us who are not disabled. As it says in its assessment of the situation in the basic issues set out in the proposed law, it foresees effective integration of persons with disabilities and other sensitive groups on the labour market. Now I'm going to do some things, maybe one of the people with disabilities, but also the interested public listens or watches, so I'm going to read some things that I think might be as good information for those people to hear. And I won't go into deeper controversy with the articles of the law. As it states in its assessment of the situation or issues covered by this law, it provides for the effective integration of persons with disabilities and other sensitive groups into the labour market, requires inter-sectoral and cross-sectoral and coordinated access of all segments of society, starting with a system of health, social welfare and pension systems through the harmonisation of education policies with the needs of the labour market, with extremely important family support, persons with disabilities and associations that care for persons with disabilities and the active participation of persons with disabilities themselves. The experience of the Member States of the European Union to encourage the employment of persons with disabilities has shown particularly important the introduction of an adequate quota employment system for all employers, the development of quality and new forms of professional rehabilitation as a strengthening of national policies and a legislative framework for the development of social entrepreneurship, which has great potential in the employment of sensitive groups. The aim of the adoption of this law is to increase the employability of persons with disabilities and create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market, by removing obstacles and by creating equal opportunities for work and employment, by regulating the right to professional rehabilitation and by defining incentives for their employment. Knowledge and competences acquired by disabled persons in the education system are often not in line with the needs of the labour market. Therefore, there is a reasonable focus on improving education, retraining and developing key and transferable competences, in particular when it comes to unemployed people with disabilities. Professional rehabilitation is a set of activities carried out in order to train people with disabilities to work in preservation and their remaining working and general abilities. The purpose of professional rehabilitation is to enable an unemployed person with disabilities to increase employability and social inclusion. For the purpose of getting to know the public about the new bill, it is important for us to note Article 3(4). Professional rehabilitation under the general programmes includes the following measures and activities, participation in the identification of remaining work and general skills, professional information, consultation and evaluation of professional opportunities, labour market analysis, job opportunities and inclusion, evaluation of the possibilities for the development and training of professional training programmes, work training, prequalification and programmes for the maintenance of working and working skills and skills in the period to employment, information and consultation on the assistance of technology, learning and work, individual and joint programmes for the improvement of working social inclusion in the community, advisory bases on changing different technologies and techniques in learning and work with an assessment of the possibilities of application, professional learning, planning and application of technology, the development and training of radio people with disabilities in the use of selected technologies, technical support for the use of the skills, the use of the skills, the use of the skills, the skills and the support of the skills, the skills and the support of the skills of the projects, the skills and the training of the skills of the institutions, the skills of the institutions, the need to support and the implementation of the skills, support for the skills and the skills of the institutions. Article 6(1) determines that employers who employ at least 20 workers other than foreign diplomatic consular offices, integration workshops and protection workshops are obliged to work at an appropriate workplace according to their own choice in appropriate working conditions, a number of persons with disabilities depending on the total number of employees and activities they carry out are therefore included in the real sector. Article 32 provides for the supervision of the application of the law for which the ministry is in charge of work and the inspection of work is carried out. That's the information we wanted to share with the public with the interested public. The proposal for a law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons should be one of the tools to reduce any injustice against our disabled citizens in the shortest possible time. This law can bring us closer to a more righteous society. It certainly needs to be a powerful help for people with disabilities to be educated for curative jobs and to make quality work, and it can be intimate for all of us to feel better about ourselves. In the first reading, the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support the proposal of this law, with all these remarks, especially by Mr Hrelja and related to the assessment of the situation in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49373	Thank you very much. Replications. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49374	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased that you support your colleague Hrelja and his proposals, which means that you support our proposals because they are very identical, and I am glad that you said what we said in the debate that you should, of course, have a law that should be improved, but from this bill, and I hope that there are the promoters that will respect it, should be more visible which differences are between a protective and an integral workshop, except for the one that is stated, and this is in percentage of people with disabilities compared to the total number of employees. It's impossible that it's the only difference between those two workshops and it should be stated in the law, not in the rule, but in the law, if the law is just standing there, it's not going to be good, and it's not a good interest through the law that we don't have organically everything we need, and the rules that we're doing something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49375	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49376	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a colleague mentioned in his discussion, as well as the minister in his opening statement on inadequate educational structure. And that's what I said in my debate and what I want to point out is that people with disabilities can't just look through health care and social care. If our schools, kindergartens and colleges were adapted then people with disabilities would have a place to study. You have a problem because big cities still have the possibility of both kindergartens and primary and secondary education and colleges, but as soon as you move away from big cities, the problems are huge, which actually remain in the care of parents and the financial situation of parents themselves, and that is a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49377	Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49378	I have to admit, I fully agree with my colleague's replica, and I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49379	Okay. That means it wasn't a replica. An individual debate between the respected representative Ivan Šimunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49380	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities should have been amended because some provisions of the applicable law are not applicable and their application does not contribute to the employment of persons with disabilities. The proposal itself states that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to comply with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Equal Participation in Labour and Employment. The proposed law as well as the applicable provisions that allow people with disabilities to participate in work equally, employment, but we are witnessing that people with disabilities are having a hard time hiring even though the situation in the last year is slightly better. So in this problem, this bill does not bring anything new. When the Proposer speaks about what the aim of the adoption of this law is, it is evident that nothing is changed in relation to the applicable law because all that is stated as the objective of adoption is already regulated in the applicable law. But these are centres for professional rehabilitation, which is good for the implementation of professional rehabilitation, but the law shows that existing institutions for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities come from an uncertain period. The law further provides for the establishment of protection workshops but also introduces a new institution of an integrated workshop. So far, institutions for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons under the draft law have a deadline of one year for harmonisation which is not possible to do but the applicant did not accept the proposal to extend the deadline. What is good, as foreseen by the new law, is the extension of the obligation of quota employment to the real sector. The proposed law introduces the obligation to pay a cash fee for the non-employment of persons with disabilities. The proposer expects the active inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market, i.e. increasing their employment. We are not convinced that the cash compensation will lead to an increase in employment especially for persons with disabilities,... that in the applicable law there was a similar institute called the so-called Institute. a criminal contribution from which persons with disabilities did not benefit from the fact that if that money was not paid in the state budget, not at the expense of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of persons with disabilities whose money was income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law provides that cash compensation is to be paid in favour of the payment account prescribed by the implementing rules therefore nothing is to be changed in relation to the existing situation. Furthermore, the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation Employment of Persons with Disabilities will not be able to dispose of this money and the payment of the money will have no purpose. All the important provisions of the proposed law are unscheduled. For example, it has been proposed that the Minister of Labour will adopt a series of regulations that will regulate what we believe should be regulated by law rather than by implementing regulations, such as: conditions for the establishment of an integrated and protective workshop as well as the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Furthermore, the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will no longer have a function, as so far as the proposed law provides for the tasks of the Fund to be carried out. It is expected that financial resources will also be provided to carry out these operations, although the proposer in the opening statement points out that the financial resources for the implementation of this law are secured for 2014 and 2015, we are not sure that this is indeed and so. The proposed law still does not show what the fund will do or better put forward in the proposed law only some of the tasks that the fund will carry out. However, in a public debate at the moment from which it is apparent that the single body of art will be a forming unit of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund and the law did not predict who would make the solutions to disability. So it's to assume it's going to be the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for Persons with Disabilities. So if it really happens for the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, people with disabilities take up the art of the fund, they will lose their primary intention, which is to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. This would in no way be good, not especially because employers are still reluctant to hire people with disabilities and incentives, and if the function of the fund weakens and incentives are lower, employment will also be reduced. I therefore believe that in the first reading, the Proposer will listen well and then consider all the comments and proposals and consult with the profession once again in order to pass a good and quality law which will not require a series of implementing rules and which will be feasible and beneficial to persons with disabilities as well as to society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49381	Thank you very much. The replica of the twilight. Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49382	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You're a little contradictory to me. You said this law doesn't bring anything that it's all the same and then you say it's a little year to implement it. And then you also say that the integral workshops are something new. So, would you do a little bit of what is said to coordinate that opinion because as soon as something is new and you say it's been a little a year obvious it's something new. And why for a year? Because we don't have much time and precisely in the desire and intent to help and speed up all processes with this law requires a deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49383	On behalf of the promoter, the closing word has the Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System Bozidar Stubelj
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49384	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, thank you first of all for the debate that has contributed to the quality and improvement of this first reading of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. What he might just point out in the end, if only this proposed law had been brought into line with the remarks and proposals of the relevant ministries, relevant bodies, and it should be pointed out that the support for the adoption of the law and the introduction of the obligation of the quota system of employment of persons with disabilities was shown by the Croatian Employers' Association, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities whose representatives will be involved in the construction of the implementing acts of this law. A lot of controversy was caused by this integrated workshop, so it is not only defined by the percentage of disabled persons in it, but it also has a transitional period between a protection workshop and open employment in companies. Companies that employ more than 20 employees are somewhere around 1% of them, have options for replacements except for that cash quota and include scholarships, admission to student and student practice, then a business co-operation contract and, of course, it can compensate for that commitment around this part. As regards the open market, it is planned to be employed without financial support and professional support, with financial support, with professional support and with financial support and professional support. As for bonuses and malasses, it is also envisaged and processed in the Labour Protection Act whose debate is at the final stage and I hope that during this session will come to your benches and then we will be able to see it actually with a certain bonus, i.e. punishment with a certain minor when you fail to hire the person prescribed by this law. We listened carefully to all your discussions, we'll consider everything and try to fix this law until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49385	Thank you very much. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49386	Dear Mr. Stubely, here's what they call it now, people are always calling our phones and saying that, unfortunately, in a public debate, protective workshops and they're not invited to participate, and they've been making their proposals through others, and so far, nothing in reality has been adopted. And the other thing is, if I understand correctly, it's going to break down the Uricha-type protection workshops and that's because for a year there's not enough adjustment for them, and they're going to have to be distributed to two or three workshops. Anyway, they hope that you will contact them again between this first and second reading and will really talk to them again to see what you can accept and adopt in your law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49387	Replication response, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49388	Thank you. Our information is that the protection workshops were included, that between these two readings we will consider all the proposals that come in the meantime and in this way we will try to solve all these really clear things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49389	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49390	We go to the Proposed Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, P.Z. No. 440. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposed proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Proposed Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is hereby adopted. Second. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please decide who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 116 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49391	We will discuss - Proposal for a law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, first reading, PZ No. 454 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49392	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Here is one before you we appreciate a very important law which, by the Tax Administration Act and the IRS, belongs to the business of collecting and processing data on the identification and collection, taxes and contributions to compulsory insurance. The law on the collection of data by insurance undertakings on contributions to compulsory pension insurance and the part-round of the central insurance register belongs to the business of pooled collection, processing and delivery of data by insurance undertakings, the contribution to compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity and compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and their payments. The existing situation has led to the collection of partly identical data by different institutions through different forms, and for records based on positive legal and sublegal rules, the basis of these same rules cannot provide effective mechanisms to prevent discrepancies with records between competent authorities. In order to identify the need for the pooling of collected data on all receipts and public offerings, which should ultimately result in a quality step and a rationalisation of costs for the state and employers, i.e. obligations for data submission, this law regulates the collection and processing of data on all receipts and public charges. The holder of the collection and delivery of data under this law shall be the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, REGOS, and the collection shall be carried out through a single form, a report on receipts, income tax and tax and contributions to the performance of the security, etc. the JPY form to replace the five forms on which the data was collected by the Tax Administration, one form on which the data was collected by REGOS. The proposed way of data collection, the existing data collection and processing system is simplified, which should ultimately result in an increase in data quality and a reduction in the possibility of errors in data establishing a faster and safer service built for the needs of the end-user. The forms we are changing are actually a report on the receipts of non-performing work, so salaries and pensions, income taxes and taxes on contributions to compulsory insurance in the month, etc. form ID1. Report on the second income calculated and tax paid on income and tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance of the IDD form. Report on paid remuneration and on basics and accounts and contributions paid for compulsory insurance, form IDD1. A report on the salary, pensions of the IP form and a report on the income paid to the tax on deduction and tax on the ID1 forms. Here, we suggest you consider the proposal, make comments and suggestions that you think will fix the law itself and hope for a quality debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49393	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Dubravko Bilic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49394	Dear Vice President, representative of the ministry with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is Minister Mrsic, in this previous debate under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, announced that a less interesting law is being discussed. However, here is this Law which we are now discussing about collecting, processing, connecting, using and exchanging data, about receipts and public provision by insurance companies is even less attractive, but nothing less important in the mission of the ministry and the IRS on the introduction of order to the state. The information revolution or how we look at it today began in the second half of the last century, and to this day it has changed the world as we knew it. Information has been increasingly available and today is a public good, of course respecting the constitutional rights of citizens to protect their personal data. These processes enabled not only the collection of data more economically, faster and more effectively, but also the interconnection of different databases and therefore making fairer decisions in different systems. So the state institutions were given the opportunity to gain a more accurate and detailed picture of their citizens, to be more socially just in the distribution of social wealth, of course, if they wanted to. Thus, in many countries, a single click in an authorised official’s state office can verify all relevant data for making a decision without collecting a dozen beliefs from different institutions that can sometimes be contradictory. In this way it should be reduced or completely deleted so-called. It's a gray zone. Where in this is the Republic of Croatia which is an equal part of the world's information revolution. We are often proud to point out the successes of our experts in the field of information technologies, and I come from a county whose students and teachers have achieved remarkable results for years in many competitions around the world in this sector. So it's not a problem in technology, it's a political will to take advantage of all the opportunities modern technologies provide. Our young state has set out to inform the public administration in really difficult circumstances of fighting for sovereignty, and it's really logical that other things were then thought about. There have been really good moves in the 20th century since the information support of the first multilateral elections in 1990 or the registration of the first 1600 e-mail address or email address in the state system or the establishment of the Croatian Parliament and Government website in 1995. Or, of course, what we're all most proud of is the establishment of a modern academic network in 1996. Since 2004, we have witnessed the development of the e-Croatian project and the attempt to implement the European project one stop shop recently mentioned Mrs Vivian Reding in Croatian legislation. It has been done a lot to prepare the state administration, many educations have been done, standardisation procedures and so on so that the system can function more transparently, faster, more effectively and ultimately more justly. But it wasn't enough just technical teaming up, it was enough to start working. Many millions have been spent to obtain information equipment for ministries and state agencies, but equipment has slowly become obsolete without doing its job. Only with this government has there been a critical mass of political will to put this project into practice. The Government Committee for the Coordination and Information of the Public Sector, led by Deputy Prime Minister Milanko Opačić, has included Croatia in the European Digital Agenda, and in many things we have gone a step forward. In the term of office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2011/2015 The Ministry of Administration and the Central State Office for e-Croatia has been formally joined, adding to the department's competence the tasks of information and modernisation, thus bringing together two separate units of state administration reform and information that cannot be without each other. The Commission for the Information of Public Administration made up of the most government officials of the Republic of Croatia with the task of directing the development and coordination of all jobs and projects, the use of information and communication technology in the public sector, and in order to streamline the system and increase the quality of public services. In doing so, the main activities are optimising the use of electronic communication infrastructure for the needs of public administration, creating a registered state by linking databases, uniting and sharing information resources in public administration and modernising the legislative framework for faster and more efficient use of information and communication technology in public administration. The Ministry of Administration, led by a man who fully understands the importance of information, has managed to launch the cooperation of his ministry with other ministries and state bodies, and now the results are slowly coming in the form of legal solutions, as well as practical applications. It is, of course, particularly necessary to highlight and respect the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, which is the cornerstone of the legal certainty of citizens in the preservation of their constitutional rights. The key task of this committee is to import the system of state administration into one whole, secure and economical information system and a lot has been done on this. Today, we have before us this Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies who, in addition to their dry name, speak of the mandatory pension scheme in the first and second pension pillars in which, by means of different forms, have been collected in part the same data as we heard from the Deputy Minister. The introduction of a unique pattern and electronic collection and processing of real-time data will allow better monitoring of reception and giving, but will also reduce the administration that has taken place so far in 6 different forms. What is even more important from the aspect of the state itself, i.e. institutions that collect and process these data is to increase data quality and reduce the possibility of error in the data itself. Thus, the possibility of creating non-compliance with the data, which is ultimately better for the citizens themselves, disappears because they are certain that all payments or receipts have been made under the law and that they will not be surprised within 10 years with a letter that must comply with their financial obligations. What is most interesting is the fact that this will result in an indirect impact on the increase in public fees, which is actually the introduction of order into the public finances system. This law and its application from 2015 and 2014, respectively, will create conditions for state administration authorities to make better and better-quality decisions on the welfare of citizens. That's why as a club, we'll support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49395	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of Representatives of HSU and colleague Zeljko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49396	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. This proposed law is on the trail of pooling of various and even similar data that have been collected in various institutions through different forms and have not been all in one place. It is very important data, pension contributions for compulsory insurance based on generational solidarity, pension contributions based on individual capitalised savings and information on their instructions made by REGOS. According to the Tax Administration Act, it collected and processed data on established and charged taxes and contributions to compulsory insurance. Such a data collection and use organisation could not provide an effective mechanism to prevent discrepancies in the records between the institutions mentioned. Even at the time of the election programme, the Croatian Party of Retired People proposed that at the end of each year, employees should be informed of the total contributions paid by the employer as is the case in Germany where they get an informative pension calculation even before they retire. This has not been the case so far, so it was only when the employee received a retirement solution. Only then did he learn that the employer did not pay him a pension contribution for a certain number of years or half an amount and then it was too late. A certain number of employers in the gray economy area still use the half-on-hand institute, i.e. a lack of control or unspecified laws that still allow for the unwarranted wealth of individuals at the expense of both workers and the state. This law proposes a unique tax, cut and contribution form as the holder of complete data collection and delivery by three institutions – Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration and REGOS. The new form would replace more than 6 different existing forms that have so far been used by these three institutions and would be submitted electronically through an e-tax system. Thus, the collected and processed data would be used by all three institutions, each for the work of their work. This way all work is simplified and should result in better quality data and less error. Likewise, better data collection control would remove the possibility of data discrepancies, which represents a safer service for the needs of all users. It is assumed that this law will also have an impact on the increase in public charges, which will be shown after its application from 1 January 2014. The unique form consists of pages A and B on which a series of data on the applicant of the report with the OIB and a series of personal data as well as amounts of contributions for pension insurance based on generational solidarity and individual capitalised savings according to all types, based on working relationship, second income, entrepreneurial salaries, according to specific regulations and for periods with increased duration, etc. The form will also have information on the basis for the calculation of the contribution to be determined by the end of the year and will prevent economists and cleaners from being reported on the same basis. In this way, the State Administration authority responsible for the affairs of the State Treasury will provide electronic data to data collected by electronic means on paid public charges for the need to connect to invoiced charges by each insurance undertaking. According to Article 16 of the Law, all the data collected will be available through a single system for data exchange, etc. The OIB system shall be open to all holders of the collection, public authorities, judicial authorities and other authorised users or having the consent of the person to whom those data relate, and shall be required to carry out the tasks of their part-time work. Article 17 also provides for penalties for applicants to submit data unless they provide data within the deadlines set by a specific regulation. For a legal person a fine of 5 to 50 thousand kuna or for a natural person from 2 to 20 thousand kuna. Finally, the Club of HSU Representatives will support this law because it contributes to a greater quality of data collection in one place as well as better electronic use of these data by all institutions that need this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49397	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49398	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected legislators, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us I would say an important law but also a good example, an example of how collecting, processing, connecting, using and sharing data can be united in one place. And we in the HDSSB are particularly looking forward to the fact that this is done without additional financial resources. I think this is one good example of how exactly all the data we have is in one place, we can use it. But it is important to watch what happens in Croatia that both inputs and inputs of data are correct. I've often had the opportunity to hear and see police reports that people falsely report their residence, that they don't pay taxes, taxes and law in that part we need to do more work to make full information true from the beginning of the entry to the very coordination of all information. Looking at and starting to apply this law I wish it could be applied before the first 2014, is this law providing for the possibility that all those who did not do their job did not pay all that was necessary for their workers to really be on the list of shame. These lists are one motive for how to collect what is necessary for all our workers but also for the control of funds related to Regos, we believe that it should be greater even though it is not defined and applies not to this law but to other legal solutions but precisely to pooling such information and streamlining of the whole business has a significant impact on reducing the costs of our administration, reducing the use of various forms. And when you hear that 5 forms are united into one, then you have to support such a thing and say congratulations on thinking about how to help our fellow citizens, we congratulate you on burning extra funds on all those forms that our people were supposed to fill out before. Our generation solidarity is important for generations that come but also capitalised savings and management of this savings, and we have witnessed that there have been failures of individual funds that managed our savings, capitalised savings, thus certainly stronger controls would help to use these funds for purpose, that those funds that indeed cost generations of savings, which we also save, welcome us with certain capital with a certain interest and certain income. Congratulations on this and the HDSSB club will support this legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49399	Thank you very much. And the final deputy minister, Mr. Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49400	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, here's a sincere thank you for the support you gave us on behalf of your clubs on the bill that's under discussion. Maybe just one little clarification about the way we're going to do it. So those surprises that took place when it was retired because no contributions were paid or only part of the salary processed and charged contributions were last, and the other one was accepted by this law will be disabled because the home records at HZMO will therefore be able to monitor and update the institution in the jurisdiction of our ministry on a daily basis. So also the Tax Administration will monitor the contributions daily. This means that each of us personally on the website will be able to see the state of our paid contributions and, of course, these donations on other records. Of course, we would like to see this law applied as soon as possible, but it is about changing forms, and we all know that it is not really appropriate to change patterns during the year. And that's why, and here's the procedure that's going to take place just as soon as the beginning of the year. Thank you again for the debate, and all the suggestions you have here will be considered and we will try to build a better law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49401	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49402	Proposal for a law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of data on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, first reading, PZ No. 454. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance undertakings is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please decide who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 112 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49403	And we will discuss: - The final proposal of the Chemical Management Act contained in the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 444. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Chemical Management contained in the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production and Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination. We are aware that the safe management of chemicals at both global and national level is an essential prerequisite for a quality environment for competitive business of the economy, and in particular its sustainable development. The adoption of this law will improve the effectiveness of the import-export control of chemicals on the list of conventions, taking into account the safety objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Further to the adoption of this law, the Republic of Croatia will continue to implement the commitments undertaken by international contracts and provide conditions for the direct application of the Convention. The International Treaty of April 1995 came into force by the adoption and publication of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the prohibition of the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. It is noted that the Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention has been implementing it since its entry into force in 1997. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall designate the Ministry of Economy as the competent authority at national level for the implementation of the Convention. The need for this law stemmed from the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the safety management of chemicals contained in the Convention in question, the suspension of the validity of the regulation on the establishment of goods exported and imported on the basis of licences from 2040/2013 with the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union should be subject to the law to regulate the way in which the uninterrupted transport of chemicals contained in the Convention on the Prohibition, Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons is carried out and destroyed. An important segment of increasing safety and protection against illegal chemical management is a human factor. Achievements in the field of chemistry should be used exclusively for the benefit of humanity and promotion of free trade in chemical products as well as international cooperation and exchange of scientific technical information in the field of chemistry can be achieved for purposes not prohibited in the Convention itself. In order to improve the economic or technological development of the country, the Ministry of Economy has taken all measures to ensure that the importance of increasing the level of safety and reducing the illegal management of chemicals is applied in accordance with the highest international standards. The Republic of Croatia will actively include the implementation of commitments undertaken by this law to contribute to better and safer development as well as the expansion of global security, including those aimed at monitoring and preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. A number of activities have been carried out in the Republic of Croatia over the past years in order to implement the Convention. The basic issue that this Law seeks to address concerns the setting of conditions for the production, processing and use and use of toxic chemicals, their precursors covered by the Convention, and ways of cooperation with international bodies, institutions in charge of toxic chemicals and their precursors. The main objective of this Act is to ensure the smooth movement of transport, as well as the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors contained in the Convention, and thus to strengthen security, control and prevent the spread of mass destruction resources. It has worked intensively and continuously on the permanent and continuous education and information of all market stakeholders and the Ministry of Economy, which is a national ministry for the implementation of the Convention, has focused most of its activities on achieving this objective in the implementation of policy, governance and security. To conclude, this Law represents a quality framework for the completion of these tasks, which I propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49405	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49406	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy. I must say immediately that the HDZ Club will support the Law on Management, therefore, the adoption of the Law on Management and Chemicals, and I hope that this little we have left that you won't hate me very much for taking a few minutes to discuss. Therefore, the entry into the European Union has ceased to apply a provision on the determination of the goods to be imported and exported on the basis of licences which governed the areas of chemical management contained in the Convention on the prohibition of the development, production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and of its destruction in which they are... Listed chemicals whose... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] followed by a regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Logically, there is no regulation, that is the reason why the applicant and states and it is necessary to adopt an act governing traffic and by an urgent procedure. So, by the rate of this law the first day after his publication in the National Journal. Apparently, the current area is not covered by any acts at all. The Convention itself came into force in 1997, so far, 188 state-owned ones have joined. So the countries commit not to produce and use chemical weapons or sell it if they have it, they need to destroy it. They shall be obliged to indicate on the annual declaration all civilian plants which, under certain conditions, could carry out chemical weapons and the inspection of these facilities is carried out by a chemical weapons ban organisation in accordance with an agreement signed with the United Nations. Croatia has no chemical weapons and its only obligation is to submit the Annual Declaration of Civil Chemical Drives, i.e. to accept inspections by the organisation. We are aware that the history of human civilization, so first of all the war we had not long ago and in our country, thank God without what we're talking about, is being followed by weapons of mass destruction. And the achievements of modern technology, science and all that inevitably goes forward in the hands of a terrorist organization pose a terrible danger. And just using chemical, or rather nuclear, bio-chemical weapons is a major danger that is constantly current and that is conditionally said every day, every day grows. We are probably not even aware of the power of nuclear biochemical weapons, or the scale that its use could cause and the harmful consequences that it might have on the planet we live on. We had not long ago, therefore, in the conflict in Syria, an example of the use of chemical resources, we saw the consequences, and that is a sufficient example to be answered by force that would bring new victims again. I think we all have to go together, so the whole world stands up to all the strength to make it happen as little as possible. This legislative proposal itself prohibits any development, improvement, production, transmission, creation, accumulation, and all of that, of various products intended for use in chemical weapons. Therefore, the conditions for production, processing and all other provisions covered by the Convention shall be regulated. The methods of issuing licences, the monitoring of chemicals with the processing of reports on all activities that the Republic of Croatia must provide to the Chemical Weapons Prohibition Organization. According to Article 8 of this Act, the monitoring of toxic chemicals is of paramount importance for the conduct of controls, and for this purpose the management of the Register of Users and end-users of toxic chemicals and their precursors by the competent authority in which they have the sole authority of official inspection bodies and institutions. But I'd like to point out, I hope I'm not wrong, to one illogicality in that article. Therefore, in the first paragraph of Article 8 it is prescribed that the said register contains certain data which are therefore all taxed in order to define by the same Article but paragraph 5 that the head of the competent authority prescribes the content and manner of keeping the register. I may not have understood it correctly, but I think there's a certain amount of cohesion in these two paragraphs of the same article. Therefore, the legislative proposal also regulates cooperation with international institutions, inspection bodies in charge of toxic chemicals and management, i.e. accompanied by international inspections. Despite the efforts to control and reduce the amount of weapons for mass... the risk is always high, it exists, there is a danger of its spread and should strictly take care of increasing defence measures against these nuclear-biological influences, that is, the dangers and the fight against these negative social phenomena is not enough just to pass the law, but it is important to work consistently on education, increase awareness, this problem will turn into something that we all will talk about, and that fight must simply become a struggle of all levels of society, both in ourselves and elsewhere. Once again, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49407	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49408	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, you who are the most persistent in the final this long day. Of course, the HNS club will support this law. Why not out of the mere political need, not out of form, but out of a true commitment that one of the greatest halls of modern civilizations recorded will be properly, quality regulated when it comes to the positions of the Republic of Croatia. And I will agree with my colleague, Milos, although I often disagree with the representatives of the HDZ Club, but this time I really agree with every spoken word, and I think it is one of the fundamental tasks for us as members of the European Union, as members of the NATO Alliance and Western civilization, that we really stand up for consistent compliance with a convention that regulates the status of chemical weapons, or a convention that should once and for all put an end to this evil. Although it is true that small countries such as Croatia or a small country of the undeveloped world were not often in a position, they did not use this weapon and its mass use was first recorded in World War I and was used by countries that are still known as world powers. Of the smaller countries, what is well known, Iraq did indeed have a practice of using first in the Iraqi-Iranian War on the Fao Peninsula when Saddam Hussein stopped Iran's Republican Guard using sarin, one of the most severe fighting poisons, with inconspicuous consequences. He also used the same type of combat poison in the Kurdish rebellion in northern Iraq and, of course, it was also a fundamental suspicion that led to certain conjectures and war destructions, whether or not there is, whether there is still no intention of using it. The last case in Syria has again led to tensions and the fact that besides directly inflicting a terrible evil, chemical weapons also triggers neuralgia in certain parts of the world. They used it more often and have it in their arsenals big, unfortunately we're not in a position to reraise it, maybe we can make our own modest contribution. However, the first law confirming the respect of the Convention on Chemical Weapons of the Republic of Croatia came in the spring of 1995, so at a time when we were at risk, which actually testifies to the degree of development of the consciousness of Croatian society and, in fact, the fact that we are a well-intentioned country, a peaceful country that knows only the defence in its military doctrine, does not know aggression. Of course, such weapons, even in a situation where our security would be more vulnerable than this factor almost to the absolute security that we have today as a member of the NATO Alliance, of course, that such weapons and such weapons would never be appropriate to us, nor would we need a 1998 government regulation to have jurisdiction over the implementation of the provisions of this legislation over the control of imports, exports of substances, components of which could be made up of war poisons, or of war poisons themselves, were put on the Ministry of the Economy at the expiry of that regulation and the legal regulations we knew, as of 1.7.2013, the need to re-regulate this issue was opened. This law goes in this direction, it confirms Croatia's determination to stay away from such weapons, such a kind of evil, it testifies to the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia to meet the international commitments and should indeed be one of the fundamental leaders of our legislator in all resolutions when it comes to respecting UN-sponsored conventions. Then there's our clear obligation to stick to it. For this reason, the Croatian People's Party which represents the political will and thinking of people who are definitely against anything similar to chemical weapons will support this law and we hope that, as a generation of politics and parts of world politics, we will experience a day when the world will truly be free of such a kind of evil. The HNS will uphold the law. Thank you very much for your attention and a pleasant evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49409	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Comrades and colleagues, tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we will continue the debate on the final proposal for a law implementing the EU Animal Protection Regulation. Have a nice vacation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49410	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Chemical Management contained in the Convention on the Prohibition of Development of Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, CZ No. 444. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the representative of the proposing, the respected Allen Liveric, deputy minister of the economy to be manifested. Amendment No 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49411	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49412	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 25
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49413	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49414	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 3 to Article 27
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49415	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-26-0.u49416	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 91 votes, for 26 abstentions, have passed a law of the PZ No. 444.
