ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34099	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning and we will begin this week's session. Since the president of the Turkish parliament is visiting today with a parliamentary delegation received by the president of the Croatian Parliament. Today, we will skip the first point of the proposal to show our trust in Darko Lorencin for his duties as Minister of Tourism, and we will begin with point 2. Proposal for a Nature Protection Act, first reading, PZE No. 301. We'll show the Minister's trust at 12 o'clock, so please, let's all be in the hall. And today we'll be working without a break. So we move on to - Proposal for a Nature Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 301 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144-150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. You received the reports at the session. The opening exhibition will be submitted by the environment and nature minister, Mr. Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34100	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs. Here, in the creation of a new Nature Protection Act, there have been observed shortcomings in the current nature protection law in terms of its structure and partial incompetence and the need to improve certain parts of the nature protection system of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to improving the structure of law enforcement and compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the new Law on concessions, further harmonisation with the provisions of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive concerning the more precise definition of the provision on the assessment of the acceptability of strategies, plans, programmes and procedures for the objectives of the conservation of the ecological network, NATURA 2000 has been achieved. In this segment, the most significant amendments to the law concern a clear definition of deadlines and a reduction of procedures for assessing the acceptability of procedures for the objectives of the conservation of the ecological network and ensuring the legal protection of applicants at all stages of the procedure. The ex ante evaluation procedure based on the submission of an orderly application shall take 30 days, so as far as it has so far. The main evaluation procedure of 60 days which has lasted between 4 and 6 months in the current legal solution and the procedure of prevailing public interest and compensatory conditions 105 days until the deadline is therefore prescribed in this existing law. With a possible extension only if the European Commission's opinion has to be sought. Natura 2000 areas and the management of these areas will replace the existing ecological network. The proposal is that Natura 2000 covers 744 areas at 29.64% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia and 36.92% of the land and 16.6% of the territorial sea. In the current law, there are no provisions on the management of environmental network areas, but only in the Regulation declaring the ecological network, therefore the new environmental network management of Natura 2000 has been resolved in the very text of the law. According to the current model, management is given to public institutions for the management of national parks and nature parks and public institution for the management of protected areas at the county level. The management does not exclude other sectors and it is clear by law that the conservation of the ecological network area is provided by both public institutions and the right persons implementing the management plan for each and in their jurisdiction. The use of wild species and the ban on the use of means of catching, killing wild animal species that can cause local disappearance or significant disturbance of their populations of strictly protected species. This section also provides for the interpretation of the law for the purpose of accurate transposition of the provisions of the Directive. It is possible to exempt from applying the criteria of strict protection measures for the activities of certain management plans of natural resources in the area of forestry and water economy if they contain the conditions of protection of nature and for carrying out agricultural activities, subject to the conditions of multiple compliance in agricultural production. It is assessed that the provisions on foreign invasive species should be elaborated in a way that, in addition to the introduction into the nature and cultivation of the offices and their imports and the placing on the market which has not been regulated by the current law. In this respect, a list of foreign species which are prohibited from importing and placing on the market the Republic of Croatia and a list of foreign species which can be imported and placed on the market without restrictions in order to facilitate and speed up the issue of authorisations will be defined. In addition to that new Nature Protection Act, the framework for the implementation of Nagoya Protocola on the access to genetic resources and the fair and equal distribution of profits arising from their use, which the Republic of Croatia intends to ratify within the next year, in line with the dynamics of the ratification process of the EU Member States. The new Nature Protection Act no longer regulates the area of cross-border traffic and trade in wild species but allows transitional and final provisions to apply the relevant provisions of the law until the date of accession to the EU and the entry into force of the new Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species, which will allow the direct application of the CITES provisions of the EU. More specifically, provisions related to actions in the discovery of a new speleological facility are elaborated and a difference is introduced in the conduct of an accidental discovery when staying in nature compared to the discovery during the performance of the works. In certain areas such as the definition, declaration and preservation of protected areas and the management of protected areas, this law continues to practice established by the applicable Nature Protection Act but introduces certain improvements such as the clear definition of categories of protected areas against national importance in relation to categories of local importance, the possibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia establishing a public institution for the management of two or more national parks or nature parks or public institution for the management of all protected areas of national importance. So these provisions create assumptions in the law that if an expert basis for managing protected areas is to be implemented better through so-called. a national park agency that the Government can establish a regulation such as the establishment and facilities which are now managed by national parks or nature parks. Furthermore, the introduction of additional operating control mechanisms for public institutions that manage protected areas, the first purchase rights are abolished in protected areas except in national parks, strict and special reserves in order to facilitate the transport of real estate. In addition, the system of granting concession licences in protected areas and speleological facilities is regulated by the introduction of a regulation which prescribes activities for which concession approvals can be granted in the protected area. The conditions and arrangements for determining the level of compensation for their issue and the conditions and manner of carrying out the activities for which the concession agreement is concluded. The exercise of direct supervision in protected areas is entrusted to nature keepers whose rights and obligations are clearly prescribed by law. So let's conclude. With the new law this proposal of the Nature Protection Act, the emphasis was placed on several things, on three things. It is one thing to improve the management of protected areas through the possibility of establishing one body, one agency, one institution that will manage all protected areas, modes and methods of organisation and public institutions will be within the framework of the draft law but also on the basis of the professional basis that is being carried out. Certain improvements and parts which were inconclusive in practice related to the assessment of the acceptability of the procedure on the ecological network and this law create assumptions for the adoption of a Regulation declaring NATURA 2000, making our national ecological network an integral part of the NATURA 2000 European ecological network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34101	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, President of the Committee Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34102	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with an associate. The Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Nature Protection Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament at the 20th session. On the basis of Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection discussed that proposal as a home working body. In its opening statement, the Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection pointed out that the proposed law brought into line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on concessions and further harmonisation with the provisions of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. The new law makes deadlines clearer, reduces the process of assessing the acceptability of procedures for the conservation of the NATURA 2000 ecological network and ensures legal protection of applicants at all stages of the procedure. The ecological network following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership will be considered a NATURA 2000 network covering 29.64% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law also provides a framework for the implementation of Nagoya Protocola on the access to genetic resources and the fair and equal distribution of profits resulting from their use. In connection with the management of protected areas, it was left with the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a public institution for the management of two or more national parks or to establish a public institution for the management of all protected areas against national importance. The development of a study of GEF's funded funds is under way, which will recommend models of management of protected areas. The Committee was also attended by a representative of the State Institute for Nature Protection. The present representative of the Green Action briefly made several basic remarks and comments from the Green Forum, the Network of Associations for the Protection of the Environment of Croatia. She pointed out primarily that it is evident that the draft law published on the official website of the competent ministry in February 2013 is significantly different from the first draft of the Law which was held at the public hearing in 2012. Given the significant change from the original draft law, the Green Forum maintains that it is necessary to conduct a renewed public debate. Furthermore, they do not support the proposed solution in relation to the ecological network. By entering the European Union, the ecological network becomes Natura 2000 and will cover a significantly smaller area of territory, which means that many areas of national importance will be isolated from the procedures for assessing the acceptability of strategies, plans, programmes and procedures. The view was made that this law should focus primarily on the issue of nature protection rather than on speeding up procedures. The Minister of Environment and Nature was given written comments and comments from several associations to the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. The following debate highlighted that the complex and demanding Nature Protection Act, whose implementation will depend on the willingness to ensure the necessary financial, personnel and institutional conditions for its full implementation. In that sense, it is a questionable assessment. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that this new Nature Protection Act is sent to the first reading, rather than to an emergency procedure, is highlighted, although the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that it favours it with the acquis of the European Union. It is pointed out that it specifically raises the question of whether it is necessary until 1 July 2013 to adopt a new Nature Protection Act such as this. Special attention is given in the debate to identify the prevailing public interest and to approve procedures with compensation conditions for the area of the ecological network and to present various opinions in this issue. On the one hand, it is proposed to introduce cash compensation as the third extremely acceptable form of compensation, which would be used to implement the first two compensatory conditions, following the example of Slovenian experience in Article 36(2). It is also held that the need to amend Article 39(1) in such a way as not to bind the beginning of works or procedures with previous implementation of the compensation condition but to allow the holders of the procedure to deposit cash for these purposes in the competent ministry to ensure that procedures and compensatory conditions are implemented parallelly. The proposal has also been made to amend Article 244(1) in a way that enables the launch of a administrative procedure to determine the prevailing public interest, in particular if the subject of possible influence and threat is not the EU of species and habitats but of national species and habitats. On the other hand, the non-compliance of the provision of Article 41(1) with the law's intensities was observed to ensure that the holder of the procedure before the beginning of the proceedings carried out the compensation conditions in accordance with the ministry's resolution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is noted that the Bay of Maloston and the Little Sea are protected in the category of a special reservation in the sea, traditionally a centuries-old maricculture area intended for the farming of shellfish and fish and fishing. Today's mariculture developed in the Maloston Bay and the Small Sea area has in economic terms very crafts and family features. In addition to shellfishing, fishing represents a significant economic activity and is an important factor in preserving the sustainability of maricculture in this area, given the occasional strengthening of populations of individual predators. In particular, the unacceptable assessment of Article 130 of the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a public institution for the management of two or more national parks, i.e. a public institution for the management of all protected areas against national significance. Given the importance of managing protected areas, it is pointed out that the organisation of that system and powers should be clearly prescribed by the Nature Protection Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Government of the Republic of Croatia has the power to change the system of management of protected areas against national importance beyond the parliamentary procedure. Article 137 of the proposed law regulates the development of spatial plans for the area of specific features for national parks and nature parks on the basis of a professional basis developed by the State Nature Protection Office. Taking into account the importance of these spatial plans for the development of these protected areas and, on the other hand, the administrative capacities of the State Nature Protection Office, it is expressed that the Ministry of Environment and Nature should be able to prepare expert bases for these spatial plans through authorised legal and natural persons. It is proposed to supplement but not the first paragraph of Article 139 in such a way as to allow anchoring in protected areas and in places identified by a specific management plan, since there is the possibility to provide for additional anchoring or berthing sites in the same areas without prejudice to the properties for which the area is protected. As regards concessions in maritime goods in protected areas, it has been warned that the proposed law does not clearly show that, other than the Law on concession concessions in those areas, it is also subject to the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports. It is also assessed as necessary that the implementation of the law would not result in a maritime good that protects better than maritime well-being in protected areas outside protected areas. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: first, the proposal for a Nature Protection Act is adopted. The second, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will also be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34103	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. It's the club representatives' turn. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. We keep the protection of the environment, natural goods and space in the Republic of Croatia an important political and development issue. The proposed new Nature Protection Act is so far the most complete and complex for implementation. The adoption of a new law has awakened an outstanding public interest so that more than eight hundred opinions, remarks and proposals by scientific and professional institutions, nature protection institutions, NGOs, professional associations, chambers, individuals and economic entities of regional and local self-government have arrived on the proposal for the text of the law. Key changes relate to provisions relating to the ecological network of protected areas and the management of wild species. The law also allows for the takeover of the EU acquis and its full harmonisation with key directives. In addition to the above improvements in law and harmonisation with the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as the new concession law. Assessing the acceptability of strategies, plans, programmes and procedures for the objectives of the conservation of the NATURA 2000 ecological network. For the first time, the law defines for the first time all aspects of the key instrument of conservation of the NATURA 2000 ecological network as the most valuable part of biodiversity in which the special protection of nature and biodiversity conservation makes it an assessment of the acceptability that assesses the impact of the plan, programme and procedure on the objectives of conservation and integrity of the ecological network area. In the face of important energy and infrastructure projects, some of which will certainly have a significant impact on NATURA 2000 of these areas. If no project is approved or not approved, in the event that a significant negative impact exists. The result of the assessment is not concluded in the case of the determination of the imperative reasons of the prevailing public interest. In this case, if there are imperative reasons for the prevailing public interest which can relate to human health, public security, achieving significantly more favourable conditions for the environment and others including those of an economic and social nature, or because of the lack of other suitable opportunities, the project can be allowed. In that case, compensatory conditions shall be established. This law also regulates the procedure of previous evaluations and defines the deadlines for its implementation. The Institute itself, the State Institute for Nature Protection, is getting much more important in the earliest phase through the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called Institute of Nature Protection. A previous procedure. NATURA 2000 is an area of management of these areas. NATURA 2000 will replace the existing ecological network. The NATURA 2000 proposal covers 794 areas at 29.64% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. 36.92% of land and 16.6% of the territorial sea. In the current law, there is no provision on governance in the areas of the ecological network, which has been resolved in the very text of the law by the new laws of management of the NATURA 2000 ecological network. The law describes in detail the use of wild species and the prohibition of use of catching agents, which are carefully processed by strictly protected species. The law further discusses provisions on foreign and foreign species. In addition to this new Nature Protection Act, it provides a framework for implementation... the access protocol to genetic resources, and the fair and equal distribution of profits resulting from their use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] More specifically, the provisions relating to the conduct of the discovery of new speleological objects and the difference between those that are accidentally encountered mean in nature and between those where they are carried out on infrastructure works and also determine how works can be interrupted and the deadlines within which the competent institutions must react are specified. A clear definition of categories of protected areas of national importance, a strict reservation, a national park, a special reservation and a park of nature compared to categories of local importance, a monument of nature, a regional park, a significant landscape, a park forest and a monument of park architecture. The right to purchase first in protected areas except in national parks, strict and special reserves is abolished in order to facilitate the transport of real estate. In addition, the system of awarding concessions in protected areas and speleological facilities is regulated. With this complexity of the Nature Protection Act, its effects will depend primarily on political readiness to ensure the necessary financial and staff and institutional conditions for its full implementation. For implementation functionality, the quality of personnel, the strength of the integrated information system, space, environment and nature, and the connection and coordination of bodies and actors in the planning and supervisory tasks will be crucial. At the end of this law, a few sayings that should illustrate the relationship between man and nature. Let us keep the earth and nature in it, for we have not inherited them from our grandfathers and fathers, but have borrowed them from our descendants. There's an excellent teacher if we understand him, and that's nature. I hope at least we understand here. The SDP club supports the proposal for a law on nature protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34105	Thank you very much. It is now up to a representative of the HNS MPs' club, Ivica Mandic. Here you go. ... I'm sorry, I was mixed up here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So on behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34106	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Resolute Ministry, has prepared the Nature Protection Act, and in its opening statement, the minister cited three reasons, three fundamental reasons why the government came to create a new Nature Protection Act. We at the HDZ Club believe that at this point, it was not necessary or necessary to adopt a new law with a number of amendments and additions but that, given the fact that, after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the EU, we will need to re-change this law in order to bring it into line with the NATURA environmental network in 2000, and then and then, in that process, to amend the law practically this change, which was announced by the minister and why he said they were going into the adoption of this law could then be passed. And for this reason, and also from the fact that it was also mentioned earlier by the Minister, which is that after a comprehensive study that will show a future way of managing public institutions established for protected areas of nature, the Government will declare whether it will be one or more institutions in the Republic of Croatia that would in some way centralise the management of protected areas of nature. So since this study, as we heard in the works, is more of an argument that we could wait for the result of that study and then the obligation to establish our respective NATURA environmental network after July 1st 2000, then it could have started with an amendment to the law, and now, if it had been evaluated by the ministry, it could have been done to amend the existing law. The second thing that we hold in the HDZ Club is that it was not done in quality, is the fact that the government, i.e. the resolution ministry in May last year, launched a public debate on the basis of a proposal for a law that was in the public debate and in which the public debate highlighted a series of objections to reflections, suggestions made on the proposed bill at that time, and that since then, the debate in the Croatian Parliament has been 10 months and that this proposal of the law, which is now on the benches, is substantially deviating from that draft law that was in the debate. As a result, we hold that the Government, or the RES, had to reopen the public debate before it started in the adoption and adoption procedure because the motion also gave up certain considerations which were resolved by the original text of the draft law. Therefore, this law is in an important deviation from what was in the first draft law that went into public debate, and we should therefore reopen the public debate on new settings, on the new norms governed by this bill. That, and I was just before when I spoke on behalf of the parent board, we at the HDZ Club agree with the position of nature protection associations that highlighted the discussion in the committee itself of the same dilemma and disagreement with the fact that this law does not continue on one draft of the law which was discussed in May last year, and according to them, it would be necessary to reopen the public debate for a number of reasons which I will continue to present. What is also on the board, and also earlier in the debate and in the opening statement, Mr. Minister said, is that this law will significantly help improve the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. We respect the view of the Minister and the Government to launch a series of investments in the Republic of Croatia which often, certainly with procedures not only of nature protection but also other laws, are difficult to remove, but we believe that this law as a law of lex specialis which determines the protection of nature should be a priority for nature protection, protection of protected areas in the Republic of Croatia, rather than a introduction to the possibility of adopting that controversial Law on the promotion of strategic investments already announced by the Government, which was partly in the debate at the level of the Ministry of Economy, which in the Croatian public caused numerous divisions and disagreements. It seems to us, at the HDZ Club, that this law, in a certain way, opens a small door to the entrance of this harmful Act of Encouragement of Strategic Investments. When we talk about the provisions governing the determination of the dominant public interest and the authorisation of procedures under compensation conditions for the ecological network area, we want to warn of one contradiction in the law itself. It is, in fact, the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the compensation conditions when a dominant public interest is established cannot be compensated by financial means. Therefore, if something is being disrupted due to the operation of a protected area, then the government's view is that, before the procedure that degrades that space, the investor is obliged to make it through compensatory conditions, prepare another protected area that enables the protection of individual or birds, or, therefore, creates some new habitats and cannot compensate those compensation conditions by means of financial means. And we at the HDZ Club accept that. However, in this same law, paragraph 1 of the article will define that: "If an investor does not make those compensatory conditions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then, then, the Resoring Ministry, at the expense of investors, make those compensatory conditions. This is absolutely contradictory because no one can, no investor can initiate the procedure and move towards the realization of his operation until he has made those compensatory conditions. Therefore, either the investor cannot make compensation conditions prior to its operation or the government should declare that it can, but then, with a clear financial compensation to the ministry, which, instead of investors, will establish such compensation conditions. These two articles, according to us, are contradictory, and the Government must state whether compensation conditions can be compensated by financial means by investors or not, and not to claim that they cannot, and in the second article, they will say that if they do so and go into project realization without establishing compensatory conditions that the Government will then at its expense. Therefore, this is absolutely contradictory to us, and this is where the government and this law must clearly show whether or not it will allow the establishment of compensatory conditions with the compensation of investors. What this law now shows and what is significant about the proposal for the 2005 law, as of 2012 since May, is the fact that now the Government is proposing that the national network, the ecological network become Natura 2000, which protects significantly less space in terms of the Nature Protection Act. Namely, the national ecological network covered 47% of land and 38.5% of marine territory. The proposed Natura 2000 network would cover a total of 29.6% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. We must therefore be aware that, after Croatia's entry into full EU membership, around 18% of the land territory of the Republic of Croatia will be less protected than the existing ecological network. By law, the bill that set out for public debate the issue of the national environmental network was regulated differently, and thus the bill significantly deviates from that law that was in the public debate last year. And that was one of the fundamental reasons why environmental associations in the Republic of Croatia are also opposed to the adoption of this law without returning to public debate. An important reason that should also force the government to reopen a public debate in a certain way, i.e. the difference between this solution and the solution that was in the law last year. In fact, last year's law intended and thus went into public debate, to establish a single management agency for all protected areas of nature in the naive Republic of Croatia. And that was written and said in the law. This law states that it is possible for the Government to decide by its own regulation on the model of management of protected areas of nature in such a way that it can be a single agency as it was in the previous draft law or that two or more institutions that are established to protect nature form at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, at the HDZ Club, we hold that the law should lay down a way of managing protected areas of nature, rather than allowing the Government, to define by means of a regulation past the Parliament the way the organisation of an institution dealing with the protection of nature in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that's a good solution, that a better solution was in the former law. I don't know why the government has now stepped down from this, and if the government and wanted to make such an important decision based on the study that is being done at this time, then the team is more involved in our position of the HDZ club that we should have waited until 1 July, in the meantime, it would probably have been the study itself, and then the government could, on the basis of this study, propose a way to establish and organise an institution for nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, and not do so beyond the Parliament. One more important thing, here's my time. In fact, I also said that on the board, and just before I read the board's position, the parent board said it to us at the HDZ Club, and here I am speaking as a representative from Dubrovnik-Neretva County for us is unacceptable that in Maloston Bay and the Small Sea, this law prohibits fishing as a traditional activity on which a large number of families and households in the Bay of Maloston. The more this same law allows in national parks, which is the highest degree of protection of a particular area of nature, to deal with fishing. And in the lower, at a lower level like a special reservation, which is the Maloston Bay and the Little Sea is forbidden to fish. For information on this area of Maloston Bay, about 2,000 people live there, more than 1,000 small boats, eggs, boats that are exclusively built and acquired so that people can live there from fishing. This law prevents them from fishing, and it is the shell growers in the Bay of Maloston that advocate to allow fishing in the Bay of Maloston to save the stones of fish predators, mussels in the Bay of Maloston, which is precisely because of the huge amount of predator fish, destroying the basic activity in the Bay of Maloston. These are the farming of shells, i.e. the breeding of pebbles and mussels. So we at the HDZ Club are asking to enable in a special reserve fishing as a traditional activity that a large number of families live in the Bay of Maloston and I do not see what is the reason to defend at a lower level of protected area and allow in a higher as a national park. It also seems to me that this law is not exactly a well-prescribed way of concessioning on the maritime good and maritime good protection regime. This law, which should further protect maritime well-being, reads to better protect maritime good in the general regime than the maritime good that is in the space and in the area in which we keep this law protected by the area of nature. It is therefore necessary to further ensure that the Government in the section relating to concessioning and caring for maritime good additional protection and to declare itself on the maritime goods area in the protected area of nature. Here's what I'm probably going to do later in an individual debate, and I'm going to expose a few more things that I haven't been able to through this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34107	Thank you. Replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, by the nature of politics and the functioning of the Croatian Parliament, usually representatives from different clubs especially opposition and authorities disagree very often. However, on this occasion, I must express my agreement with what my colleague Bacic said about the Bay of Maloston. This is a very serious practical problem and preventing fishing in the intensity in which it has taken place in the Bay of Maloston will lead to a very bad situation. Because even with this high level of fishing effort that has been lawfully allowed so far, they have suffered great damage in certain parts of the season when more ordnance or predators occur and I appeal to Mr. Minister on this occasion that this problem should be seen in the context of this law and that the regime of fishing and the right of the domicillal population to fish in the Maloston Bay area should not be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34109	Thank you. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34110	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Baranovic, I absolutely agree with you. You are very familiar with the problem of fishing and in the Bay of Maloston. It's a good thing you've given your support to our proposal to allow fishing in the Bay of Maloston and the small sea. At the meeting of the Committee, by the representatives of the Government, it was said that this law does not prevent fishing in the Bay of Maloston from being carried out but that the implementation of that fishing is hindered by the Regulation on fishing areas where the possibility of fishing in the Bay of Maloston is not prescribed. That's not true. Namely, it is not said in the Regulation that no fishing may be carried out in the Bay of Maloston area. But I know when that rule was passed and that then there was talk of whether it was possible if the parent law and that is the Nature Protection Act prevents fishing in natural areas such as a special reservation that neither the rule that comes and the posteriors can allow it. That's not true. Thus, the regulation defining the fishing areas of the fishing zone in the Republic of Croatia allows fishing in the Bay of Maloston and the only act that prevents it will be this law if it is adopted in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34111	Thank you. The word was requested by Minister Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34112	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would briefly refer to this debate about the Bay of Maloston. So what's the fact that this law is nowhere and I believe you've read nowhere is not forbidden to fish in a special reserve in the Bay of Maloston. I would already warn that the issue of fishing and fishing is defined by a special law, so the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries, and where the Sea Fisheries Act explicitly lists the sea in a protected area, or a special reserve, does not represent fishing at sea. And at this point, it's the only obstacle to why fishing is not being carried out in the Bay of Maloston. As this law must be horizontally in line with all other rules and regulations governing fisheries, this law states that certain activities can be carried out in protected areas but under certain conditions. Thus, the issue of fishing and fishing in Maloston Bay will be regulated by amendments to the sea fisheries law, which will also be in line with the regulations, the conditions of conservation of biodiversity or conservation of nature in that area. So here in this law nowhere or in the draft anywhere is explicitly forbidden fishing in, fishing in the Bay of Maloston, and in that part here I would correct these incorrect allegations. It is true that the laws must be horizontally harmonised but at this point on a specific case is the only obstacle to the Maritime Fisheries Act which explicitly prohibits or says that the sea in a special reserve does not represent fishing at sea and that is an obstacle to fishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34113	Two replicas to your exposure. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're saying that the law doesn't say it anywhere. Read Article 113, which speaks of the national park and states in Article 113(3). "The national park allows procedures and activities which do not endanger the originality of nature" and the 5th sentence "extremely from that item can be allowed to host and recreational activities which are in the role of visiting and dealing with livestock, agriculture, fishing", that is, for the national park. When it comes to a special reservation such as the Bay of Maloston, it also says, "A special reserve does not allow procedures and activities that may distort the properties of which the reserve has been declared," and then says "exceptionally of the items of this article, fish and other aquatic organisms are allowed in special reserves where at the time of the declaration the activity of breeding is found in the scope and in a way that does not endanger the properties of which the reservation has been declared." Therefore, in Maloston Bay, which has been declared a special reserve, fishing is not allowed. After all, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, associations and Ceh fishermen and Dubrovnik-Neretva County would not write a series of objections to this law and I think to many representatives and especially to us from Dubrovnik-Neretva County because they ask that in the same way as the fishing prescribed in the national park to be prescribed this activity and in a special reserve like the Maloston Bay. And it is not true, then, that the legislation is now prohibited in any other law or other act of fishing in the Bay of Maloston, except that it is now an obstacle set out in such a law that we are discussing in the Assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34115	The reply to the replica by Minister Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34116	Thank you very much. So when we talk about Article 114 of this proposal and in general about a special reserve, we must look at the comprehensive situation throughout Croatia of all the special reserves not only of the Bay of Maloston. In Article 114, which you have quoted in paragraph 3, it also states that "A special reservation allows procedures and activities that maintain or improve the conditions for the preservation of the properties for which it has been declared a reservation". It is therefore possible to carry out activities in a special reserve which, in Article 3(3), states that it is possible to carry out activities that maintain or improve the conditions of importance for the preservation of the properties for which it has been declared a reservation. Therefore, it is this paragraph 3 of Article 114 of the talks that it is necessary to comply with other regulations with this law, so it is precisely for the protection of nature that it will lay down the conditions under which such activity can be carried out but only when obstacles are removed in other regulations, which is the Law on Marine Fisheries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34117	And the replica Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I wouldn't exactly say it's a classic replica, but one piece of information for Mr. Secretary. When the Law on Marine Fisheries was written, I was sitting at the table and that provision you are referring to was passed with opposition from the fishing sector to the explicit insistence of the ministry on which you are headed. Otherwise, I think it's important that you know as a minister that she's brought a lot of problems in the field and that she hasn't gotten positive but negative consequences. Since I am someone who can speak with full confidence about this problem, I am obliged to inform you that this is exactly the attitude of the Marine Fisheries Act and the Nature Protection Act has received the devastation of certain protected areas of national parks in the marine eco system. And I'd be very pleased if as a minister, you find it appropriate to look at that problem one day in a narrow circle very detail and with the best intention of bringing things into balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34119	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34120	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Right in front of the HNS club, I'm going to say that we as a club will support this law. What I would say at the beginning of the presentation in front of the club is that the protection of nature and natural beauty of the Republic of Croatia is highly quoted in Europe and that it is one of the greatest values of the Republic of nature. It follows that the obligation and duty of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is to maintain special care and protection for nature conservation. What I would also say is that the bill comes from the government of the Republic of Croatia, and that this bill was jointly drawn up by the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. What is also important in this law is that this is the first important law passed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection because the two laws so far on the protection of nature have been passed as part of the work of the Ministry of Culture. We at the HNS club believe that this way is much better and that, with the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, it has shown how much he cares about this extremely important resource of the Republic of Croatia. I would say that with the new bill, there is a new system, a new expression is being introduced, and that a more comprehensive and clearer approach to this problem is being introduced. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The relevant laws so far have been the laws of 2005, 2008 and 2011. The concept of nature protection that looks at the overall biodiversity is based on the Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biodiversity in 1992. Furthermore, Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe have been incorporated into this new law. After the law was passed in 2005, the law experienced two more cosmetic changes that were not structural, which were more consistent with the real things. The new Nature Protection Act brings about an improvement of the nature protection system in the Republic of Croatia and further harmonizes with the provisions of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directives. The aim of nature protection is to preserve as wide a variety of plant and animal life as possible, to achieve a more natural balance. I must also point out that the Republic of Croatia is one of the richest countries in Europe from a biodiversity perspective. The diversity conditioned by natural and biogeographical conditions, which has contributed to the abundance and diversity of land and watery marine and underground habitats and life in them. I must say that in the Republic of Croatia is the most significant part of the population of many flora and fauna that are at risk at European level. So-called The red list of endangered species in the plant and animal world in the Republic of Croatia is located in more than 2200 animal and plant species. What is also important to note is that the plant and animal world essentially gives both balance and gives the possibility of survival to the human race. In the former division or preservation and protection of nature, the Republic of Croatia had an ecological network where over 47 land areas and 38.5 marine territories were included in the protection of the ecological network. With this new proposal, this part of the protection will be somewhat smaller because the application of July 1st, from the moment Croatia is a full member of the European Union, will be implemented in the nature protection measures Natura 2000. This will be 36.99 land territory, 16.58 sea territory or a total of 29.64% area or a total of 2617010 hectares of land. It is also important to note here that Natura 2000 shows a difference in the areas of protected nature in newly admitted countries in the European Union and in the old Member States. So in the last countries admitted to the European Union, these criteria are very strict and very high so that the Republic of Slovenia has a 35.5% head start, Bulgaria 34%, Slovakia 29, Cyprus 28, etc. For the Republic of Croatia, this will be 29.4 which, according to the Environmental Protection Association, is considered to be a very low percentage, but given the space and territory of the Republic of Croatia in the club of the Croatian Nationalities, we believe that this part of the protection of almost 30% of the Republic of Croatia's protection of nature is also very good, but it is important to implement legislation in other parts of the Republic of Croatia and to take care of the protection of nature and the environment, not only in areas that are protected but also in all other areas. The adoption of the Nature Protection Act is a general perception in the public in the Republic of Croatia that there are very high criteria for nature protection to essentially prevent quality development and investment. This law significantly improves this situation and significantly makes it more clear when obtaining certain permits in certain areas. We believe that this part is acceptable, especially in nature, that in the co-existence between nature and man there must be a balance in both the existence and the human species and the protection of nature. I would read here the statement by Mr. Zmajlovic, who literally said this: This law creates a legal framework for improving the investment climate, for quality co-existence of man and nature, to define nature protection as a platform of development, which will directly affect the quality of life. I think this sentence and this quote best speaks of the intention and the very purpose of passing this law. In addition to the clear legislative regulations and terminology referred to in this law here, also mentioned speciological findings that were found by chance or found in certain construction procedures, the procedure is also clear and precise research of speciological findings. Also, this law defines and clearly defines the concession system. In addition to these mentioned things, both sides and invasive species have been elaborated, as well as cross-border traffic with wild species. What is also important in this matter of saying that here this law clearly defines both the way and the inspection and is clearly precise with certain criminal provisions. So for serious violations, criminal provisions bring financial penalties from 500 to millions of kuna. What matters in this law and in all the laws passed by this High House is its implementation and the quality of its application in society. Society or state must take responsibility in implementing the Nature Protection Act, and the best protection of nature is education. So this education must be from primary school to the end of life, because an integral part of the survival on the globe of the earth and in nature is safe to preserve and the importance and importance of nature and its protection as one of the main foundations of the further sustainable economic development of the Republic of Croatia. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party believe that this law has achieved this goal and that it will in any case contribute to quality maintenance and nature protection. The Croatian People's Party club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34121	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. My colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, esteemed colleague, you said in one part of your exposure that here's how much new government shows concern for nature and natural heritage by not being in the Ministry of Culture anymore, which would mean that when before they were in the Ministry of Nature Protection they were not showing concern for nature protection, which is completely incorrect. The systems in the world are different. Somewhere nature protection is really in the Ministry of Environment, but in the tradition of our services protection and cultural and natural protection they have always been together, always. It is more than a hundred years of tradition of service that has been so conceived, which has done a large part of the work to protect natural heritage, in the formation of national parks and parks of nature. So it's completely incorrect to set things up like that. Now it's in the second ministry, so it's no longer at the Ministry of Culture, so it's better to take care of it. Take a look at the compositions of administrative councils now in national parks and in nature parks, so you will see which were more professional, more conceptd and whether there was then greater care or less concern. I assure you you will remain negatively surprised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34123	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34124	I'm sorry that my colleague Mesic misunderstood my message. I didn't say in my statement that the Ministry of Culture had done its job badly and was not my intention. But I wanted to point out that with this approach, we may be paying more attention to environmental protection, protecting nature by setting up a resolute ministry. With all the thanks to all the high-quality scientists who have taken care of the protection, preservation and diversity and biodiversity of this area in the 19th century, we can say that we are part of a cultural Europe as a nation. I didn't think for a moment that the Ministry of Culture wasn't doing this job well, so I'm sorry if that's how you figured it out. If you're feeling offended, I'd like to make an apology, because my intention wasn't to, but it was a clear attention to environmental protection and to the Ministry of Resort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34125	And Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34126	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister with an associate. Well, maybe I could have done it before, but here's my colleague Mandic tied me up talking about protecting the locality, and I have to tie myself to the localities. Here, we talked about the Bay of Maloston a little while ago. I think we have a sea in our beautiful homeland. In my town Trogir there is one monument of park architecture, one... A reservation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, according to this bill, and until now, the county should have managed this, or the county institution for managing these particular sites. That's how it stays. I see again that the local self-government unit has no ingenuity whatsoever. I ask you nicely, since it is a direct offer that is located in the middle of the city especially a monument of park architecture, and it is also a strict center of the city. It is purely touristic and simply our cultural offer, and it is currently a public toilet that is closed and blocked, it simply cannot be entered. The other one is... A reservation also filled with history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to tell you about it now, because it's a little time and it's not a chance. But please either turn it into nature parks or give the unit of local self-government to management, because this management is neither effective nor good, nor from it we have a enriched tourist offer. So please, if there's anything you can do about it. So either go to the nature park or go to management. And we've already asked for it through the city council. Here's a specific and direct question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34127	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34128	I thank my colleague Damira. The minister, Mr. Zmajlovic, is likely to give a more accurate answer, and I will say that the Republic of Croatia can be happy that there are 8 national parks, 11 nature parks. But what's good is that this law has opportunities to grant concessions and use certain spaces. We think that's good, because these parks have to live with people, they have to live with space. Because if they're isolated from space, I think their value is much less than normal environmental standards, environmental protection. And this, I think, is what my colleague Rilje said, I think it's well-founded and that we should certainly put it in a quality function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34129	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34130	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I'll proceed right here where my predecessors have left off. It is clear that units of local self-government should be included in the application of this Nature Protection Act. Clearly, if we transfer power to local self-government units, then they should be transferred money in some way. I think we agree here, we clearly do what we do. I am deeply convinced as low as possible, as close as possible to the citizens. It doesn't always have to mean better nature protection, but it would just be kind of logical if it were. What is certain, by my judgment, or how I read this Nature Protection Act is crucial, perhaps this article 32 or rather this whole chapter that speaks of the use of natural goods and space and the assessment of acceptability for the ecological network. This Article 32 literally states that the study is produced by a person authorised under a special regulation governing environmental protection professional affairs and is then stated in Article 32(2) that the cost of making the study is borne by the holder of the procedure. The authorisation holder shall make a study based on their data. The authorisation holder shall be responsible for the truthfulness, accuracy, professional justification of the study. Why am I saying that? A clear study must be paid under quotes "investor". That's absolutely correct. But the study should be designed in any case by an independent body. And it's supposed to be some kind of imperative. When the investor himself ordered and paid for the studies and his teams made the study, it was logical, for example, logically, not logical but what happened in a Potpic. That everything with Rockwall, that everything was in line with the highest environmental standards as it was in those studies, and then the citizens had a lot of problems. There is no dilemma, I am aware of the fact that, say, this Rockwooll is one big company, the biggest greenfield investment in Croatia, 75m euros plus 10m euros. It is 0.5% of Croatian exports, 50 trucks a day from Potpic to the west, one remains all in Croatia of these goods clearly, 130 workers, indirectly 400, but the truth is that the locals are permanently complaining. Lately, they may be complaining a little less, but I, these locals, I think I absolutely believe in the problem they show every day. What am I saying? It's not a Rockwall dispute, it's a disputed location. Rockwooll needs Croatia, but the place chosen is absolutely wrong. So, if I can do business in one Munich, I can do it in Croatia, but I'm going to say it again because of this kind of practice where this spatial planning documentation regarding nature or space protection or the citizens themselves are making investors, and then what happened to us in a Potpic. That's why investors shouldn't make those studies themselves. This needs to be done and clearly some independent bodies should do so. Plomin C probably the same thing, I know it is a strategic investment for Croatia, I know that Istria County has given all the consent from the positive opinion of the Institute of Spatial Planning to a positive opinion and in that study full employment – maximum competitiveness and again there already have 2 thermopower plants Plomin 1, Plomin 2 and now we have a troika that should satisfy the biggest problem and that is the unit. But there's still a need to consider whether it's possible to compensate that construction with gas. And I wouldn't want to be the only one against that coal. As far as what is certainly good in this law is concerned, these are good provisions on access to information. This is regulated by Articles 198, 199, 200, and really this information should be done as far as possible, about the state of clear nature or the protection of nature, to the maximum availability of our citizens. The issue of monitoring, inventory as is said here, that is, monitoring the situation is also well resolved and that I do not quote it further. As far as concessions are concerned, clearly by my judgment, this issue should be regulated in this law. Maybe that should have been regulated in those earlier laws on nature protection. It is true that we have a special concession law, but it is not exactly a matter of concession in which the role of local self-government should be maximumly apostrophe to be incorporated into this law. Protecting nature is something you can't do without. We fortunately have to be a cynical protected space, we have remained through conversion and privatisation without industry, mainly along the Adriatic, so we have nothing to fear from. But what's the point, infrastructure, nature protection industry must sort of go together. I think there just has to be room for everything. And for intact nature and infrastructure, a clear industry because otherwise we can't survive. It is also good that this law is in the process because it raises awareness of the need to protect nature. These solutions I mention in my court are correct. Mr Bacic spoke earlier, mentioned that the law should also be observed with the Law on Strategic Investments when decisions on an investor are made by the Government itself, namely the Government in a way that should be controlled and a certain mechanism should be incorporated into this law. However, I will say that, in general, this law is certainly correct. Now that I mention Istria, I'm going to mention Kastyun, what I'm going to say about that garbage dump, the burner, what's already been secured is the funds and now where we're going to go, but I understand the people of Medulin. And I'd fight if all the garbage from Istria didn't come under my window, say, in Buzet. But once again, I will say, for the fourth time, that the law is correct. I also agree with these remarks about Maloston Bay, which should allow fishing, if possible in national parks. I think the minister's argument was correct. There can't be any law, so neither can this one go "against humans", can it go against the traditional way of life, what has kept us through the centuries. If in this Stone or around the bay we have somewhere, as Mr. Bacic says, 2000 registered boats, the state should compensate those families before banning them. But we can't do that for you either for that traditional way of life over the centuries. So the law is that, not against the traditional lifestyle, but why did I mention this Maloston Bay mentioned earlier by several MPs, for activity in the Lim Channel. And there they grow these shells, fish, and they should not, nor will, in one word, compromise the harmony between nature, the economy and that mariculture. All in all, or you should always try to find some measure. Someone once mentioned the co-existence of man and nature, someone said that we inherited nature de facto from those who came behind us, but it's clear that we can't lose the economy either. All in all, I am convinced of the minister's good intentions, the law should be supported and, as I said, there should be places for everything, and perhaps, when it comes to such solutions, there should be more places for local self-government, but clearly if someone is putting down powers and then money must be found, and through the form of future decentralisations, this should be taken into account through the formula of future decentralisation. Otherwise, we support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34131	Thank you. We're on our way to replicas, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34132	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Cain, here I am referring to your statement in the debate so you don't want to be the only one against the coal thermal power plant, Plomin C3. Well, you're not here alone yet, no matter what some of us don't even live in Istrian County. But I'm interested in one other attitude, so I'm going to ask you one question. You are now an independent parliamentary representative, an SDP candidate for the Istrian mayor, the fact is that the Ministry of Environment began its action, there about a year ago challenged the Environmental Impact Study for the construction of this Plomin C, and the current Minister Mr. Zmajlovic supports the construction of such a Plomina C on coal, so I ask you what will you do as a possible mayor if you get into a situation that the government you today insist on building Plomina C on coal? Will you insist on the current position of the current mayor and press charges, and try to prevent the construction of such a Plane C on coal, or will you make peace with the fact that you have to do so, because the call of the chair is still stronger than the desire to protect the environment of the inhabitants living inside that pool? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34133	Comrade Boris, you have reached out to the replica and are now asking as a citizen would ask a candidate for an Istrian mayor, you ask a colleague. It's not in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't want to interrupt you, so take care of it. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34134	Mr. Agent, isn't it there that the head of HEP is Mr. Rocer's HDZ? I won't take it as an advisor, but I will ask his opinion, as his parent party considers Plomino C or Plomino 3. I want to believe he'll be in my shoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34135	Replica, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34136	Dear colleague, I just wanted to warn you since you were talking about the environmental impact assessment process and environmental impact studies that this is not the subject of this law, but the Environmental Protection Act. This is the Nature Protection Act and covers a slightly different problem in this, so here it is, since this was mentioned in the environmental impact assessment procedure and for the Rockvol factory and for the Plomin thermal power plant, I think we'll discuss it more when we'll have the Environmental Protection Act in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34137	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34138	Right, I know that, exactly that distance between the environment and nature, but the fact is that down there when I mention the Kastyun, and Plomin C, and when I mention the Rockwul problem have people above all, there's a problem with the environment and the rich and nature that we're discussing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34139	And my colleague Branko Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34140	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is good that you supported the HDZ Club's proposal to allow fishing in Maloston Bay, but it is not true that the Minister has given a good explanation because the Law on Marine Fisheries requires that in protected areas of nature the conditions under which fishing is to be carried out are regulated by the Nature Protection Act. Therefore, in this law as defined for national parks, it should be explicitly prescribed for special reserves such as the Bay of Maloston and I asked the Minister to respect it and that, as written in law for national parks, it should also be defined for the Bay of Maloston in order to preserve that shell fund in... A pebble. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise today, it's time for me to give the information the day of St. Peter's Stonestone. Joseph so I use the occasion here to congratulate all Josephs on the name of the day, although our president is not in the assembly congratulating the name of the day, and I think that today on this day we should just show on the day of the pebbles how we care about the stones and accept this proposal from the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34141	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34142	I sincerely hope this law does not tang the cultivation of pebbles and other shellfish or I do not know fish in Lim Bay, Istria. I can agree that stone from Stone are more quality from Lim but our Lims are not to be thrown away either. And that's what we're fighting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34143	And informs that Article 207 is in accordance with Article 207. Paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure expired time for registration and discussion of ten minutes in 10 hours and 51 minutes. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is Zlatko Komadina. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34144	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that Croatia has such a diversity far greater than the average in Europe and that it certainly has advantages that should be used but it also has to say the flaw in investment and the procedure in space. If we don't find the right measure between protection and means of protection. It would be good to know, I don't know if the minister was saying this introductoryly that this network was designated. In Europe, it is a far lower level of protection or less protection than it is in Croatia. In Croatia, it is about 30%, and I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, where it is almost 80%, so the whole county except for the construction area is conditioned to tell you it is under protection, it is a marine part, it has given it a land part. Mostly because of birds and great beasts, what is said is because only there live wolf lynx and bear. I used to say that from here. And now the movement of that lynx, wolf and bear marked that area. Yeah? And now you hear they come today some of them and into the cities, so we're not going to put that in protection. What I'm trying to say is that on examples two, it's a matter of measure. One question is wind power plants such as the Vinodol municipality that have fallen or will fall out of the county's spatial plan because they can't pass that environmental impact assessment due to the fact that a raw eagle is a raw eagle. Because what the assistant minister explained on the board is actually where the eagle floats there is the best wind, and where the best wind is also best for wind power plants because it doesn't fly, I mean it flies, it floats. I mean, I'm saying that you probably wouldn't build wind power plants in your area, so he would float left or right of the wind power plants, which the word wouldn't float onto the wind power plant. I mean, I don't see that in that sense, it bothers a completely cruel eagle, for example. 10, 12 of those wind-power poles. Or this example of you talking about stones. Well, it's logical that it must be given when giving a concession, whether it's the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, whether by this law that one who grows stones has the right to harvest ordnance because the plow is fed by clams. So literally, if you don't give it, then you grow mussels for work and not for the market. So these are simply logical things that can't be sanctioned by the force of bureaucracy. See Great Britain this is said so it is a handsome example of the same has 7% protected area, Croatia has 30. I think I'm a little bit of a cartoon and paraphrasing that would turn out that in the UK they don't want to live either plants or animals. But people live there well. We like to live and live well in plants and animals but people don't live very well. I want to say that it is really a matter of measures between protection because if Europe wants to declare us this Natura 2000 or the national ecological network, in fact, a European reserve which we are in nature and well that we are preserved and not damaged, then we should live well from it. But it's hardly going to be one through one. So I would like to appeal that, until the second reading, some more flexible mechanisms are installed in certain ways to say the procedure in a space that brings greater social value than any possible damage that makes natural, or plant and animal species, because, finally, if we protect all of this, the advantage is, of course, that plants and animals do not have their own spokeswoman but that we, like those who need to introduce certain legal norms because they cannot do so. But we can't introduce 100% in favour of plants and animals, and at the very heart, people like that. Well, here's to my appeal for a little flexibility to be implanted in to the final text of the law. And one more thing with the director of public institutions. I think it's going to be built out of the law. Somewhere in the article is the case from the purchase of mobile phones, the use of business cards, official cars are decided by the Minister for National Level of Nature Protection, and the representative body decides for the county level. It's nowhere to be found, it's really nowhere to be dealt with by a representative body, it's a malte not to say the rank of a rule which in nature brings a responsible person in a legal person. And let's say if there's something that needs to be regulated at the level of the executive representative of the government, not at the level of the representative body. It would be as if, at the level here, the Parliament is making a decision on the use of business cards and cars. I was literally read from that article by Plitvice and car procurement. So it's just stupid literally I have to say that it's in the law to do something like that on a representative's body. So we would pray for both the part and the revenue related to the protection regimes certain parts declare especially around these speleological facilities, caves and that national level but in practice it is carried out through public institutions of the county level to largely manage those areas because they have no income, but concession income goes above the state level. So that part should be harmonised a little bit. And a proposal of these discussions by some colleagues that should be given to a local level, I think that it should be built on the possibility that the county can pass it through its institution, and in practice and at least these examples I have seen that it is often used to manage... in the county to manage that sort of sort of. the communal or any other company or legal person of the local self-government unit in the area is... and through this way can also regulate this local level of management of individual areas because you have to make sure that large institutions of type of national parks do something and earn even those in just too much but earn. However, these public institutions are generally a huge cost of regional self-government and they have a great need for protection because they are dispersed spaces of individual trees, various canyons, rocks and so on. In a vast space and when... that network of supervisors you hire and you need even more. You have the cost of actually a budget story from the budget because... the budget user and the revenue side is very, very small.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34145	Thank you. The replica has Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Komadin's proposal reduces protected space in the Republic of Croatia by about 18%, which means that 18% of the space will no longer be required to assess the acceptability of procedures for the ecological network. Now, according to this new bill, that's going to work on this 29%. What is not true is not true that we are at the EU summit on a protected area. According to NATURA 2000, we're somewhere in the middle. There are countries that are smaller than us, and there are countries that are bigger than that in that part of the NATURA 2000 declaration, we will be somewhere in the middle of EU member states. But what I've replicated to you, so it's clear that the protected area doesn't have to be an obstacle to investment in itself. In fact, even when we did not protect the area by any environmental law, either the Nature Protection Act was devastated and beyond that. So we cannot now argue that because we have declared some space a protected area on any basis, it makes investment difficult. Investments make it difficult for inefficient administration, administration, an unsettled system that involves numerous, numerous, numerous assumptions that some procedure would be realised. And I agree that even in this law, and also in the Environmental Protection Act, in these protected areas, we need to establish a procedure that goes much faster where deadlines are known and where, above all, those deadlines are respected. If these deadlines were also respected in existing laws, some procedures would be implemented more quickly. Therefore, the argument that something is not protected by space in order to speed up investments in itself is not enough and is guilty but also needs to have administration and should have prescribed deadlines. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34147	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Zlatko Komadin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34148	So I think I've made myself clear, but I'm going to say, for example, right from where I come from, where it's not 30%, but 80%. And look at that example of what I said about the raw eagle or take the River-Zagreb railroad, every infrastructure object that goes through the environment that's protected requires an impact assessment on nature is done by making this study. And as a rule, this procedure can be approved with it, or on conditions that I don't know, probably a series of gaps for wolves or bears, etc. which I think I can cross and pass. But I'm talking to that eagle example, and I think it's a classic example that it's not okay because birds, because if the object is either way, you won't get permission. And the bird listen, it's not that stupid, the bird if he sees an obstacle gets around it. I mean, a little flexibility in interpreting it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34149	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34150	Dear colleague Komadin, I would like us in this House to really agree on this percentage of the protected area of the Republic of Croatia because here is now the third ministry, or let's say another ministry dealing with this problem, and we have different experiences. We discussed the recent state of space in the Republic of Croatia proposed by the second Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction where it was found that there are about 10% of areas in the Republic of Croatia under protection regimes. Today we're talking about 30% of the area. The economy minister says no one will invest in this country, no one will invest because 50% of the area is under certain protection regimes. It would be good if we told the truth once, really how much it is. If it's this 30% then let's agree on it and say it's 30%. Is it much or little, it's important that we know what we're talking about because this is how it turns out that because of the different attitudes, we really don't even know how much space in the Republic we're protecting. And these stories of environmental impact studies here I will tell the experience of building... for Rab very important ports, the Environmental Impact Study for the new Luka Stinica has made it impossible to build for almost a year to search for conservatives and some other experts, researchers, building a port that was ready. We were a year late, and in the end, none of what was there was wanted or written. So in that part, I support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34151	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34152	I think the level of protection should be taken into account, namely the national level of protection is 11%, so national parks and parks these others, etc., nature and so on. Then there's another few percent of the protection that is the level of regional protection, so these public institutions, and this is up to 30% of the space required to assess the impact of the procedure on nature. So I'm going to say that example again for wolves, lynx and bears. It's just our commitment to how much space we're going to give to wolves, drawings and bears, whether the whole mountain cot all the way to the coast, to Bosiljeva and to like, with Luc, or we're going to give half of it because so listen, he's going to go to di will. As he would have told you, the bear will not ask where he will go. But I'm saying the question is whether it should go exactly that way because as far as I understand it in the research, it's so determined, you put a transmitter on a bear, wolf and lynx, and then you record where he was lurking and how far he got to put it under protection. That's how it works, and you deny me that it doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34153	It's time for the individual debate of my colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34154	Dear vice presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Nature Protection Law that we are discussing in two readings, I would like to stress that I will not support the adoption of this bill for one key reason, which is that this proposal is not in line with Plan 21 of the Kukuriku coalition, and on the basis of Plan 21 today, the ruling parties have been given a mandate to manage the country and it is their obligation to realise the policy on the basis of which they came to power. I believe that Plan 21 is a contract that the government has concluded with the citizens of Croatia that have shown confidence and that contract must be respected. The decision to fail to meet the policies set out in Plan 21 cannot be made either by the minister or by the prime minister or even by the government as a whole because they did not get a mandate from Croatian citizens. I have always considered politics to be a business in the public interest, and this public interest is determined by selecting a political option offered by a particular political programme in the elections. The programme cannot and must not give up volunteering within the framework of closed political elites because it is a violation of the express will of citizens and citizens of Croatia. In the business we are dealing with, which is politics, honesty and credibility are the most important capital available to some policy option. This wealth is insecure and without reason, without any clear argument, and credibility in politics is proven by the realisation of those projects, programmes and policies on the basis of which the political option and the mandate for managing the state. This credibility to the Kukuriku coalition in this law is compromised and therefore cannot support this law, or even at the cost of leaving the party. I believe that the SDP as the most important party to the Kukuriku coalition must take special care of the credibility of the government policy and must insist on respecting the promises made by Plan 21, which is more so because Plan 21 was created through dialogue and public debate with citizens and citizens of Croatia. Therefore, in this place I recall that on 17 October 2011, in response to one question of nature protection policy-related citizens in Plan 21, I quote: "The SDP Environmental Protection Council in the first half of 2011. The red-green nature protection model that has become an integral part of the environmental, nature and space policy of the Kukuriku coalition. The above model provides for an integrated approach in the field of nature protection, united efficiency, inclusion and integration, repositioning, active dynamic approach, development creation, new funding models and sustainability, and transformation of the park system of professional and administrative affairs, i.e. transition and regionalisation. In terms of nature protection facilities, we plan to systematise the tasks and system of progress in the services of national parks and parks of nature through the Rules on how to do business in the functioning of public institutions and to set up a National Park Agency of NPA whose key tasks would be to ensure the conditions of operation according to the principle of "one mission, one vision". The rationalisation and transformation of the existing park system, the resolution of property-legal relations, the redefined concept of spatial planning in protected areas, and the development of models for the contribution of national parks and parks to the national and local economy through public-private partnerships and concessions projects.". Do you see any of what I just quoted in this bill? I can't see. And this promise has become one of the provisions of the contract that the Kukuriku coalition has concluded with the citizens of Croatia and must not run away from that responsibility. This document shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given up a fundamental and key nature protection reform in Plan 21, which is the establishment of a National Park Agency which would end the current era of non-transparent money available to protect nature and projects of sustainable park development, sheriff park management in close contact with political elites. Since the National Park Agency is not even referred to in the context of so many times as decisively seen, perhaps even in the opening explanation of the bill's proposal, I quote: "In certain parts such as defining, declaring and preserving protected areas and managing protected areas, this law continues with the practice established by the applicable Nature Protection Act.". I think it was more clear than that that the government was not planning to fulfill the fundamental promise of Plan 21 regarding nature protection policy and that without any explanation it gave up the reform of the system of management of protected areas of nature that we desperately need. Since the National Park Agency will not be formed political elites with the help of its sheriffs of both sexes in the positions of directors and directors of national parks and nature parks will continue to earn money from parks and use them for purposes that have absolutely nothing to do with the protection of nature and sustainable development of parks and parks around parks. This means that money from parks will continue to be financed by various football and basketball clubs for the needs of the narrow party interests, or in secret, by the so-called football and basketball clubs. VIP Mercedes, angry jeeps, fossil fuel swallowers and simple greenhouse gas emitters. If it wasn't sad and embarrassing, because instead of a director of the NP, we'd have 19 directors, why wouldn't we have 20 boards in parks instead of one board of directors? At the same time in Lake Kozjak, in the heart of Plitvice Lakes National Park, sewerage wastewaters continue to be poured out and hotels in a park surrounded by biomass heated on mamut, continue to eat industrially produced food from China and Brazil while local food producers fail. And as this proposal refers to the perm of the NP as a key promise from Plan 21. In Article 130, point (a) is replaced The proposal for a law in paragraph 5 is easy to say, I quote: "The government may establish a public institution for the management of all protected areas against the national significance referred to in Article 111(3) of this Law." End of the quote, end of the national park agency. The government can, but let's be realistic, the government won't. The fundamental reform of nature protection policy is thus summed up in three short paragraphs just to serve as an alibi in principle, so you can see that we haven't completely given up on it. All we have to do is run analysis, study, set up commissions and commissions and transfer all of this to an assessment somewhere at the end of the mandate so that we can have a staff for another promise of crazy belief for the next parliamentary elections. Well, according to this bill, it seems that's how it's gonna be. The reform will be nothing, but 400 million kunas will continue to be spent annually on funding who knows what projects in the interest of political and other elites. There will still be some money for the second and third league football clubs, and a few hundred thousand will also be found for VIP Mercedes based on the boy's wishes of some up-to-date politician. The main thing is that one's dreams of a better nature are fulfilled in this way, and political promises serve nothing but never being fulfilled. I hope that the government will reassure me and begin to realise the policies of Plan 21, but to do so, people from the government need to start reading and understanding them first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34155	Thank you. Replica Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34156	Well, let me just say a few words to my dear colleague Mirella. I've just read her, or realized her discussion on the trail, well maybe I'm a little naive and optimistic, on the trail of what she's been discussing. Namely, just in the reasoning that I at least had the opportunity to listen to on the board it was emphasized that a poor system of governance at national protection levels and that the part should be changed and I think she finally said that right here in the law, I read it more from the aspect of protection, not from the aspect of governance, that it stands as being possible. It means that it is open to the possibility that everything in national parks and others was open, because it is the same level of protection, and it was different, and it was actually a manifestation of actions, let alone the feeling that it was about far from the eyes, so it was done as it was done with some local administrative councils or what kind of political it is true. We are witnessing that some of us who are, we have some of it in space, and I say we never had a chance to peek except for these public manifestations. So my impression is that this discussion should be followed by more standardisation, so I say in managing the same level of protection. But I think it's my impression that this law in part is going that way, maybe not as much as any of us would like. Each of us has different thoughts depending on his commitment and, of course, he would point out some things more and some less. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34157	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34158	Dear colleague, I agree with you in part. However, I would like to repeat in Plan 21 of the Kukuriku Coalition, in the section concerning environmental, nature and space policy, it does not say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may establish a national park agency and that it can establish a national park agency. It says it will form a national park agency and I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver on this pre-election promise because of the fact that we received elections based on our policies. And that is the basic contract this government has with citizens and citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34159	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm not going to repeat what they are and what my colleague Bacic said, and in part what my colleague Komadin said. It's not exactly so that space is determined to set up on a bear or on a drawing transmitter so that the whole space can be united. The fact is that the radius of the movement of large beasts is very large and that some times it takes into account the protection of the area. What I'd like to say is that there was no need for this law to go into procedure now. I would politically if you would and professionally let more public debates hear all sorts of opinions, including what Mrs. MP Holly's team said more which makes us do nothing now to go into passing that law. As mentioned by the UNDP study minister, which speaks of how to protect natural heritage, the progress is under way. I personally think it was better when she was at the Ministry of Culture. I think it's in the tradition of our service of protection. I think a lot of national and local spaces that we protect in accordance with the Nature Protection Act overlap and two protection services are clearly Lonjsko polje, Žumberka, Plitvica etc. etc. They even overlap not only in a material sense, but also in an immaterial sense, which is very important for the identity of a nation, but for that. This is not considered in any bill, so we're not going to open that topic right now which I think would be much better if we had done it that way. What is a problem and I see that the amendments and additions to this law reduce the deadlines for the adoption of studies related to the NATURA environmental network in 2000 to align with the NATURA 2000 ecological network. I think those deadlines that were in the current bill are not bad, but the problem was in their implementation at the county level. And my concern about the protection of natural heritage would go exactly in that direction to strengthen the system, the personnel teaming on the ground that could do so at the county level. I can't help but feel that this bill is related to strategic investment. I don't see any other reason why he would go into procedure right now. And if we say now that the cost of the surveillance service for nature protection is large, it doesn't matter, it's important that nature is preserved for other times. A very small number and national institutions operate positively in the sense that all costs are compensated by their income from ticket sales. I think it's just two or three national parks that don't need to receive salaries for their employees from the state budget. But at this point in time for a state and public interest that, by my deep conviction at this point should be matched, it doesn't matter. It is important that natural heritage is preserved from now on to far into the future and may eventually be able to finance itself. But that's the position now. Now, world experiences say that when you give to anyone other than the state, he's the boss in that space. And this is our deep reserve, and my deep reserve, according to this proposal, that the catering facilities that exist in national parks are given to anyone in the long term. I am deeply convinced that the rational management of this institution can be guided, i.e. these economic operators can lead in an adequate way to help the natural heritage survive and earn something. The concept of the agency applied in the United States applies to a highly liberal model that unites and fully deniess the local and regional impacts of nature protection on the local community and their economy. That's why we were against it when the plan was recorded in Plan 21 of the Kukuriku coalition. Because I think it's going the wrong way. And inconspicuous are the consequences that can arise if the administrations of all national parks and nature parks in Zagreb are centralized, and that is where all decisions are made regarding the Park of Nature "Lastovo Otokja". Now I'm going back to the beginning of what I said, what does it have to do with the effective protection of nature on the spot, what does it have to do with protecting the way of life in that area because nature parks allow certain economic traditional activities in that belt and how can it be effectively protected? So then we can talk that some local administrations of national parks and nature parks were connected to the local political community, but this will also be connected to the ruling set in Zagreb. Now, what's better? There must be some links to politics at the end of the day. Take a look at the administrative councils of nature parks and national parks. They're all party colored. All administrative councils of all national parks and nature parks have been removed. Look, that's where the local SDP council members are put, or I don't know who. They have nothing to do with the protection of nature, the connection. Mycani are university professors from the board of directors who, however, have nothing to do with any party. We can put an agency with two or more parks, it's all alive, but if that's how it's done, then I doubt it's the natural heritage and what Mr. Komadina was saying to the big beasts that have a big radius of movement will benefit because someone behind that transmitter has to stand. Someone really has to follow it and make that decision. Not now that we won't be able to cover those costs, but because of what will come in the future. It's the essence of nature's protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34161	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I absolutely agree with you. I, even before this law came into the procedure, expressed my skepticism about the establishment of a central park agency in the Republic of Croatia, because the reason for its establishment and for the local level would not accidentally spend funds that local institutions are receiving is not enough to absolutely centralise the management of park areas in the Republic and then make one national state agency. I read Plan 21, not in detail, but I read it in detail in the section relating to environmental protection and nature. I'm sorry there's no colleague Holly, but in this Plan 21, I didn't read that the National State Agency is going to be formed, and then this statement cannot be based on Plan 21 as it is based on it because it doesn't say so. Only if the plan was not completed later after the election. But the basic plan doesn't say that. Therefore, the state, I do not agree with this bill, I have also spoken on behalf of the club and here I support Mrs Holly, which this bill departs from the plan, from the draft law which was in the procedure of the 5th month, and it significantly departs. But this law said that, if there was a possibility that the government would define the way park institutions in the Republic of Croatia operate against which I am, and I don't think that the government should allow the regulation past parliamentary deputies to determine, past the Parliament a way of managing national parks, because the protection of these areas practically works on appropriate institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34163	Thank you very much. Replicate response, colleague, please take care of the weather. The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34164	Well, Mr. Bačić, you said so precisely that I don't really know what to say to you, but I'll just remind you that I said that nothing at this point is forcing us to pass that law and that this is exactly the kind of moment that you've just mentioned could be further upgraded in an additional public debate, which is more so because those views were put forward in public debate and in May 2012, contrary to the proposed text. It's based on the government's office, that as competent as the government is, everyone, all the ministers and all the ministers at home in the protection of nature will be able to adequately determine it, I seriously doubt it, and I know what I'm saying is important for the local community to have a successful national park and nature park in its area. And in the long run, that's exactly the greatest development potential in the area. And in the illusion are those who, who think good investments will come to the ice, will not, will always come close to natural heritage, is this natural heritage, along with cultural heritage, the only additional value of their investment. Is if investments could be built anywhere then they wouldn't go as close as possible to the protected area because they know that if it comes to tourism they'll have more guests, incomes, etc. etc. It's such a powerful band that they need to be managed carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34165	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mesic, you have said that you do not understand and that you do not see the reason why this law is now being passed, but after that you have given at least two answers why it is being passed. Surely one of these answers is centralised to make it easier to manipulate. Of course, because people in Croatia know where they live, they are natives, jumping through windows with stone axes and happy tourists who come there. It is better somewhere in Zagreb in an agency to determine everything and agree to decide on them. And the other thing for sure, you also said that you didn't expect anything to happen much from giving in a concession of catering facilities. We've had opportunities recently to look at the example of Plitvice where workers don't let them get inside, where workers raise a grudge against having someone come to them now because they're doing a good job, but normally our country and what they do well will be given it, and what bad business does, no one will. So instead of protecting and protecting national goods and keeping jobs, we're going to make it possible for someone to come up with cheap concessions, fire workers nicely, and you can think that this concessionary who looks at the profits will take care of the protection of the environment and the protection of our nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34167	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34168	Well, I just wanted to boost the debate, that I killed myself asking myself if I didn't understand why it's going like that at this point. And in some ways, I am very familiar with the efforts of people working to preserve nature and natural heritage, and I know that it is not always easy for them, and that often times they are under a certain warning and a dose of misunderstanding, but I also know that it is a very good humane service that is capable of every worldwide, at every world debate, at every world convention to deal with their colleagues from Europe, and from a world that closely monitors international conventions. So if you want the UN, and those who speak clearly in favor of what you and I are saying, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34169	It's time to discuss my colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here I would, given that I am last in an individual debate, ask Mr. Minister that if he is truly benevolent according to the HDZ Club proposal, myself personally, to allow fishing in a special reserve, he then formulates in the same way the provision of an article that defines a special reservation in the way it is defined for a national park. Moreover, the Marine Fisheries Act is left to regulate the possibility of fishing in protected areas of nature by the Nature Protection Act. So, Mr. Minister, I think it would be good if in the same way you did to the national park, to define the possibility of fishing in a special reserve. And I think that's what citizens who live, for example in the Bay of Maloston really expect. The second thing that is also highlighted in the debate is the establishment of a single national institution for the management of protected areas of nature. That's what we were talking about earlier, I don't see what it is to centralise management in order to manage better, with for example the Lastovo Nature Park if the management of the park is in Zagreb. I don't see it, and I think the centralization of otherwise business that itself are even at the level of the unit of local self-government and even at the level of the district self-government, therefore at the level of the county should be enabled and left to manage the units of local or regional self-government. But what happens, for example, to this law? This law stipulates that concession fees are revenue to the state budget and we know that, as a rule, the revenues from the concession from the proceeds from the grant of concession goods are higher. So in the area for which, for example, the nature park, for which the institution was established, is the founder of the county, the gross income that has been left since the concession goes to the state budget. And income from concession goods that are generally significantly lower incomes are institutions. And the institution is funded by the founder and this is the county. This is, therefore, one night in my opinion, one contradiction for the state to declare a particular area protected, to collect concession revenues, and from that there is no cost at all and at the same time the county is setting up a unit or a management institution, has the cost and its income, or income, of that institution established by the county are only revenues from the concession approval. And since these protected spaces are significantly reduced economic activities, there are hardly any such approvals that would allow these activities. Therefore, I ask that everywhere where a unit of regional self-government is established an institution for the management of that space, all revenue in that space will be the income of an institution so as not to be an additional cost to the district self-government unit in the case of the county, and there is no reason for me to be an income then of the state budget. So we were never in the DHZ Club to set up a single park agency, and as far as I read, I said Plan 21 in the nature protection section, I didn't see it there, except I know that in the bill there was a proposal, a proposal to form a single national institution for the management of protected areas, and now this law is deviating from it, and it's not good. That's not good, that's where I support Mrs. Holly. What was in the previous law has been substantially amended in this bill. I also said that this law that defines protected spaces and so is the maritime well-being that is in this protected area of nature is less protected than by the general law. Less marine goods are kept in protected areas than in the general maritime good regime, so something that is outside the nature park and better preserved in the maritime good than in the protected area. That needs to be changed, and that's what I was saying on the parent board. It is necessary to clearly define in the law what provisions of the Law on the Sea Good apply also in the Law on the Protection of Nature, and when it comes to the way concession decisions are taken on the maritime good, when the deadlines set out in the Law on the Sea Good, because it is known that up to 20 years the County, over 20-50 Governments, and over 50 Governments are in agreement with the Parliament. Therefore, it should be clearly prescribed here so that there is no overlap between those two laws. Another thing when we're talking about marine good. It is not yet clear from this law whether the activity of nautical tourism is in protected areas of nature. It's not prescribed. For example, in Brijuni there is an open port for public transport that allows guests to arrive at Brijuni and another port from where there is this boat line is in Fažana. If we cannot declare the port open to public transport to Brijuni under this law, then this law will not allow the normal establishment of the Fažana line towards Brijuni. Another thing when we talk about nautical tourism, I asked the question to make it clear whether it is possible in national parks to carry out nautical tourism, and we know that at this point in Kornati national park there is a port of nautical tourism of Pishker, a concessionary of the ACI to which the concession expired. Is it possible under this Act that ACI as a Croatian national brand, when it comes to nautical tourism, can continue to use the Port of Pishkera in accordance with the law, whether the Government can call a tender for Pishkera, so I would ask that it also clearly prescribes whether it is really possible to establish it. When we talk about nautical tourism, therefore, this law stipulates that anchoring in protected areas of nature can only be carried out at locations prescribed by spatial plans. We know that often the spatial plans that set up space in local self-government units are not so detailed that they prescribe just all locations where there can be anchors in national parks or in any other protected areas. It would be good to establish a formulation in this law that, in addition to the locations defined by spatial plans where it is possible to anchor it, the possibility to determine the location for anchors is left behind and the institutions that adopt a plan to manage their own space, so that if certain changes occur, there is no need to change the spatial plan for which a political consensus should then be taken, given that it is a protected coastal area of the sea then it needs the consent of the County Institute, and then the Ministry and so on, etc. Which makes it terribly complicated to establish a simple link, the anchors in the areas that are protected under this law. It seems to me, therefore, that it would be good to hear that the Government accepts certain remarks made and associations that are involved in protecting nature that this law is returning to the public debate because it is important to withdraw from that proposal which was in May to return to the public debate, that after it is not in a hurry anyway, we are aware that we are not in a hurry with this law, because it is returning it to public debate to be the basis for a new public debate and not that it is the result of a public debate on the basis of a law which has largely deviated from this law which is now here on our benches, to listen to objections from the courts that have been referred to the objections, to the remarks made by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Ceh Fisher, etc. Therefore, it seems to me that there are a lot of questionnaires in this law and that, given the many changes it has experienced in relation to the initial draft law, it should go back to public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34171	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bačić and I come from the same constituency, the Malostonian area, and I think that regardless of which side we are telling us that we are aiming at all, as well as the other representatives, visible from these discussions on the one hand, to protect nature, and on the other hand to enable sometimes basic existential actions especially when we talk about the Bay of Maloston. In fact, the Bay of Maloston is famous, but we haven’t said that since the Roman era as exactly the area where clams are grown or produced. When you look at the geographical position itself, it is precisely the area of very favourable conditions for development and adult mussels, as well as various stages of larva. So today we have heard that the ban on fishing is read from this law. But if that were true, then it would be a disaster for the people of the Bay of Maloston, not only because of it but also for the shells. In fact, it is the fact that fish and shell predators are now responsible for preserving such an economic brand as oysters and mussels from the Bay of Maloston. So we talked about predators today, we talked about work. I don't know fish, but I do know fish, and I like to eat fish. Therefore, I think that the ban on fishing would actually harm the development of seashells, or this great brand. I have something else I'd like to offer you to apologize to. [[Thank you very much. Replication response/]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34173	Time. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Members of Šimac-Bonačić, not only are we coming from the same constituency, we come from the same county and it would be as good as you supported me and us at the HDZ Club that this bill in the section relating to a special reservation, or the Maloston Bay, to be accepted. I believe that the minister will also accept your suggestion and support to spell out what we are looking for so that there will be no later doubts about the realisation of other acts relying on this law and the Law on the management of this area, as well as other acts adopted at the level of the county, as well as at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, because it is not strange that it is precisely the possibility of fishing that shellfishers are most concerned. So it must already be clear to us that we must make it possible for just the fish predators to be caught in order to preserve and enable people who are dealing with the farming of shellfish to do virtually not destroy a third or half of the entire crop that they harvest in that area. So here I am also joining you to think about it one more time and to write it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34175	The Golden Commander's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34176	Madam Vice President. Here's two things, I'm also a supporter of a decentralised management system in general, not just here in the case of public institutions. But also we have now had this decentralised system actually concerns the appointment of the administrative councils of these institutions. There are several boards of directors, depending on where the facility lives. But we didn't have a system next, I don't understand why the state doesn't use the local and regional state that if there's a national park in that area, then publicly through the representative body, the minister of the candidate proposal for example. Board of directors. Because what did we have in practice? We've got today. We have a political frame in the decentralised system of actually centralised positioning. I know on our example that there are the echoes of national institutions established by some administrative council that God has asked who put it and by what criteria it has always been, that's how it is with you. And most of all, it's that criterion I said. As for those remarks by colleague Holy to address this standardisation through some coordination of directors or the coordination of board presidents or something, but good on that. From the maritime good of what you said, here I stand for something, look at me we have a riot on the maritime good, and now for protection we have an even bigger mess, for example nautical tourism. So what do you think a boatman from Italy knows when he throws an anchor that's beneath him a meadow of Poseidoni and he's going to isolate Poseidonia, and Poseidonija is again that I don't bother you very much for the fish fund. But what's missing is that we allow anchors not to anchor him, but... chain and we will. You didn't ruin anything. This one comes, binds, binds and goes, and this is how we have a bunch of anchor throws in all the waves of the Croatian Adriatic. I don't understand why we forbid the bays where they dock anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34177	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34178	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Komadin, the argument by which we will avoid political staffing in those small institutions across Croatia that deal with nature protection in a way that we will establish a national agency is simply raising personnel to a national level. So now they're going to frame the minister instead of 21 mayors who seem to be doing it on the ground. Therefore, we will not achieve the goal of protection, better protection by now staffing the minister instead of the mayors who know the terrain better because they live there. On the other hand, we also made one national agency famous in another law, the Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre, which should have contributed to better governance of the energy sector, by encouraging investments, etc. And what we got, we got, I expect a report to come on the business of this centre in the Parliament so let's see what the centre has done except spend on its own needs about 18 million kuna, it has developed two of us or three investments in Croatia, and it should have stimulated local self-government because it, as it does not know and the regional self-government, does not know how to realise a number of investments, for example, in raising the energy efficiency of public buildings in Croatia. This center proves to us that when we raise something to a national level, we will not achieve an effect because we will now take it away from our fingers and touch local self-government or regional self-government. That's how I see this agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34179	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34180	Mr. Bačiću, without the Brijuni port, would clearly not have the economic activity of Brijuni, there would be no tourist activity in Brijuni, there would be no catering activity in Brijuni, and that would mean bankruptcy and public institutions themselves. What needs to be done is to preserve that financial independence of Brijuni. We all know that the most sophisticated tourist system in Istria is Brijuni National Park. What should be Istria's feather is the most beautiful. However, I do not believe that anyone can deny the Brijuni activity, meaning that port if for no reason, dear guests or dear high guests would not be able to fit in that residential part, they would end that resident part of Brijuni. I think the legislator took care of them, even himself, and he didn't have anything like that in mind. What needs to be lifted on the Brijuni, however, is that wall between the commercial and residential parts. Not the port, meaning that wall that divides commercially from the residential part. I've never been to that residential part of my life, not that I couldn't, I didn't want to, but that's what needs to be lifted, and I'm sure no one can question the port.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34181	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34182	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Cain, Nature Protection Act, we need to keep those spaces that we determine that the spaces of special state interest and that we are proposing by this law to be determined by the foundation of the Natura 2000 project, but the protection itself is not enough. In places that are beautiful, which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia clearly that then they themselves become attractive and should be allowed to come to these places, to carry out activities that do not disrupt, not degrade this preserved environment in these nature parks, in national parks and special reserves, and I don't know where. Therefore, it should be clear by law that there is no dilemma that these activities can be carried out. I find it incomprehensible that we would, for example, ban the arrival of sailors at Kornati National Park. It just needs to be reduced to measure, it needs to be kept under control, it needs to know where these attachments can be carried out, whether there can be a port of nautical tourism, whether the Brijuni port can be open to... traffic etc. This is what I want us to do with this law absolutely in line with the Maritime Good Act because the Maritime Good Act has already prescribed all these opportunities and so on in national parks. And this law should remain at the level of that law as a matter of maritime well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34183	And Zeljko Kolar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34184	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Bacic's just a few points to your exposure. On the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection at our sessions whenever the government representatives were, you asked the question when we would get to the benches of the Nature Protection Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Waste Act. Now you're saying it's not good that the law came to the assembly bench now because it's different from that proposal that was... I just think the opposite, I think it's good that the law came on the bench and that you as a man with experience, who you were minister on behalf of clubs that we can all now say what we think about this bill. I personally think it's a good thing. It is not necessary to underestimate organisations dealing with environmental protection, not to underestimate all those I have listed in my debate that have been over 800 issues is anyone related to this law. Those who are interested and now will have enough time until the second reading to give their comments and suggestions, to get as good a Nature Protection Act as possible because this law is very complicated. Watch fellow Bačić, four clubs and four individual debates. You can't mess up. Because what's going on, you have to be very precise right now and you're going to be given someone that's a political issue and a development issue and you have to be very specific about what you want. So it's a very sensitive law. We're not keeping anything safe. And we all realized ourselves that those who took their place in the debate that many things had escaped from us. Let's create a system that will work, so whether the law will be a little better or the law a little worse just to break in on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34185	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34186	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Kolar, you're right. I am as chairman of the parent committee on several occasions, and you, as vice president, have requested that the government and the resolution ministry tell us clearly when three basic roof laws from part of environmental protection will come to debate in the Parliament. But just because we're looking for it doesn't mean that we're going to support a law that we don't agree with at the HDZ club right now, and that's why this law that's in the bathrooms is very important now is deviating from that law that came into public debate, which went into public debate, and that's what Mrs. Holly said before. So, that what was in the basic law when she was a minister is now an important step back and it is true, there she is right. Therefore, if something significant departs at the end of the public debate and when it enters the Parliament in relation to what it is, on that bill that went into public debate and when the proposer changes the essential position of the law itself in that law, then the law before it comes to the Parliament could, in turn, be made by the minister and the ministry to pass another month of contact with the interested public, hear what the new settings of this law are meant by the same interested public, and only then could that law be discussed. Therefore, the fact that we asked him to come to the Assembly as soon as possible does not mean that we will support what we do not agree on. I don't know where your argument is that we should support it now. We don't support it for essential reasons and formal reasons, so that's what the adoption procedure is all about. And on the other hand, we don't agree on certain settings that I'm on behalf of the club just before not just me, but other MPs who took part in which we disagreed with this law. And it's not good for us, as an argument for the adoption of the Nature Protection Act, to say that it will be fundamental, one of the fundamental reasons will be acceptable to investors. I think the Nature Protection Act should primarily protect nature, but not prevent investment. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34187	Thank you very much. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Mihajlo Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34188	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Nature Protection Act is one of the most important laws in this country. Nature, natural resources are a category of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia. It is defined in the Constitution itself. And that's why it's normal for a law like this to cause controversy, cause debate. And that's why it's normal because that there are not only predators in the Bay of Maloston but there are predators to nature and natural wealth. That is why there is a Nature Protection Act that needs to ensure one balance between economic interest in the use of natural resources and interests to preserve these natural resources, to preserve these resources for future generations, not to let what happened in some countries that I saw today and tried to compare like Great Britain. Unfortunately, they have succeeded in destroying their natural resources, and I do not believe that we should at least imitate ourselves in such lands. We must be proud to have a great wealth of biodiversity which we will make a great contribution to biodiversity and the EU, but it is our challenge to view it as an opportunity for development, not as an obstacle to development. When we talk about the Bay of Maloston, this law cannot solve individual cases. It must set the frameworks for the situation in the Bay of Maloston to be properly resolved. This law allows us to do so. When we talk about nature protection, conservation of nature is a necessary horizontal alignment. What does that mean? That means synchronising with other resors. Problem, I'd like to remind you of a problem in Maloston Bay that was declared a special reserve in the early '90s. The problems we talked about today exist, so 10, 15, and more years, they haven't been since yesterday. And I think it is extremely hypocritical to say that there is now one HDZ initiative to solve this problem when at the same time for 8 years and more years there was no will to solve this problem. Of course we in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture, understand and understand that the situation on the ground in the Bay of Maloston is a problem for the lives of people, co-existence of people and nature. And that's why I promise from this place that I will personally advocate that, together with Minister of Agriculture Jakovina, we will go out in the field, agree together how we will comply with the regulations to enable the co-existence of man and nature in the Bay of Maloston. And the causes of the problem and problem solving will not be this law but by agreement, one sustainable management plan of that area, so that we can have both shellfish and fish growers and those who want to under certain conditions they prescribe, so that they are the requirements of nature conservation so that they can perform and fish. And that's the only way. And that's why we're gonna go out in the field and coordinate our regulations and try to work out everything that you've been talking about. When we talk about the National Park Agency, I regret to say that my words have not been read with this law and the public presentation of this law when I specifically noted that the National Park Agency has not given up, that the National Park Agency, or the improvement of the management of protected areas, is the priority of this ministry and this Government. But how are we gonna do that? We'll only do this once we get one expert background, an expert analysis that will give recommendations on what management models are. Will it be one agency, two or three agencies that will manage 19 of these areas for which we have established public institutions? And that's the way to go, not to put it in the draft of the law to some agency, and before that, we didn't even realize the consequences of such a new way of organising. And as these protected areas were cared for so far, the fact is that since 2001 no administrative oversight has been carried out over these institutions. When we carried out administrative surveillance over all institutions during the last year where we had confirmed what we assumed was unrealized money, that there was a series of failures, violations of legislation, and that is another argument why we need to change the way we manage protected areas, that is our wealth, national wealth, and no one has the right to privatise it and ineffectively manage it. The law said I'd go through a wide public debate. Early last year, when 800 remarks arrived, suggestions, criticism on the proposal. After these criticisms were analysed, those which were rational and meaningful were implemented in this proposal. Several consultations have been conducted with NGOs whose observations we have also observed here. Certain remarks, suggestions and suggestions have been made through the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Another proof that we wanted a public, open debate on this law is that the law was sent to a regular procedure, regardless of the law that took over the legal property of the EU and therefore there was the possibility of going to an emergency procedure. So we go into two readings and all the remarks will be that are meaningful and rational to be and respected. So the argument that an adequate public debate has not been conducted certainly does not stand. This law wasn't made for investment, it's incorrect, but this law creates a prerequisite for human and nature co-existence, and that means then procedures and investments to be implemented efficiently and transparently, not so that these procedures are inconclusive. And that is why this law contributes to this, it also, therefore, the efficiency and speed of the proceedings does not go to the expense of the quality of the proceedings. The deadlines defined by European directives and international conventions related to public inclusion are respected here and they are not shortened. It is therefore that the effectiveness of the state administration is increased. So, in that sense, deadlines are cut. It is necessary to pass the law before entering the EU because I have also said that the acquis is being taken over and another important fact is that this law creates a legal framework for the adoption of the NATURA regulation in 2000, a new ecological network for which Croatia is obliged, which Croatia is obliged to bring before its entry into the EU, and that is why this law must go before entering the EU itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34189	Thank you, Minister. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34190	Thank you, Mr. President. A moment ago when I was talking about the pebbles and the stone day, I said that today is the day of the St. Joseph, here's my chance to congratulate you on the name of the day. Mr. Minister, you said you were going to visit the Bay of Maloston with Minister Jakovina. I must tell you that as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, there are no problems in fishing in the Bay of Maloston. According to the Maritime Fisheries Act, this is exclusively in your jurisdiction and this is prescribed in Article 7. The sea fishing law. So, you just write it down in the law, and you can go to Maloston Bay dapaca, but the only thing that can stop it is fishing is this law we're discussing today. And as far as the National Park Agency is concerned, Mrs. Holly does not agree with this law in substance because she thinks that in an important step away from that law that went to a public debate, and we at the HDZ Club disagree formally or in substance with this bill, because we also hold that he must return to the previous public debate because it is important to depart from what was the bill she pointed out when she was Minister Mrs. Holly. And that's why we're opposed to the law going this way to another reading and we're asking it to go back to a public debate where it's actually stopped for a few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34191	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Minister, you've said several times that you promise to solve some problems, promise that you'll go with your colleague from agriculture to Maloston Bay and I'm listening here today to the debate and it seems to me that even in those promises some of your colleagues don't believe in the club of representatives from which you come. So then I ask myself a question to you too do you really think that in this assembly, at least in one large part, there are still people who believe that you will actually make a promise, when in the end we have listened to the debates from your club that this law is not in line with the promises of Plan 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34193	Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the reports for discussion and replication. I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote once the conditions are met. Proposal for a law on nature protection, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 301. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on the protection of nature is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'm asking you, by raising your hand, to state who's behind this conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 37 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34196	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians and parliamentary representatives. Today I represent the candidate for the new Minister of Tourism, Mr. Dark Lorencin. His predecessor Veljko Ostojić was a good minister, competent, so one of several people in Croatia who represents the very top of knowledge and expertise, and also politics because the government is a political body, the government is a place of character and decision-making, or talks about decisions, and then making decisions, and not just the professions of the profession is in the system, the profession is in the pyramid, if it is on top too. However, he stepped down because of a whole series of questions that asked for answers and which at one point began to burden our government, my government, with which we have nothing and cannot give answers. His successor here is Mr. Darko Lorencin, 43 years old, or 43 years old. He's a graduate economist, and without anyone being offended, when I look at the Assembly's composition, he's probably not a parliamentary representative, there's probably no one or maybe 2 or 3 people who know more about tourism than he does, have more experience, have more relevant knowledge. Both as a politician and as an entrepreneur and as director of the Istrian Development Agency, the Istrian Development Agency is amongst, again, the narrow circle of people in Croatia who know what they say when they talk about tourism. In addition, he is politically responsible, he is a member of the IDS, he is the chairman of the central council, i.e. the main council, the party's main body. Therefore, this line of responsibility, if possible, must be clear. So, I'm always talking and I'm gonna talk to the political parties about the constitutional category, if they're well-organised, supervised, financially and procedurally, if they monitor themselves and if the public controls them, they're a guarantee of the stability and certainty of the political system predictable, controlling, and they know who they're responding to with all their shortcomings. This second one, you know how it works and you know what people don't respond to. Therefore, I do not hesitate to stress that I believe in the political government because it is one of the foundations of liberal democracy, the political government is the Government of Responsibility. Mr. Lorencin is from Istria, he's from the IDS, he's a party that's a member of our coalition and will remain a member of our coalition as far as I'm concerned. About competences were these days words, you probably know everything but out of respect for the Parliament I will only repeat once again what I have said in part, so he is an economist, speaks several languages, worked in the branch, studied abroad, lived abroad, from Milan, Harvard, but it is less important for his career. The important thing is that where this job is best done in Croatia he was present both as a politician, and as a clerk, and as an administrator and organizer, and as an entrepreneur who therefore raised commercial loans and who, like all entrepreneurs, returns them, sells what he has to offer on the market and knows the segment of the market very well. And it was very important to me also when I offered this place, for a short time to the president of IDS, simply to get into the team and to have the knowledge and experience that is available, and what is the results and work and quality, but also some favourable circumstances for Istria, simply transfer to those parts of Croatia that will be equally good tomorrow. And since we're competitive people and competitive people why not better, why not us better than competition. Why not ten years from now better than those who are our role models, and we're not bad ourselves. So, in short, Mr. Darko Lorencin is among the best candidates in the reference for the Minister of Tourism that Croatia had. I can't say the best, because there were several good ones, but politics is a uncertain job, tourism is one of the economic branches that are important in Croatia, which will be more important to me in years to come, not because I might not want Croatia to be dominant in technologies, but simply our experience, our tradition and the fact that we are the masters of a very valuable resource that has been discussed in previous discussions about the Nature Protection Act. This is a Croatian treasure, and we just need to look at how some EU members who are in major economic problems managed it today. We already know a lot of what we need to do, and we must never repeat what they did. So, in front of us are great opportunities and tourism is, regardless of what may not be a high-tech resort but can be accumulating, it is capital intensive and the cycles are very long, but it opens up a space for hiring a large number of people. Only when we look at Austria where 4% are unemployed and 8% among the younger than 25, many of these people work in tourism and don't have all colleges and don't need it, but they have professions, knowledge, perseverance, diligence and good organisation. And that's what we expect from the Minister of Tourism, from the resistors to the extent that he can. It's on the one hand, someone's going to say easy work, on the other hand it's a hard job because it's expected a lot and the instruments you have aren't really that tough. So, you must be both organizer and very important, very important communicator when you represent Croatia abroad, that people simply see you as some kind of extension of that product, so part of that product that you know what you're talking about, that you believe what you're talking about and that you simply leave the impression that people who come to Croatia will get value for money and something more than that. My worst experiences as a guest and consumer in tourism were when I went somewhere in good faith, paid a lot of money and returned disappointed. That's what happened to me in neighboring countries. It's something we can't afford and we won't get to it overnight. So some parts of Croatia have already gone far in that sense. Others aren't far behind, they have objective reasons why they're lagging behind. It is up to us to give everyone an equal chance and for tourism to be even more pro-pulsive and even more modern economic branch that will work all year round, which will unfortunately be as expensive loans as they are, and will be cheaper in the future, so that people are not in trauma all the time, so that Europe is not banking but to be civil and to be entrepreneurial for all those who want to be entrepreneurs and we have space for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34197	Thank you too, Croatian Prime Minister. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is club IDS and respected representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34198	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the IDS Club, I am pleased that Mr Darko Lorecin, former assistant minister of the economy for investment and competitiveness, is proposed. I would like to point out that political agreement but also the consensus of the public and real tourism sector are both a quality and a good foundation but also the right direction in selecting Mr. Lorencin as Minister of Tourism. I would add that Mr. Lorencin is a person who is very well aware of the economic flows in our country, which is significant for the duty he is proposed to, that the person who is ready to deal with the challenges of the post of Minister of Tourism. And what I also want to point out in particular is that Mr. Lorencin's choice is from the most developed tourist region which has actually made the biggest and most qualitative step in Croatian tourism. In his current career, Mr. Lorencin has performed a number of prominent duties that I am singled out in the tourist community of the Istrian County, the management of the Istrian Development Agency over a period of ten years, which was a member of the headship of the Istrian County and in charge of EU funds and cooperation with state enterprises and the public sector, was the head of the Agroturzm project in Istria, which was then a relatively new type of tourism that fully lived in Istria, especially in its central part, and which contributed to the revitalisation of the entire interior of Istria and its small entrepreneurship, and Mr. Darko Lorencin as assistant minister of the economy, member of the board of the Agency, for investments, the competitiveness of which is the main task to bring as much investment as possible to Croatia. This experience and competences proved in various activities and related to the economy, related to tourism and strategic planning, were both the basis and the basis of the IDS to propose and support Darko Lorencin for the role of Minister of Tourism to whom we wish a great deal of success.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34199	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the Club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you are, dear representative Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34200	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We've seen all sorts of wonders in this House, all sorts of things happening. There were brilliant performance speeches that spoke about concillarity, about cooperation, about joint action, after that nothing. There has been a statement that the people we trust will be employed and we stand for them and guarantee our own political heads for their success. When it turned out that these people should not be overly trusted when persons began to walk away from responsibility, nothing happened. There were non-serious working organizations, that you don't know what you're going to do tomorrow, and tomorrow you're doing a very important thing that needs to be thoroughly prepared and something to know, but you don't know what's going to happen as it is today. It was an insult. From this pay phone said that MPs are illiterate, that they don't understand even if they're academics, they don't benefit from it, that their intelligence is below average, they're born in the wrong place and stuff. We've seen all sorts of miracles, but this is the miracle we're looking at today we've never seen before. The leader of one of the ruling coalition's parties declared a pre-election programme that won the election, declared him dead. So he declared the leader of the coalition party Program 21 dead. One minister from that same party gets caught, let's say gently with my hand in the jam, in a strange place of my hand and walk away. The prime minister sets up another minister from the same party, which is from a party claiming that the programme under which they came to power is dead. At the same time, the minister is on an independent EU candidate list for the party's parliament from the beginning of my speech. The situation is fantasymagorical and really falls into categories of wonders. You don't know exactly who's alive and who's dead. Mr. Jakovcic claimed that Program 21 was dead, he was never alive. He was never alive because he never began to function as far as he could see from all the results that I am now not listing numbers on the unemployed, on GDP's decline in poverty, on blocked accounts, these figures are known. The government's work programme we voted here is either dead or alive anyway, nothing happens to him anyway. In the field of tourism, this programme of government work, for example, says the government tourism policy and the construction of a new business environment, the government will be based on a new management model and principles of sustainability and excellence, because it is the only way Croatia can count on growth of additional values and such. A little further says, for the existing tourism companies in the majority state-owned, we will assess the market potential and propose a business strategy that can include sales, bankruptcy or liquidation. Further in what the government will do, the government will formulate a new model of management of our tourist destinations, activate a new model of the tourism real estate market to encourage investment, reduce investment risk, formulate the concept of building capacity of the institutions of staff, management, quality and not sufficient tourism infrastructure with strong dependence on EU structural and basic funds. Finally, define the new system and marketing content of Croatian tourism in line with the competitive positioning of Croatian tourism that seeks European excellence. It's great that we had a great season. Did we have a great season because some of this came true? No doubt we didn't cause it to have a great season. We had a great season because there were great circumstances. Out of all this stuff that's listed here, it's done little or nothing. The new minister announces he will take the steps previously in one media release. Not entirely, I guess. In such a situation when things are collapsing and they're collapsing we're all aware of it, we don't have to prove it in particular, the prime minister can, of course, ban questions, for example, he can. He can't see unreported property, he can. He can set the scales, a little bit worse, a little down, depends on the opportunity. It can stop Reuters and other media. But what the Prime Minister can't hide can't hide the truth. And the truth is every once in a while here in the square inside those iron fences, inside the cages. The truth is told by workers who protest these cages. They protest because they didn't get paid for six months and have nothing to eat. The truth can also be read on portals if not in the media that someone is controlling or not. And the truth as ugly as it is is waiting for us, waiting for this government, waiting for us all in the election, and they'll catch on, no help. Besides, what did this government give us to show her trust today? She gave us an increased VAT, gave us a significantly increased share of the poor in Croatia, gave us significantly increased unemployment. Okay, the answer can be all that's still started and started with the HDZ government which is true, of course, but it's given us one arrogance, the arrogance of the government that says so now we're the government, we're going to decide now and we're going to decide what you can do for us. Believe me, the people can tell you, if they can never make your election. She gave us government and Latin proverbs, insensitiveness for those who are going through the worst in this whole situation, insensitiveness that borders on autism and gives us blackness. And that blackness got in, so I can almost say national mentality in how people see this country. And now that ink through the underground canals comes to an area elsewhere, in a more dangerous place. Let's watch out for that ink. Because of everything that's been going on, because of everything you've done wrong, and you should have done better, and especially because of everything you haven't done, and you should have done, we won't and we can't have the Croatian Labour Labour Party going on and can't trust your minister. As long as something important doesn't change in this country or until we get to a choice, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34201	Thank you, too. A replica of the respected representative of Zlatko Komadina has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34202	Your Honor, Mr. President. This is a typical performance by Labourists in this Croatian Assembly where everything is black and nothing is wrong. I'm not going to say now why it's like that because it would take too much time, but it can't be said that nothing was done in the resort of tourism. It's not fair first of all to a fellow former minister. The note bene behind it stands the best tourist season, of course not with its sole merit, but it states that it has referred to the parliamentary procedure precisely this agenda of tourism development strategy by 2020, says that in cooperation with other ministries, primarily the Prime Minister, the finance minister solves one of the most important things for tourism, which is the rate of value added tax, on services in tourism of 10%. Therefore, nothing can be said to be done. And if tourism is happening, hear the weather and the atmosphere happen, so if the sun is the Internet and then we're close to the destination, so we're a safe destination, and we'll be even safer if we stop these escapades of our grains, etc., then we'd be safer. Therefore, the tourism minister or the tourism minister is certainly not a person who can manage tourism because there is no and what the prime minister said is a management authority, but the minister is primarily a promoter, so to speak or promoter of this tourism towards other ministries, to indicate what to solve and fix because tourism is more or less a private sector and can not be managed by the minister in that part, but something through... tourism communities is not too much, but it is also a promoter towards the broadcasting markets and therefore our overall offer forms and that in the better way it manages the destination by viewing Croatia as a unique destination and subregion of course which exist in Croatia. So we can't speak in a way, I mean we can talk but it's not true what Mr. Vuljanic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34203	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34204	Thank you. I was talking about the government's work first of all, of course, and the Ministry of Tourism that's being discussed today within that government. One confusion and a lack of strategy, the lack of a clear goal of where and how it goes leads to panic, black, and that blackness, to repeat once again, emerges to the surface. It is dangerous for everyone, especially for the Croatian state, especially at the moment, and it is not an accident that this is happening. Tourism, of course, is not an island. I can't say that the Minister of Tourism didn't do anything or did anything, and I don't know or can say it, I didn't mean it or say it. However, tourism is not an island within the government that can function independently and independently perfectly, and other things do not work. And they don't work, look at whatever number you want, look at whatever street you want, whatever factory you want, whatever you want, whoever you want, whoever you want, whatever Croatian citizens you want. Things don't work, and that's why we don't trust people who lead in ways that things don't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34205	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, respected Zoran Milanovic, president of the Croatian government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34206	Dear fellow Vuljanic, a member of the Liberal Party in everything not only on behalf of the Liberal Party yesterday, but in a programme of a true Liberal Party that is not the Labour Party, a recent member of the Labour Party that advocates Europe of citizens, not the Europe of the Banks, we suddenly changed the world view completely of the Copernicus and you and your party president whose names you so ingeniously thought of, as you would say fantasmagorically. This is Parliament, so let's talk about parliament, fantasism, birthplaces, bans on issues and more importantly what I'm going to say at the end of this short inter-exposure. So I never forbid questions, I asked not to answer the question and publicly, I speak publicly, I have no other instruments. I asked because the question was offensive, because at the end of the line it prevents the journalist from earning his salary. You've got the data, you've got the research. The minister, or candidate for minister, has done everything according to the law, and as long as it is trampled, we will not give it away from anyone. As far as the place of birth is concerned, please tell the truth. So my views here are clearly stated, and now it's being manipulated by the fact that I called someone for a place of birth. Well, my son was born in Brussels, what a place to be born. There was no talk, there was talk of something else, and that story is repeated, and you know very well what I'm talking about and what I'm aiming at, the understanding and knowledge of Croatian society, its diversity, trauma, etc. However, to come to what is important, when it comes to a party that opposes European elections on a special date, which was against the referendum on the European Union, I will not say that you are Europhobia but that you love euro, you love, especially when they are paid in wages you intend to earn by placing yourself in Brussels. You don't hate that. And as much intensity as it may be to make this campaign an extremist farce will not go undetected that this is also about the elemental, civil and political honesty, the attitude towards these same unfortunate people you're so keenly looking for, but the dead would grab 7000 euros cold, which is plus, of course, extras, plus the additions that are huge, which has been a political opposition to issues in Brussels for years and today is a question that is very difficult because the European Parliament is not the European Commission and the European Parliament are not residents of Brussels, but are residents of their places and cities. Therefore, anyone who makes this clear does not. I will say directly to the face that he is a hypocrite, that he is greedy and that he can't justify anything that we in the SDP are going to do, so give up everything that's the difference between a parliamentary and a European salary because it's a question. And it will always be disputed for me as the representative in Thrace and Scandinavia receives the same salary plus expenses because it is such big and unearned money in a situation where you spend half a month in Karlovac, Mr Vuljanic. You have expensive European elections special because I guess that allows people to hear about the subject, but you don't hate to take 7,000 euros plus 300 euros a day for every day in Brussels, which is 4 and a half thousand euros for which you can hire a studio so that you still have a bunch of euros left in Brussels for 2 weeks and what day in Strasbourg. That's not fair. The topic will come to the agenda, slowly, almost a month before the election. That's what you tell me. These are fantasmogorical topics. I already see that they have responded to the replica of those who are most itchy, who have sent people to the European Parliament who have taken a parliamentary pension here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34207	Thank you very much. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34208	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, when you don't see anyone wanting to offend a parliamentary representative, I won't even remind you of that. Okay. The prime minister obviously has the right here to insult parliamentary deputies, so let them do it. This argument ad-hominem to use the Latin phrase, the arguments ad-hominem always talk about the one who brings them out and the fact that there are no real arguments, and then it goes with the argument ad-hominem. If I tell you, you're ugly, and you tell me, and your dad has a big nose. Well, wait, it's about your beauty. Therefore, these arguments as to how you listed them have no real meaning and cannot be pollemized with them. You don't need to lose your temper, you don't need to lose your temper. This is not the time to chew your nerves, and this is not the worst time you'll ever find yourself. There'll be worse. So it makes no sense to lose your nerves. Who's here is Eurofob and who's rooting for Europe and who's done something to popularize the idea of Europe. That would be longer to talk about and I don't feel a bit inferior here versus you and your party, definitely. With us you see a wonderful miracle the party does not determine the salary and will not determine it in the future. If I'm gonna give some of my pay to someone, then I'm gonna give it to them so nobody knows. I'm not putting that on the big headlines and the headlines. I'll give it because I want to, and I won't have a party and a party boss tell me how much I'm gonna get paid. Well, no, I don't think so. It's been 20 years and a few years. Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34209	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34210	I suggest you take a step further, make it so nobody knows either. That's the best way. As for the arguments ad-hominem, I answered your arguments ad-hominem, untrue, on the charges that I called people for birthplace - I didn't but for something else and in some other context. To ban questions, I didn't. I asked him to answer them. These are all arguments ad-hominem, Mr. Up until yesterday, a member of the Liberal Party. Secondly, I don't determine wages. I appeal, no one sign anything, no one can, because it's against the law. We don't have those farces. So he will or won't. Who knows, someone might let me down, but it's a matter of human honesty and trust, something we all have to work on. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34211	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34212	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, has again said a series of insults, again from this payphone, you are demeaning parliamentary representatives. I'll only talk about those lies of yours. You said Croatian Labourists were against the EU referendum, which is not true. We were for a delay in the referendum for just 3 weeks, for the education of Croatian citizens. We said if Croatian citizens will have more opportunities to find out what awaits us in the EU, if we will educate them on this. We even talked about the EU, we want Croatian citizens to vote for the EU, we urged citizens to vote to join the EU. He'll have more time, the exit will be bigger, the legitimacy of that act would be greater. You didn't agree to that, and now you're calming souls here from the pay phone saying that we are Europhobias, that we were against the EU referendum. I mean, from where? There are transcripts of our speech. There were a few other clubs, constituencies who stood up for the same thing. It seems to me that only one parliamentary representative or one parliamentary representative was against joining the EU, no one else. They're all, or they're abstentions. Everyone else was constructive. Instead of running the state, you give us lessons every time you come here. We fear neither these lessons nor the public fear your lessons, but we simply fear for the fate of this country. Instead of managing the state, you argue, you cause unrest in that Croatia each time, and I don't think it leads anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34213	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34214	I challenge, I call for national impatience. That's what you said. I'm causing a riot? Well, look, first of all, I wasn't saying that your esteemed fellow liberal who is now in favour of banking Europe, so against banking Europe, he insulted me. I'm just saying he's telling the truth. When I criticize you, you say I offended you. That's very transparent. So he started talking, said a series of things that aren't really true, I mean they put me in one context that I don't belong to. I didn't call it an insult, because this is Parliament. Look at yourself on YouTube, what it looks like in parliaments that are still our role model. So let's not make it up. There's no offense, there's only truth and a country where, as you say, don't be afraid of my lessons, it's a happy country. The Jerbo lesson, except for second-raters, is not feared by anyone. Who's afraid of lessons? You said that Croatia is not afraid of my lessons. So what are you supposed to be afraid of? Cloud day? He's not afraid because they're not dangerous. They have no reason to be afraid. I never said you were Europhobia, not now. I said I won't tell Europhobia, so I quote, so I'm not absolutely verifiable you're not a Europhobia and don't make it up. I said you were acting like Eurosceptics. It's different, it's not the same. And why did you do that? So because you wanted to postpone the referendum for three weeks in which you would educate the ignorant and the unfortunate people. After 10 years of negotiations to understand what the EU is. I don't have such a low opinion about people, and even now in these elections, some would like to educate people again so they can spend the grant they got in their organizations because it takes them two months longer. And we come from this logic, in time, and how many people will be motivated, and that depends on us, on you, on the persuasion of your liberal and neoliberal program or the labor program, on our credibility to get people out of the election but not by force, but by arguments. What kind of education do people have? So what do you think people are really so childish and infantile?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34215	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34216	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've had a shorter and longer version of the debate prepared, and now I'm still going to decide on the longer one. They say that an attitude that encourages, or overestimating, its own value that promotes pridefulness or contempt for others is called pride.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34217	Can you turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34218	Yeah, and she's inspired by narcissism and emptyness. You mentioned at one point how replicas are reported by those who itch so you said something in style and those who sent them to the European Parliament that they took from the parliamentary pension. And I will only answer you before I have a debate on behalf of the club, so you better send it to the European Parliament and whoever took a parliamentary pension based on legal regulations than send someone to the European Parliament who, with his fat trast, has disgraced all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34219	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34220	Your definition of demeanor is probably from the militia service manual, isn't it? That's what she sounded like. I have about your definition of my opinion. And I beg you again don't mock people who don't deserve it, have serious careers like your doctor only in another profession, have excellent high school education, experience in their work, speak language, though not quite like the original speakers, and now if you can mock it, I can't wait to hear how much better you are than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34221	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. We're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to HDSSB club and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34222	In the Croatian Parliament I speak Croatian, that is most important. Today is a significant day for the Croatian people, the feast of St. Joseph. Here is from 326 years ago, according to the decision of the Croatian Assembly of Protectors of the Croatian People. Therefore, I congratulate you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament today, on all Josephs and Josephs. Today is also 452 days since the current Croatian government settled in the Bane dvors, and in these 452 days we have already witnessed a proposal for a vote of confidence in the new minister in this government four times today. On average, every 113 days, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia changes one of his ministers. If it continues at such a pace at the scheduled 4-year term, if it ends in these 1460 days, we will change 13 ministers, 13 out of 20. Which is too much, it's too much. The reasons for the changes in this government so far are indeed unique, from a high moral scale, through the force of the law to face the consequences of a tragic car accident, to the court ruling of roschads in ministerial chairs. Today we have a change caused by a new, different reason. The former tourism minister was caught in a network of his own schemes, lies, deceptions and frauds. That's the only truth. He went on his own free will, but full of pockets. And the benefit of the Croatian people is that a minister left his ministerial chair, and from the Ban Courts he went with a bag full of money. Like some other ministers from the previous Croatian government. A man with no Minister's honor, no official driver and no cell phone, but he held on to 24 million kunas illegally acquired. And the Prime Minister whose minister he was was to escort him and fire him with a bag full of gifts, and to us today as if nothing special had happened is a new face for a vacant minister's chair. It's easy to quit on principle to eat a donkey wolf and nothing to anyone. Well, that shouldn't be the way it is. First it was due to pay back money to the Croatian state and then some former minister goes where he belongs, and then we can discuss who will succeed him. That would be, not only fairer, but normalr and more correct, wouldn't it? Speaking of 23 December 2011, today's Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic represented candidates for ministers, I said on behalf of the club of representatives: "Most of them we know, more or less. Some of us will have yet to get to know each other, but we are starting to believe that it is honest and honest people, we believe and hope that we will have such conviction at the end of their duties today." Teached by the experience of what has happened in the current Croatian government over the past 15 months, and especially with the way it works and even more with the results of this work, these words are unfortunately without question today. In this light, some of the dilemmas that appear in public can not be ignored when it comes to today's candidate for the new tourism minister. The man has not yet sat in that chair, and many questions are already being asked about him, and to which the public does not get answers. And behaving as high a duty as it is to be minister in Croatia to the government, gives no room for any dilemmas or for those in a possible conflict of interest in relation to the alleged transferable, transfer of management stakes in the family company to the wife. And that's why there's no more unconditional trust. They say our people from a long time ago, "Congratulations to everyone, religion to anyone." But this is neither the only nor the biggest problem that Croatian citizens face when it comes to the current Kukuriku government. Today we are discussing the Minister of Tourism's trust, but since this is already four changes in the ministers over the past 15 months, the question is what is happening to the government as a whole and what kind of government we have today. 452 days ago, we told you this and the following: "Don't be just another, be a different authority. Be honest, responsible, socially sensitive, nationally well-aware Croatian government." That's what we're all going to evaluate, and we're going to follow that closely. And what do we have today? Here is a government that, instead of extracting the state from the crisis in Croatia, not only deepens the economic, but every day also creates extremely dangerous divisions for the Croatian society, whether secular, moral, religious and political. This government insists on returning and some terms from the time we were convinced had passed. Whoever thinks differently or disagrees with the moves of this so-called. Social democratic authorities are getting an express mark on their spines, right-wing forces that spread hatred or black shirts. For this authority, it is a backdrop not to agree with the Law on Medical Aided Insemination that disrespects life from conception. Oppose of imposing the thesis that children in schools should teach us that it is gay ok, that they should not allow same sex couples to give birth to children through medical help insemination or adoption of children, give the Church the right to express its views on all socially important processes and events, and also say that Croatian generals have the right to talk about Croatian seriousness. Lastly, it is thought that it is against all Croatian reconciliation to honor only the victims of fascism, not at least equal to the numerous victims of the never-punished communist criminals. Today, 452 days of the rule of this Croatian Government have 375 000 unemployed, 70 000 more than at the beginning of their work, we have a country where, without pay or minimum wage, works for hundreds of thousands of workers, we have a country where, with college diplomas, if you're lucky, it becomes the best volunteer or seasoner, we have a country that was not long ago the grain of this part of Europe and imports 40% of food, we have a country that runs a policy of destroying Croatian villages and agriculture, we have a country of growing numbers of poor and hungry people, a country after Greece, Bulgaria and Romania's highest poverty rate in the European Community of people, we have a country with such tax burdens that do not only fail domestic companies but even Chinese shops, we have countries where its ministers attract investors with such messages that no one would normally invest in Croatia today, we have a country whose government leads not only to the development and not the development of youth and the return of Croatia's youth. We have in the end and a country where pensioners with their miserable pensions not only feed themselves and their adults, and unemployed children are already schooling their grandchildren, we have a state with the highest degree of centralisation and with the highest level of differences in the level of development of certain regions, we have a country where its citizens suffer from exchange rates and bankruptcy. And we have a Croatian government for which spreading hate speech is saying that it is not normal for Croatian heroes to lie in prisons because they defended their homeland, while some abolised Chetniks sit in the Croatian Assembly or enjoy parliamentary pensions. It is unfortunately today's Croatian economic, social and political reality, a reality that has been the result of the work of the Ban Courts for the past 15 months. 15 months of lost time, "And there's no greater damage than lost time." He also said, "Michelangelo." Today we are proposing a new tourism minister, I was already talking about it at the beginning of this debate, but the problem of the Croatian state today is not only this vacant ministerial post, but also more of the still-filled ministerial chair. The Republic of Croatia today has a much more serious problem. An old Austrian saying says, "power needs control."but with control is equally important and self-control. I know it's not easy to bear the burden of responsibility of the Prime Minister of a state, it's quite clear, but everyone has to carry as much weight as he can bear. And if the burden begins to bend and break it, then the burden should be removed from the bed and placed upon him who will be able to bear it. In line with the saying, "If you know your wings are short, it doesn't fly far and high.". Activating power means being ready in advance for the fact of exposure to the public's eyes for every spoken word, for every look, for every gesture, for every movement, for every jump or for every fall. It means being willing not only to praise but even more to critics and justifiable ones, even those, sometimes unwarranted. In the conduct of power, the greatest enemy on the way to success is haughtiness, overestimation of his own value or his own skills, both pride and insolence and contempt towards other people. And this is exactly the kind of phenomenon that has been growing lately in public behaviour in the first among the same in the Croatian government. It is unacceptable for the Croatian Prime Minister to be irrevocable in public with anyone who wrongly looks at him and let alone object to him. Inappropriate and insolent verbal accounts were initially reserved for political insolents or at a particular press but even more rude here in the Assembly. But now they've grown into something even worse to deal with both politicians and athletes and history teachers and political analysts and economic experts, as well as journalists. When a President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows himself to tell his political rival that he is having sex with the camera, then it is a very serious sign that the level of haughtiness has reached a critical point for him personally and for his duties as well as for the entire state whose representative is the executive authority. From uncontrollable boasts and feelings of untouchableness to the desire for a dictator is a very small step. And to this step, no one in democratically independent Croatia has the right as no one, and especially not the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, has the right, not even in his dream, let alone in the announcement. Nor when the rights of unsuspecting comparisons with some other countries say a terrible statement that there was a civil war in Croatia because saying that war destruction and atrocities were made to the Croatian people by large-scale Serbian and Chetnik aggressors during the Homeland War was the result of civil war rather than the criminal aggression of Montenegro and so on. JNA on the Republic of Croatia is an act of national high treason. These words destroy the very foundations of the formation of a sovereign and independent Croatian state. In the HDSSB, we are not surprised by the prime minister's words and do not think that they are by chance because they are such as in the Croatian state dangerous qualifications on the Homeland War as a civil war and what we have been warning about for years can be read in the reasons of the rulings of Croatian non-Serbian but Croatian courts in mounted political processes which these same political courts have been looking for domestic foreign water officials against Croatian defenders. As in the ruling of the Croatian General Glavas, we find just such findings that by 8. October 1991. For years in the Republic of Croatia, there has been no aggression, but I have been quoting the armed conflict between Croatian paramilitary troops and regular JNA military units, or civil war. Such statements and such findings are nothing but a reckless attempt at a malicious revision of the history of the Homeland War and the creation of an independent and independent Croatia, which was inadmissible to anyone in the executive, judicial or legislative power. Finally, I would like to point out that the Croatian Prime Minister must take care that he is the Prime Minister of all Croatian citizens, including Croats, and not only members of national minorities living in the Republic of Croatia. Protecting all constitutional rights of every Croatian citizen regardless of his national, religious or other belongings unquestionably, but with the same passion of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia should also protect the rights of every member of the Croatian people even though our prime minister often speaks a lot, and little or nothing says there is one precise finding he has said these days. It's her to quote serious things happening in Croatia. Only these serious things are not that in Croatia right-wing forces spread hatred but these serious things are that this so-called The Social Democratic Government is spreading poverty and poverty to Croatia. In conclusion, because the former tourism minister resigned but retained 24 million illegally acquired kunas and because of unresolved dilemmas in connection with today's proposed candidate for his successor, we will be against this proposal. And as for the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, although he himself is often very easy to direct insults to others, we are against his insults. He doesn't need to be offended, he needs to be replaced. More specifically, he should resign himself at the moment for the benefit of not only himself but above all the entire Croatian state he considers a random state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34223	Mr. Representative, before the replica, I must warn you of two things. May I warn you in peace now on two things? The first thing is that in Croatia, the presummation of innocence is a constitutional category and a fundamental human right, it is an obligation for all of you to respect it. Secondly, your arbitration of Croatian courts' decisions is a display of disrespect for Croatian courts. One thing's not right for a pay phone. Your political views are legitimate, you are an opposition party and I will not enter it, but I am obliged to protect this because it is the constitutional fundamental values of Croatian society. Now, on your exhibit, we have three replicas reported. The first replica and respected representative of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34224	Dear Mr. Buric, I see you've been reading your presentations, which means you've missed your premeditated topic. You didn't say anything about the appointment of the Minister of Tourism, which is the topic today. The other thing I wanted to say was the President of the Parliament. You denied the legal order of the Republic of Croatia with a statement about an abolised Chetnik and a closed Croatian general. So I'd like to ask you to concentrate. Of course, the Croatian public has the right to hear your views but not just on every topic discussed here, so Mr. President is obviously a very nice man, so he did not interrupt you and take your word for it because he says the public has the right to know, but after all this is being discussed, there is no telling what the Croatian public will conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34225	Replica response, Honored Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34226	Dear colleague Komadina, the Croatian public will conclude what she wants to conclude, nothing with premeditation told you I had a shorter and lighter version, is that what it says in English. However, after such concessions by the president of repeated attacks, the president of the Croatian government in the Croatian Parliament according to the MPs to whom he corresponds, not the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am the man who prepares, then I had the other version. I was hoping I wouldn't have to use it, but I have a third version of it, and I'll leave it for another chance if it continues with this kind of behavior. What's going on with our Prime Minister is I'm really saying that right now I'm starting to get seriously worried even as a doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34227	New replica and respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34228	You've just confirmed with this last sentence what I wanted to tell you, you said you wouldn't insult me. Your "speak" was a festival of insult, of pride, insolence and pride, all the expressions with which you honored the prime minister. You're acting like a deity that came down with no and shared a lesson. In the name of who? On behalf of an amateur folk group that bears the name of a party? No, you're saying you're doing it for the people. So what people? What part of the people? How much? Croatian people? The Croatian people gave Zoran Milanovic and the coalition the support you can dream of and still has so much you can dream of. You know, in Dalmatia, a undertaker is called a picigamorto. You're a picigamorto looking for a dead man so he can't find him. You act like undertakers, no offense, but I'd say vultures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34229	Reply to the replica, respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34230	Anything that comes from you can't offend me right now to tell you, you can speak freely whatever you want. I'm the same as I was, telling the truth, and then when that truth hurts whoever it's referred to, that's his problem, not mine. It was funny and very happy to listen when I told that truth to individuals from the previous government, individuals. Now that I tell that to those individuals who deserve it from this authority by their behavior and by their actions, it's no longer funny to you, now it's an insult festival. My every word has its place, it's spoken in Croatian because I don't speak English to get stuck where I don't belong. But I am not only a vulture but what you have never been, nor will you be Mr. Jurjevic, a true national representative of the citizens who sent me here with their voice to the Croatian Parliament, and the party I belong to is proud of the folkal features of the area from which I come, too, is proud of our costumes. I'm sorry that in your heart and in your mind, there's no room for the costumes from where you come from, but only for the stars of the five-pointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34231	I'm counting to 10 because this really requires a calm relationship. We can continue to insult each other, we can discuss whatever you want, but I assure you that this is no help to the Croatian people or Croatian citizens. Is that to be heard every political thought... So if vultures and vultures are the same to be heard, and I am therefore not correcting, just please, in the name of reason, in the name of each individual's political responsibility to refrain from qualifications that only affect Croatian society and the Croatian people, whether they are black, whether they are red, whether they are like this or not, it will not bring bread into any home. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you nicely. Now a replica of respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34232	You say, sir, that I have offended you. True, everyone can cause trouble, but shame is what everyone is responsible for, so so do you. When you passed through here I tell you in English if you'd talk to me, and you throw something in Hungarian. So if with such knowledge and such confidence you criticized the progress of the government itself, then I can imagine what your knowledge stands for. It is true that everyone could say that something is wrong and that someone is wrong and that his knowledge is wrong and that his successes are not right, everyone can say that, but that something is commendable and noticeable, so you must have some knowledge. And then we go back and figure it out and you're talking about your truth before, you're the man who's always telling the truth, that's the famous sophism that if you went to high school you can remember now. And you know what, the truth is that in our society and that's the biggest problem that concerns not only you but all those who dare to tell the truth, and the prime minister's duty and the government's duty as a whole, and so are we to speak the truth. Today, when you're telling the truth in the least, you can go through with such an assessment that you don't have a home education which is a disaster, but we're not laughing and we're not getting tired of it. And another thing to do with Croatian. You yourself said you didn't know English but you should know Croatian so you said the well-being of yourself, and you should have said your well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34233	The reply to the replica and representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34234	Dear Madam MPs and colleagues, I told you I cannot be offended, but when it comes to language knowledge, I am proud to know the Croatian language and speak it perfectly normal and worthy of such speech here in the Croatian Parliament as opposed to English in the European Parliament. But it's not my fault that you're a person who loves each other, as our people say, to put where it doesn't belong, and you think you know everything, and I'm afraid it might be worth the saying to you, but I'm not sure now I'm starting to suspect that you might be in that category of people to whom the saying "it's better to be known in one area than the ignorant in ten".
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34235	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34236	It was never funny to me what you said to your HDZ colleagues before, because there are too many painful things and secrets that we don't know, but I wasn't having fun, these are too difficult topics to be fun. For these things you said here in the European Parliament, they would take your word, they wouldn't, perhaps better that way. But just keep it up, call people for crimes they're not responsible for, they're not even charged, I don't know if there's any investigation of what happened many years ago, which has nothing to do with this government, if it ever happened. I am now not going to the president of your association and his case because it is traumatic, which is supposed to traumatise Croatia. But you have two men in your benches who are legally and unlawfully convicted in front of Croatian courts for criminal acts of peconical nature, money. That's where they sit next to you, now they don't. One because he was stealing from the payhouses and then he had to get out of the SDP after that, and people come out because of some standards, we can sometimes get confused. And the second because he bribed the Supreme Court judges and admitted it. He's still a parliamentary representative, and you even proposed him as head of the board a year ago, and then you gave it up because I'm not going to convince the talks, I never do that. That's what you are, so not a laugh, but actually a nausea based on all of that and the nausea of me that I have to have a stomach-coated Kevlar against, an active armor I have to have in my stomach to do sometimes what I'm doing. You managed to start that stomach, that's it. So I have nothing more to say to you, just keep it up, make things up, say I insult other people. Well, I'm not doing anything here today, I'm reacting to the comments of my colleagues in the Parliament because we're colleagues, I've been elected to a Parliament that doesn't deal with the subject, they don't really deal with the subject. I mean, you can do some kind of discourses and interpret what's the subject and what's not the subject. This isn't the subject of today's debate, but we don't take as clearly as the Parliament for that word and that's it. But I am simply responding to what you want to reach the Croatian public. When you speak in the name of the Croatian people, which is the word and phrase that I boast with great uncertainty, that is, with great caution because I am never sure if I have the right to say it, you make it so easy to claim that it is a true mercy. For you to vote several percent of Croatian voters in the elections, that is the mandate with which you came to the Parliament. Calling on the Croatian people is not fair, it is not fair. You were not chosen by the Croatian people, you were elected by the voters, the voters chose you. And I too have been elected by voters, although without the votes of members of the Croatian people, I would not exist as a politician and as a prime minister, nor any of us. And the minorities chose us and the Serbs, the guests, whom you laugh so sweetly and the ones I said yesterday, and who is not here again as it was not even at the budget debate, at the debate on the budget, not at the vote on the budget, and he had such fun and so much fun and so sweetly smiled when they asked him to comment on the chauvinistic turnout that I couldn't draw any other conclusion but that the person, what you said, I said yesterday, and I won't repeat it because the word is a little harsh but not offensive. So it's not just a gesture and a face, it's content, content of contempt, a mockery of the fact that the parliamentary representative and candidate for the European Parliament on the common sister list, a round of sisters, has said such a terrible thing. So we didn't say that, that's what you said, that's what the people you politically support said, and I'll talk about it clearly, yes, and I'll threaten people with words because I have nothing else or threaten. So I'm going to warn you because we have a clear conscience, because I have no other instrument of influence because we're not networked the way you're networked, we're networked where we need to be, where it's politically legitimate and I can't function differently. I'm not calling, I'm not threatening, but I'm looking for results in both public and commercial advertising, and when it comes to various commercial advertising in public, all of us are doing this, and the results will come and I will never call on the Croatian people whose members I am, but Croatian citizens within whom both the Croatian people and the Serbian people and the Italians and Hungarians are, and that I don't go any further without being offended, there are plenty of them. That's us. And what you've shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34237	We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Shucker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. There is a strange fashion that has never been introduced into this House. Wait a minute, please! [[Intruder Stazic: First please, kindly.]] Well, wait a minute, man. You're nervous. [[Intruder Stazic: No, you can't just a little bit. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you must specify which article is injured by the Rules of Procedure.]] What are you nervous about? [[Intruder Stazic: I am not nervous at all.]] What are you nervous about? I will. [[Intruding Stazić: Will you present the breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure?]] So what are you nervous about, for God's sake? So why is my people so nervous? [[Intruding Stazic: Then please specify an article.]] What's wrong with you? Give me some langsam, cool off. I know you're in trouble, but what can I do for you? Therefore, Article 216 says that the president and other representatives are being demeaned or insulted. Mr. President of the Croatian Government has taken it as a right to insult the MPs who are not here. And otherwise, as far as staying in the Assembly is concerned, he is generally known as someone who was staying here and then all orthopedics in Croatia had problems because they had to treat the groin afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34239	Article 216 has not been broken or could have been broken. Article 216 says as follows: "Advocacy is given to a representative." He spoke to the Prime Minister. Read the Rules of Procedure, try to understand it, then apply it. We're continuing with the replicas now. First Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34240	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I'll remind you you've violated the Constitution knowingly or unconsciously. The Republic of Croatia, in its original foundations, does not say that it is not a voter state or Croatian citizens. The Republic of Croatia is a national state of the Croatian people and member states of national minorities. So much for that. You also insulted those voters who voted for my party when they sent us here to the Croatian Parliament because you said that we were not chosen by the Croatian people but by the voters. They are the Croatian people. When it comes to something you said, I agree with certain statements that have been made, I just have to say I've only corrected in one word the statement of the representative in question. She forgot to say "abolized." Everything else is true. However, in the end I will tell you, it seems that my discussion with the doctor's dictionary said little was anesthetizing your performance. And in the end, I must say, after repeated insults, I remembered those sayings about man and fraction. As a man as a fraction in the numerator is what a man is, in the denominator is what a man thinks he is, so by mathematical rule that the denominator is greater value fraction is smaller. With you it seems to me that the number is minimal, the denominator is maximum, and the value of the fraction is miserable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34241	Thank you. Time's up. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34242	Your Honor, my colleague Buric. If you'd spoken another 15 minutes in your speech, there would have been more sayings than there would have been in the Gorski venjec. Half the speeches are sayings, 90 percent of them are unauthorized, so I'd like to ask you to give a little bit of origin, etymology, or the history of these statements, because you're basically just talking in sayings. And there's one saying about it that I'm not going to say here right now. But you keep it up. The thing is, I can make a mistake and in future I can make mistakes in sayings, but I don't make them up unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34243	The Republic will now be presented by representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34244	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament this debate has indeed turned into a series of insults. Mr. Milanovic, you brought this up yourself, saying from high, bahato. You've found here's the strength to try again to defend what's indefensible. The insult you have spoken here not only to me but also to evicted Croatia, and now you want to defend it. See, there's a difference. I would never tell you if you didn't like Croatia. I'll tell you that you run Croatia badly. And what you could have said was say you want to apologize for it and she would have been accepted. Just as I was glad that my colleagues from the SDP were, and some members of the government personally called me after that insult of yours and apologized and said we didn't. And I accept that apology, of course. That's the difference. And that's what we have to show today, that we can argue with arguments, not like you're starting again today with insults on a personal level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34245	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34246	Well, it's fascinating how you've told Hannibal Lechter all this with calmness. None of this is true, but it doesn't get you too excited. No one has offended you or told you. There are stenograms in this house, that you are, that you do not love Croatia but I said, and I will repeat it again here and let everyone listen very carefully as a father of a child who was not born in Croatia. So it's a completely fictional subject, I didn't say that. And I know you well, both personally and professionally and very well, you know what I know. And the way we acted, the way I acted, and the way I acted without getting in, it's true people, but it's true there's no offense. I don't expect excuses... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34247	What are you nervous about, Shucker?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34248	So much is killing you that someone says what you even know is true, and you despise the truth. So, I said you don't understand Croatia. That's what I can tell the Croat who is or the Serb who was born here and lives his whole life. And as for the fact that I've been chosen by the Croatian people, the election is Mr. Buric's digression of secrets. I don't know who picked me, I don't count, I don't count, I don't send for analysis. I was chosen by the citizens. No matter what state we are of the Croatian people to whom I belong, like all my ancestors, and that's why I have no complex, I am calm with it before me, someone before God, completely calm. And I'm also going to ask you if you're going to give up the pay gap because you've put yourself in a fine position on the list, worked with the Prime Minister and received the foreign exchange salary she generously and probably well-meaned you as the only diplomat in the history of Croatian diplomacy that was in Brussels, and his family was in Zagreb receiving salaries in Euros. You and someone far more important than you are, and this is Vladimir Drobnjak, who was indeed the chief negotiator. That's fair? I'll tell you what it is, it's wrong. It's illegal and it's unethical. And the entire Department of Foreign Affairs knows that. And you've led your boss astray. And this second, it's not a problem. Don't act like a victim. I'm sorry, don't play the victim. [[Intruding Stazic: Prime Minister, time.]] Your problem is a different nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34249	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34250	Dear Mr. Vice President, in his famous performance, the Prime Minister today said he was a representative in the Parliament. Well, since you're so rigorously interpreting the Rules of Procedure, then we demand that when he gives insults to fellow MPs that you at least give him a warning. As for the working relationship of fellow Stier at a time when he was working, he was perfectly legal and transparent, unlike the engagement of your wife, who is now employed by you and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in one of our ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34251	Where's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34252	This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34253	Last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So when you're saying that you only have a threat to words that as a single weapon you're left with in response to chauvinistic turns out I'm wondering if all your gaffs, laps, improvisations, or really believing that Croatia had a civil war or maybe that's the political attitude of the SDP when you say that all those who are trying to answer you, correct you, warn you, are in your hysterical attack black shirts, losers, peasants or some other words, as you say today in this High House, you're saying that we probably don't know what you said. You call the appalled Croatian defenders black shirts. Isn't that a chauvinistic outburst and alluding to fascism? I ask you why there is really no such thing as what the Croatian Constitution says that this Homeland War was just, defensive, liberating? Why did you not read the conclusions of October 8 brought by the Croatian Parliament and then know that armed aggression has been declared by the Republic of Serbia and so on. JNA in the Republic of Croatia? Why are you comparing Finland with Croatia when and in this Finland was a civil war where 37,000 were dead? Why do you want everyone who answers you, who is horrified by your statements, who condemns or warns you of mistakes not to be welcomed in your world? Be realistic, apologize and say that I made a mistake and I made a mistake towards the Holy One, according to the Homeland War. [[Intruder Stazic: Time, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34255	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34256	Wait, you want me to confess? So speak as a priest; you are not worthy of it. Because you see it as an insult. ... Gentlemen, listen, I always come in here with a deep firm attitude, but we're people, we're hesitant, that I won't react to these outbursts, but I always react. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You can do an analysis of who used those terms, especially these other two as you said they were people of peasants and that's what you're saying, that's your dictionary, I never used it for anyone. One other word I did, black shirts. Let him change his shirts. Because a black shirt for me, especially when it's together in a battle kit with ideology has a certain meaning. And it's not the same when I wear it and someone else wears it, and Shime Lucin wears it. And you know very well what I've alluded to and I have a problem with that. I have a problem and I'm going to say it openly, and you're manipulating it unfairly. And as for the civil war, I see that you have become an expert in civil war, too, for the battle of... For Gustav Mainerheim, we can talk about it but nobody here cares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I tell all those who tell me that Croatia had a civil war I say is wrong. All those who tell me but watch 250, 300 thousand Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality rebelled against the Croatian state in Croatian territory and it lasted 4.5 years. I'm telling them again they're wrong. I tell them again they're wrong because it's simply not my belief. When they tell me that if we deny that it's civil work, and I say who rebelled in Croatian territory, then if it isn't, it's our citizens. I'm still saying it's not a civil war, although there's no longer any danger of free talking about some issues, and that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34257	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34258	So, freedom of thought, liberal thoughts, expressions that terrifies you, you're not getting along, you're just a dogme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34259	Thank you. Now, I owe my colleague Stier an apology because I misunderstood his gesture, applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I was convinced that he had left this injury to a colleague named Mlakar, who also appeared, so with one delay here, I call on my colleague Stier to carry out the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the violation of Article 216 and the explanation that indeed Mr Milanovic deserved to receive a warning. He brought forth a series of lies and insults. Which means, I know something about you, I know everything about you, what you have some secret fail from some service, which is what it is, what a way of communicating. Is this a question about my service at the Foreign Ministry, so you once ordered it while you were in opposition from a fellow SDP to ask a question. He got absolutely complete information and then when he studied and saw that all the legal man had the dignity to report to me and said I was sorry that I asked that question at all, everything was fine. Isn't that an example you and Mr. Prime Minister should follow, so don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34261	Time. Comrade Stier, there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure; there is nothing offensive in the sentence: "I know all about you." There's nothing, there's nothing offensive, but look, you can't insult a man in replicas and not let him answer those lines, it's just not fair. In this, in this... Comrade Stier, my colleague Stier, just a little bit to give you an explanation, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should now address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system if you do not have the right to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure at this session, do you understand? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, okay. We continue to discuss clubs, and I invite my colleague Damir Cain to speak on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34262	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So if someone knows Mr. Dark Lorencin, then they clearly know him from IDS, so do I. And I'll start by saying, exactly, I'll support Mr. Lorencin, I'll support Mr. Lorencin. Why is Mr. Lorenzo a good choice? We've known each other a long time. We were in the same party. Mr. Lorencin is a good choice among other things because he's not from the hotel sector, because he doesn't come here to Parliament from these big companies. Yeah, that's exactly what he's doing because he's not coming from these big companies, and I think he's a good choice. Why? Because he doesn't owe anyone anything. The big hotel sector, whether we want to admit it or not, as I follow it is an interesting group of parexelans. You all know how privatisation happened in this hotel sector or in tourism. So first the credits of the business banks were revolving, and then the privatisations came, and then the pifs came, and so on. And now that I don't list all those Istrian firms who just went through that "transition." So the choice of someone who is not in this sector, I think Croatia is better and I dare say a fairer choice. Why? I'll do it again another time, because Mr. Lorencin didn't owe anyone, he wasn't on their salary, he wasn't getting bonuses from that tourist sector. What some have said on the left is true, for example, this government has done a great deal for tourism. reduced VAT, and exactly Mr. Schucker as finance minister if I am not mistaken in 2006 to organised arrivals also reduced VAT from then 22 to 10%. However, no matter what, the same thing should be kept in mind, the income from tourism in 2012, was, we're all talking in the best possible tourist season since the ages here. It was 600m euros less than in 2008, 7.8% lower income in 2012 than in 2008, according to the Croatian National Bank. Or in 2008, tourism revenue was 7.4 billion kuna, 2011. 6.6 billion kuna, 2012. 6.8 billion kuna. In 2012, about 200 million euros of income was achieved by Istria than in 2008 and perhaps the best we can see, I would say the gravity of the crisis in which this country is in and so much do not envy either the Prime Minister or this Government visa you are dealing with. That's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, what does this tourism mean in 2012? We cut that VAT to 10%. I said before, it was the first time Mr. Shucker had reduced it. As a rule, VAT reduces finance ministers, all tourism ministers clearly advocate the principle. That's about 500 million less in the state budget. I'll say this for the Assembly speaker that I wouldn't do it, I agree the VAT on tourism should be as it is in our environment, but why wouldn't I do it, if anyone put down the price of coffee in our restaurants, it's not. Did he lower the price of marendi not, lunch isn't, dinner isn't. Therefore, it might be far better if VAT had come down to food for those most needed, not for food in restaurants, perhaps for wood growers, for textiles but for good. The smaller VAT certainly needs to be welcomed. Privatisation, as Mr. Darko Lorecin spoke of in some of his latest interviews, Živogosce, Kupari etc. that Brijuni Riviera the way it's set up, no. That should be defined. The state owns it if I don't cheat two-thirds of the system or the company local self-government one-third. Since 2003 or 2004, several tens of millions of kuna have been sucked to this day. That's enough of that. I think a pensioner's home is less necessary than, say, a set-up company. The drug fight centre has the biggest problem in Istria, too, is more necessary than that. So we suggest that this warm engine be abolished for employees number one, so I will call it and join them with the suits nice for tourism. Four new hotels were built in Istria at 23 years from 90th to today. Two hotels were built by Adris in Rovinj, two were built in Umag or in the area of the former Bujština. By 1990 72 hotels were built in Istria County. What was done by the 1990s, among other things, and in tourism, I dare say it was simply epochal. I agree, we know what the system was. There were exceptions, there were denials, there were national expressions, but that's also some period when the country was industrialized, I don't know when some 400,000 apartments were built, when a hotel base was set. During this period until 90th in the space of the then SFR of Croatia, today Croatia still built between 250 and 300 hotels. Since the '90s on here if 20 is a lot I've actually said. Absolutely for investment and foreigners but the first to invest, they must simply invest domestic hotelers. 700 million kunas achieved by the 9th month to gain meanings, in the taxation of the Istrian company, in 2012 no new hotel was built in Istria, in 2013, no new hotel will be built, in 2014. Maybe we'll see if he'll be there in 2015. It means Croatia, it is today Istria. If that's the case in Istria, I'm afraid it's different, there's nothing different about it anywhere else. Maybe even harder. And that is why I invite these hotels in Istria to invest simply invest. Tourist land has been solved, yet not until the end. We don't have those decisions to finally start paying that price per square as for example for renting a business space pays there on some public surface of every trader, every caterer, every camper, and so on. Revitalization of the interior of Istria, you know who to thank. We should thank this system of small municipalities that formed or that happened to us there in 93 C.E. because suddenly thousands of people began to simply take care of their environments. Not an individual, but a small community. It is another thing whether we should allow under quotes the leaders of up to a thousand inhabitants to be professionally represented but I am convinced that this would not be so that today and internal Istria would appear significantly different. I'm convinced Mr. Darko Lorencin is a good choice. Among other things, you know why from what the Prime Minister has shown and you may be following our political performances in Istria. So the prime minister has shown he has nothing against IDS, and where are you against Istria and now you Istrian public will say that this year Istria or Istria is investing somewhere around 2 billion kunas of public government money. Let's just say that I call it budgetary, out of budget more than it was invested in 2011, 2010, 2009, or some earlier years. It's an ipsylon, it's a guarantee for a moving hospital, it's campuses, it's 520 million for water roads. Of these 520 million kunas, 500 million kunas go where the mayors of the IDS ranks, 20 million where the mayors of SDP, Vrbani, Umag, 300 million kunas are now going for these ships, ferry to Uljanik, a general hospital with some 250 million kunas has been renovated and therefore I call on my former colleagues a lot of these separatist wars with political Zagreb. All in all, no one around me has anything against Mr. Lorencin's choice. Some have, not me personally, I don't even know a man. I don't care who it is, I don't know the man. These others have certain reserves, probably due to Brijuni Riviera and that and the relationship that took place on that relationship with some mayors or mayors. I want the Minister clear every good thing. I'd like it to work. Certainly, this year's foreign exchange income from tourism and the number of overnight stays will be about 3.4% more than it was last year, but we still won't reach the 2008 foreign exchange inflow. The stories of the tourism strategy, about 20,000 beds by 2020, in Istria should drop 7,000 beds, which is 50 hotels. I think it's at least an exaggeration. He told the minister by the 90th we built 72 hotels, so I could see who would build 50 hotels by 2020. We need to help the minister. I think it is the interest of anyone who sits in this Parliament that the Government, resolute ministers, be clearly successful. There will be work to be done, it should also review these foreign representations, this land rent should be redefined, the tourism sector should finally start paying for it, it will have to deal with this big and tourism one powerful sector behind which banks stand, the capital of which converted primarily by the PIFs, there is the stock market, there are the media, there are expensive paid PR agencies. Tourism in Istria is an extremely important branch, after industry, after services, it means immediately the third branch of its income and it will be in the future as it is now treated, I say as a little water on the palm of the hand. It will have a maximum advantage, but I also invite hotelers in Istria, give gentlemen an investment, don't make a profit trip to Austria, Liechtenstein or I don't know Cile depending on where those who participated in the conversion came to Istria. Help, don't help the authorities, don't help the local community, help the citizens of which you've received everything and give it to you at this difficult time, leave the grand in Istria, or Croatia, Dalmatia, in Kvarner or elsewhere, and we will all be of maximum help to you. And lastly, for the third time, I will support it clearly, and personally, because I care about it very much, for a long time we know each other, Darko Lorencin, Mr. Lorencin, and I will join those congratulations on St. Joseph.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34263	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you are, colleague Caine, saying that the proposed election of Dark Lorencin as Minister of Tourism is good, by argument, why it's good because it doesn't come from the hotel sector. Argumentum ancortario, the former minister of the past coming from the hotel sector, was bad for the reason it came from the hotel sector. I don't remember hearing you talk about it when it was a proposal to elect the former minister, I don't remember you voting against it. You said Darko Lorencin was a good choice because he didn't get any bonus from the hotel sector, so he doesn't owe anyone. It is true, we read in the paper that the former minister received a bonus of 800,000 kuna from the hotel sector, which means that all the time he was in the position of the minister of the sector he owed something. I didn't hear you talk about it. And now it may be clear why and throughout the term of office of the former minister, and the government of Prime Minister Milanovic has not implemented the Act on Tourism Land, which is in force, which is to be implemented and this year, hoteliers and camps will use free of charge the most valuable land in the Republic of Croatia. And to the extent that no one cares that the income for the state of Croatia is collected in this financial situation and in this constitution. And you end up saying that the choice is good, and you don't mind at all that the choice is a member of a party that you say is being run as a mob organization, and you don't mind that the proposed minister commended him himself for being politically responsible and for being on a very high political duty exactly in that organization that you say is being run as a mob organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34265	The replica will be answered by counterpart Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34266	As Silicia and Calabria respected colleagues, I never said, it was true and I voted for the former Minister of Tourism, and especially I did not say that Mr Ostojić was bad, that he was a bad choice and I am sure that if anyone knew the opportunities in this tourism then Mr Ostojić was. But I am sure that Mr. Lorencin will be far more free in defining relations, even when it comes to the Law on Tourist Land than Mr. Ostojić. And that's why I welcome that choice of someone who comes out of the tourist dam with my heart and soul if something in the meantime doesn't deny me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34267	Second replica, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain, I'm really surprised at your performance. Namely, your departure from the IDS has been marked by a famous statement: "That Istria has been ruled by the mafia for more than 20 years." If it is known that, and it is true that Istria has been ruled by the IDS for 20 years, and that Darko Lorencin, whom I personally have nothing against, is that I am sorry that this debate has been going in this direction as we confirm the choice of Mr. Lorencin, Minister of Tourism. But if we know that he was part of that Istrian IDS, then it seems to me that such a statement is in contradiction with the confirmation of the gentleman, with supporting Mr. Lorencin. And the other thing, you also said that by proposing Mr. Lorenzo's prime minister made it clear that there was nothing against IDS. If there's nothing against IDS how you interpret that as supporting you, your mayoral candidacy when you call yourself IDS a mob organization and that's one of your mottos, your motto for this local election. If I were you, you'd be silent today and handing this debate over to someone else on the independent list to talk about support for Mr. Darka Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34269	My colleague Cain, you have now reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you called too late when the speaker finished. [[Intruder: Replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34270	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's very short for me not to remain in debt to Mr. Bacic. [[Come on, answer me.]] Don't be surprised. Listen to what I'm saying. Maybe that'll help the HDZ in Istria. Perhaps the HDZ in Istria is the only one worse than some I mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34271	Now the position of the HDZ club will be brought closer to us by a respected colleague, Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I will express my regret that today's debate in the presence of the Prime Minister has turned into a painful, difficult debate in which again, since the first man of the executive government in Croatia, we hear insults or statements at the border of insults. Again comes the Prime Minister, whom this Parliament has chosen to teach its representatives, to dictate, to moralize them. And I will try to show through my debate that you are not consistent and that you have no right to speak in the way you speak. It has been 15 months since this government's vote of confidence here in the Croatian Parliament. What can we say about these first 15 months? That Croatia has made progress? Croatia has not progressed, unfortunately Croatia has backward. Public space is dominated today by ideological calculations, instead of constructive discussions on how to fix the situation in the Croatian economy. Social and political conflicts are tightening, rather than looking together for solutions to get out of the crisis. The gentleman's situation is extremely bad, never worse, and there's no monitoring of the light at the end of the tunnel. The government of dear colleagues obviously has no vision of no strategy, no program to get the Republic of Croatia out of the crisis and how to protect the standard of living of our citizens. Even one of the coalition partners of the IDS president Mr. Jakovcic from whose ranks comes today's candidate for minister said Plan 21 is dead. So after 15 months, we can conclude that pessimism and anxiety really took hold and that they got involved in Croatian society. And statistics are ruthlessly respected colleagues and colleagues. GDP fell 2% in 2012 although the government announced at the beginning of the year that it would rise by 0.8%. Today we have 375 thousand unemployed, 70,000 more than at the beginning of this government's mandate, we have an inflation of almost 5%, there is no investment. And I'm going to say something that we still have to come to terms with, given that today we're going to decide on the Minister of Tourism's trust. Mr. Lorencin was an assistant minister who was in charge of exactly investment, for the creation of a favourable investment and entrepreneurial atmosphere in the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the areas that has absolutely failed. This is not just us from HDZ that is a general assessment, evaluation and those who would like to invest in Croatia. The credit rating has been downgraded to the waste level, energy prices in the first row of gas and electricity, VAT increased, all leading to a significant collapse of our citizens' standard of living. There's no sign of recovery that's what's worst, but it's going with the budget rebalance. We expect him very soon and here in Parliament. The growth assessment for 2013 was 1.8%, and now it's already being said that this year it's going to be an economic downturn. They are announced and are already being implemented and this week we have a decision to cut wages in the state and public sector. In particular, information on the economic developments of the CNB for 2013 speaks about the emergence of the crisis and does not indicate recovery. It seems to me that under such circumstances, in the absence of economic results, authorities are increasingly resorting to ideological conflicts and political struggles, unfortunately, moving to the field of ideology rather than to the debate on the development of the country. We are paradoxically entering the EU and social tensions are growing. The government and the prime minister are constantly teaching us, waiting for us, moralizing everything and everything, doing everything but what we should do, and that's finding a solution to getting out of the crisis. Therefore, there are no more and more serious demands for the reconstruction of the government, and there are more and more demands for early elections. Indeed, if nothing happens by summer if, even after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, visible shifts of the HDZ will also be advocated for early elections. My colleagues and colleagues in the last 15 months, this is the fourth time we've voted on the trust of a new minister, and that also speaks of the quality and stability of this government. I'll remind you the first one he had to leave was Minister Komadina. Officially, he left for health reasons, but from sources close to the tops of the SDP he wrote then in the press he went for failure to find, incompetence, because the prime minister did not love him. Minister Holly was second. She left because of an inappropriate e-mail she requested or suggested not to fire one person close to SDP at times when all others in HH were fired without arguments and mercy. Then we heard that the bar was raised very high and it was then okay. But these days we are witnessing e-mails that are circulating from the centre of the HNS which are much more dangerous with their content, which go much wider, which Croatia is returning I don't know how many years back. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is very nice of you Vice-President of the Parliament, you show how much you hold to the Croatian Parliament, how much you respect MPs, you throw behind your back. This is unprecedented in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34273	Go ahead. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34274	It's really below every level, but I'll keep going. Mr. Stazic, famous for his cheap vacations, which I guess he was rewarded with the position of Vice President of the Parliament for the first time, I guess, in the history of this House, he throws MPs behind his back so hard, just to be easily heard. But it doesn't matter, I'm going on with the third one who has to leave Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic. He shouldn't have come, we all said that, it's a European standard that someone it was in such a kind of judicial process that was ultimately sentenced to prison punishment, he shouldn't have even been Vice-President of the Government, and here today we're watching him hand over the list to the European Parliament and he's calling for European standards. Indeed, it is what the Kukurik coalition offers Croatian citizens. And here goes Minister Ostojic, leaving due to suspicion of abuse of position and possible political corruption. What we're going to say is, we're going to see what's true of all of this, but the man has retired, he's shown perhaps more morals than some SDPs of conceited, preconductive people who impose their rules, who point out their rules as the only right one, but in practice it's something else entirely. That's why we could debate today, perhaps some of the other ministers, but it's likely that their turn will come. Why do I mention all four cases, why don't I just mention Minister Ostojić? Because all four cases show between the other cases and the affairs that are happening to us almost daily, that this government is neither fair nor moral in the way that Prime Minister Milanovic would like to show it. He has a daily moralization, teaches us political culture and democracy, and he doesn't see or wants to see that he falls gold from the image he wanted to build, that he falls gold from the image of unsumpted, honest, moral people who got power just by criticising such phenomena that were happening, and we don't run away from it. Unfortunately, our prime minister doesn't see that people, that this government isn't different and different, it's not capable, it's a notorious thing, but it's neither fairer, it's neither morale nor immune to abuses of political positions, party staffing and the like. And with that finding, we come to today's event, to vote the trust of the new Minister of Tourism, Mr. Darko Lorencin. HDZ won't support his choice, not because of him personally, we don't have enough information about him, we don't know him well enough. But we will not support him because of everything that preceded his election, because of the politically abnormal behaviour of SDP and IDS leaders who are publicly offended, they are politically devoured, they are leading the battle to extinction in Istria, and here they choose the same minister. And I can't believe it. I'm listening to it like it's Mr. Cain's I.D.S. presentations, that there's no newspaper, that there's no television, we'd say there's really no problem. But all those who have been following politics in the last 23 years here in Croatia have hardly seen more political shifts and inconsistencies than this ministerial election and the behaviour of SDP and IDS. No more joint programs, as Mr. Jakovcic says, Plan 21 is dead, no more common values and projects. There is only a desire to defend political positions and political chairs, and I will support it with quotes. I'm sorry there's no fellow Caine here who says I've been a little criminal for 20 years, but I never really belonged to that criminal organization. Let him just stop insulting us once, he's the one who literally leads the IDS as a mob because there's everything there is, from the white one to the fact that Jakovcic took over public money from the media, to control the state administration, that everything is networked, listen to this, from the police to the judiciary and so on. Istram is managed like once by Calabria and Sicily. What does Jakovci say about that? There have always been mixing with land on the Croatian coast, some others such as Zufiæ or Kajin, he said, adding that anyone who has sinned must answer, and the investigation will show who is guilty and who is not. And something else Mr. Jakovcic said, through the SDP pigeons of the listbearers, I received immoral offers to come to their list of European Union parliaments. That's how they wanted to calm me down, but I can't trade with Ivan Jakovcic, what kind of man I would be. And then he says, so the SDP supported Caine as mayoral candidate while he was still vice president of the IDS. For a big party like SDP, listen to the SDPs now, it's a low blow but also immoral behavior. A party that keeps to itself and is considered honest must not do so. So the two coalition parties of dear colleagues and colleagues are publicly named for mafia, immorality, dishonesty, even cocaine, judicial abuse, police, state apparatus, land-mixing, but still stay together. Our candidate for the Minister as we hear it will also be on the list of Mr Ivan Jakovcic for the European Parliament. Well, that seems like some kind of joke, but it's not a joke. That's why Mr. Lorencin has the impression that you're not being treated rightly and humanly. The impression is that Mr. Milanović and Mr. Jakovcic are hitting on you like you're some sort of thing. They wage their own personal and party wars through you. And for you too, colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, your candidate for the Istrian mayor, Mr. Cain, has accused Ivan Jakovcic and IDS of being a mob. Lorencin comes from the IDS, from that organization. Are you really going to support someone your mayoral candidate claims is coming from a mob organization? If you want how you're better, fairer, more moral and different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34275	We have three replicas on this exhibit. After the replica of the Prime Minister. Replications first. First honorary colleague, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34276	Dear Vice President, I have to report to you even though I've been doing a lot of replicating since I've been mentioned in my sentence in the presentation of Mr. Jandrokovic about unpreparedness or incompetence during the ministerial term, so I would just draw attention to the fact that in three months of some work you can hardly judge anyone capable or incompetent. That's the first one. And as for preparedness, I have to tell you why, among other things, are we today and our government in this situation? That's why colleagues and colleagues, which is why the continuity of the project was not at all. In fact, you haven't prepared almost anything that could continue to be realized in continuity. Let me remind you how you came across when you came across in 2003, or 2004. There was an investment cycle under way in road construction started by the government of Ivica Racan and actually under the operational leadership of Mr. Cacic. And that cycle and that training of public enterprises continued through your mandate, that is, two mandates, but it also led to the fact that you went so far as to do so without economic resistances that I would not again be quoted by those others who say whether or not they needed roads. Of course, roads are needed, but this is so much of a debt that no more companies could handle it from workers. And what's different today is some speeches that are candidates on some of the lists of technomangers that this government is whether unprepared complete, etc., that they don't have projects. But there's one thing you need to know. Projects are done in institutions. There are no projects in the living room. You have to have property-legal preparation, project documentation, building permit, security funds, and then run the project. Therefore, those who think that projects can be realized within the day of time, or run, are simply in error.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34277	Time. The replica matches a colleague, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Komadina, I personally appreciate you winning the mayor's election more than once. I didn't see any reason to move you out of the minister's position, but I just said what I read. I wasn't talking about SDP and the area of the prime minister courting him and talking about you uglyly. It came from your mouth. So today I quote only what you were saying as I quoted what Mr. Cain was saying by trying to avoid being accused of me as it is today during this whole debate accusing you of telling the truth, that you're not saying that someone else meant it. I was just quoting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34279	Second replica and colleague Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34280	Well, while you were such a fan of the statement, you could also quote your president who, after a long time after 20 years, began using a difficult political dictionary that reminded him of the times when he was from word to word, to say, the introduction to violence was only a pedal. You said that publicly, yes, yes, you're surprised. You said public space is unfortunately ruled by ideological conflicts. In the middle of Split, your president began by calling us a red peronospora. It is known what in Dalmatia means to call someone peronospora. I could only answer that if that's what we are, then you're a black plague. Excuse me, but his vocabulary is the introduction to ideological conflicts, and then you attack us to stimulate that kind of conflict. You're saying that this is neither fair nor moral, and you're now on behalf of a party against which I guess only in the world, I don't know another case filed in Croatian courts as legal, against a legal person on heavy charges of abuse of state money. After all, we now listen to the explanation of your political programme at Croatian courts every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34281	The replica corresponds to the respected Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34282	I see it's funny to you, Mr. Vice President, coming from such a world, and that's perfectly fine and correct. Mr. Jurevic, about ideological resistance, I find it difficult to pollute with you, and I will avoid it. And as for who at this point is responsible for discussing ideologies, and to whom it is appropriate to discuss the economy, we can have a new debate. It would be very nice for the Parliament to conduct a debate on the situation in the Croatian economy, on what has been happening in the last 15 months. It's not HDZ who wants ideological battles, it's not HDZ that's running away from economic issues. You're you! You imposed a debate on sexual education by imposing violently into the school program, and then for a few weeks there was a complete shadow of what was going on with our people who were left out of work, with a drop in GDP, with a lack of investment. Again now in a very aggressive way you impose these ideological topics, you go back to the past, you talk about black shirts. Well, black shirts are paramilitary fascist formations. And that comes unfortunately from the mouth of our prime minister who should calm his passions, not raise them. So, we're not the ones who want to deepen ideological division, we want to talk clearly about the time of '45. '90s. Which you're obviously avoiding. But our key topics are about the economy, with the development of Croatia, along with the EU, and we wanted to Polish about the EU and the European Parliament not through how much money anyone will have, who belongs to what ideology. We wanted to show people who are on our list, and they're much, much more quality than yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34283	Third and last replica and esteemed colleague Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning, counterpart Jandrokovic said that instead of ideological discussions, we should discuss solutions together and discuss the country's development. I agree with that, of course. Afterwards, counterpart Jandrokovic talked about parties, about their mutual relations, about their internal difficulties, talked about e-mails that some parties are sending by suggesting some employment. His party can say a lot about it. Buljubashi and Buljubashi marked their conduct. He was talking about people who aren't here, he insulted a young colleague who would be a minister saying they'd run over him like a few things. But not a word, counterpart Jandrokovic, said about tourism. And this was an opportunity. He spoke on behalf of the club so it was an opportunity to demonstrate this willingness to seek common solutions this time in tourism. What does that really mean? It means that his call for a joint debate on the important issues of this country was not sincere and if we are to move forward that such a debate since he spoke on behalf of the club, a joint search for a solution to the country's development with HDZ is not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34285	The Prime Minister has now come to the floor. ... So you didn't answer the question, did you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How will I give you my word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34286	So this was a completely legitimate political speech, if I may give you a hand. I can't? Okay. Please don't get me creamworth. [[/Intruding Stazic: My colleague, please don't, you can't throw. Prime Minister, just a little bit, please, let's wake up.]] If I may? ... [[Come on, come on. /]] So, okay, then I'm just a little bit of a colluding what I've come to realize, so I'm not telling you, that this was completely within the framework of a political discourse. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not doing it, I'm establishing it. And all right, everyone will recognize themselves, everyone will find something for themselves in that. You were here a ceremonial maester press clipping. You read us a hundred quotes, half of unconfirmed sources. If that's relevant to you, oh, so who told whom, who cursed whom, who insulted whom, and it's a political discourse why not? Everyone has their tastes and needs. You said our parties were imposing this shameful nationalist noise. Marin, a colleague, Marin Jurjevic, made it clear to you without any possibility to prove anything the opposite of who started it, and now it's all very funny to him, it's awful fun. Then you said you wanted to discuss the events of '45. and '90. but to avoid it. Then what's the truth in the end? One or the other? So, you want to discuss ideological issues, but we're running away from it. You're accusing us of cooking them up before us. So, you need to concentrate a little bit, just a little bit. When you object to the Vice President to throw you, which he apparently did with one sentence, he did not underestimate you, so he said eight years ago if I wasn't wrong, then it's wrong. But that's what you and your colleague Shucker are doing, and you keep talking to people, and you keep getting into the word, and you've been doing it ever since I've remembered this Parliament that's not right. It's not right for you to say that. When you who entered politics as the pertination of the former party president and you know what the pertination is in legal speech... Pertinence is, let's say, a key that doesn't make sense without a lock, that's it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So it is more important in Croatian to say than to explain what it is. Well, we'll come to your statements. So, as the pertinence of a man who is now seriously accused, he's already got some convictions, though ineligible and I always take it into consideration and respect and I have everything, not everything, but about things like that my opinion, but for now I can't and can't talk about it, but when someone enters politics as a pertinence of such a political person and doesn't see or understand anything that we yelled about 5, 6 years ago, and now we're silent because we think it's only decent, then he has serious credibility issues. When someone complains to Darka Lorencino that in 12 months he has done nothing to improve the competitiveness which is like a very bad and strategic-investigation climate, then he says and implies, namely Croatia's Mr. Mlakar is predominant that he inherited a terrible investment climate. Well, it didn't collapse in 1.1.2012, did it? So he inherited the tunnel. He's trying to get out of that tunnel. Well, you can't accuse a man of something you put him in. When you talk about us having no visions. We have a vision but you pushed us into the tunnel. In one sentence you talk about vision but we found ourselves in a tunnel and at the end of the tunnel you only have lights and you have to dig like a miner to get to that light because you closed Croatia's eyes and you took a vision. When you say it's falling gold, it falls gold and remains stainless steel. It's content. What's left is what's left. So let's be honest with ourselves as much as we can be. Don't look for another thorn in the eye or the grass in the eye, not to see the ball on your eye, and now you, Mr. Honorable colleague Mlakar, have said something I've heard and it's very important because I've got a stenogram. So you ended up one of your replicas by finding out about the working relationship of fellow Stier at the time he worked. In fact, he was perfectly legal and transparent. I've made it clear in detail what was immoral and wrong, I'll do it a hundred times because I'm a diplomat who's worked there for 12 years and you won't sell me fog. Unlike your wife's engagement, it was my wife's, and I overheard them warning me that you said that which one of you is employed now that you're the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in one of our ministries. Those are your words from the stenogram. I call upon the press to surround the gentleman, of course figuratively Mr. Mlakar, and ask him to explain this as I explained what I thought to Mr. Stier, which I know is a fact because this is purely a welling. This sucks. If you have character, you'll explain this. What did you mean by that my wife is a doctor, a doctor of science, who does her job, who has a lot of quotes in international magazines that call for conferences, who teaches at medical school, and that as an assistant. So she hasn't progressed, regardless of the formal conditions she's had and who's been working at the Bureau for 11 years. What ministry is she doing it in? Who's paying for it and how much? I'll tell you what I know. No one who works in the working groups has explicitly taken care of the fact that in these working groups nobody is given a penny, although it has been known that people are very luxuriantly honored to do what work is, projects, programs, etc., etc. So that's what I know to be true, and you're going to explain to me what's real truth. Because you see what we're different about. So when I speak, I speak specifically. I think I know what I'm saying. It doesn't have to be all absolutely true. But I know what I'm saying to me is a fact and I'm concrete and it's not an insult. Like my colleague Jandrokovic's appearance, I don't find him an insult, I find him very bad but not an insult. That's not offensive. So what you're saying is extremely political and human and simple insinuation is small so I don't use any other word now. So you're accusing us of stealing on what. Go to the press, tell them, give me the papers to see if it's true. And you see in that we are so different that I can tell you when you mention SDP. The SDP is for you when it comes to the world of convergence for the science of faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34287	We have five replicas reported to this exhibit. The first one will be carried out by counterpart Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, with this final finding of our prime minister, we're actually coming up with that key problem. He's just subjective. He doesn't see or know what's happening around him. Next he's focused on himself, he's personal. Well, he says I wasn't offended. My speech wasn't an insult. My speech was political talk, sharp and hard, but he insults. He puts it all down to a personal level, so he calls me a pentinity. Mr. Milanovic and you are the same man's partyence because you entered the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through him. The pertination of the Croatian would be a member. You will end up being a waste, because you act the way you act because you do not tolerate a civilized political debate but you bring it all down to a personal level. I didn't insult you. Not even Mr. Lorenzo's thesis that you're hitting on him, and I'm not offended by the balls. I wasn't talking about him. I was talking about what's going on. I quoted Evening paper and Sunday at 2 p.m. you probably read the newspaper and watch TV because you are addicted to your perception in the media, even dealing with the Spickini, English professors who think you speak not well enough English. It's hard to take it if your backs aren't strong enough to take it, but when you came to the prime minister's post. Then you should have known what you'd have to deal with. This job is tough. This job is challenging. This job is unfair to whoever's doing it, but whoever wants it has to know what they're dealing with. And don't insult people. Don't insult people, you keep doing it, you're at war with everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34289	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34290	So you should be in the interest of me warring enough with everyone. Instead, you're dealing with Istria. Well, that's where the HDZ is looking for CSI in the forensic trails with the little spatulas and they can't find anything. So you're doing us a favor, so that's what you do. I don't think that's fair. You know I am independent but I'm biased, so subjective. I have attitudes. So someone when they say that they are independent and impartial I am independent or dependent on their voters, on the will of the people, on the people, on the citizens, but I am biased, I have my views and I am argumentating them and you are going to Špickovina and Vukovina where the SDP received 50% of the votes and where we will have a report convention. I didn't happen to say that, so it's not an accident. Well, these people know we respect them. Someone else appreciates them when they sign history experts like that. But let us remain on it, so do not engage in English. I am in the ministry, Mr. Representative, colleague Jandrokovic, employed in '93 at the recommendation of his professors and exclusively his professors at the Department of International Law Budislav Vukas, Bozidar Bakotic and Nina Vajac, these are the top names of our rights. I had nothing to do with Eve Sanader's policy except have to go through it like you did a year later, a commissary conversation about a 15-minute ministry. After that, I saw a man twice. He didn't take me around. That's the huge difference. I'm a graduate student for which I received the rector's award, so as an ordinary student, I wrote in English and defended the case before the International Court of Justice in the 1990s. And I keep learning, and they judge me better than I do. And you take out your file at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs your English test when you were admitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and let's see how you solved it and how your level of knowledge was and who hired you at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what links you entered For so help me God, teachers of you, and now in misery and despair, seek the correction of an incorrect quote, and I [[Intruder: Time.]] I just said look, I don't have the right to see it. [[Intruder: Time.]] But when you say I'm personal [[Intruder: Prime Minister's time.]] See that I speak the fresh truth, the fresh raw truth. [[Intruder: Prime Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34291	Injury of my colleague Jandroković's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34292	So look, Mr. Vice President, Article 216 has been re-injured, allowing the Prime Minister to insult the MPs, to threaten. So he obviously has access to documents, he can take them as they are, he can change them as you do with intelligence stuff, it's very well known. But I repeat, and I've been educated just like you, graduated from two colleges, went to the Diplomatic Academy, completed courses abroad, was the minister who finished the negotiations, but what it looks like we're boasting here now. You impose that personal approach, you think you're better than everyone else, and you're not. Your results and what I've been reading are inexorable, they define you as a failed prime minister. You can perform whatever verbal acrobatic you want, but the figures are the ones that will eventually judge you. And be assured that you are modest because you do not know what awaits you tomorrow when you end this term You're not looking for any new enemies. [[Intruder: colleague.]] You're too vulnerable, you're weak. [[Employer: A colleague of Jandroković.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34293	First time's up, and now secondly, now I have to give you an explanation. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken, you have spoken offensively, you have received a reply to the replica. If you do not want to hear the reply to the replica and do not replicate it it is much simpler for you, not to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure there where it is not. You can now contact the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, if you do not do so and if you do not announce it now and do not do so within 24 hours, you cannot stress the breach of the Rules of Procedure at this session. Why? Because you're being abused now. Do you understand this instruction, do you accept it? No, you can only announce. ... He has the right to respond to a replica. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me run the session. If you think I've made a mistake in applying the Rules of Procedure, please contact the Constitutional Committee, but we can't throw ourselves here in this way. You're making a mess, and unnecessaryly unnecessary. So I gave you instructions on what to do and explain what would happen if you didn't. Now we're going to a second replica that my colleague Dinko Buric applied for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34294	Thank you. If you know each other in the morning, Mr. Future Minister, because we know that you will be elected will not be well in your ministry, but as it is in the government, so will you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, and I don't really know what it takes for you to confirm yourself so many times the obvious high level of nervousness that governs you, but this time not only the anxiety but also that haughtiness. You don't need that. You've turned one point, you've turned this point of daily work that's supposed to be a routine confirmation. We would vote against, most will vote yes, and you keep insisting on insulting here and at conflicts. But here's the line I was looking for for for something else, and I wanted to give you this message, but now you want to accept it or not, your thing. You said I know what I'm saying because it's true, that's what you said. So now I remind you of one sentence that when we were objecting and rebelled against that division of Croatia into two statistical regions when you said, those who say this are not interested in the truth but in the noises. Now I ask you a question, on Valentine's 14th, a new map of regional support was brought to you by Slavonia and Baranja, who, on an earlier map of regional support, had the right to the maximum intensity of regional support of 50% on every investment that comes to Slavonia and Baranja and on any investment of existing business entities in Slavonia and Baranja. And with the new regional support map, that support fell from 50 to 40. Is Slavonia and Baranja damaged or not by that division of you into two statistical regions? So much for the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34295	Prime Minister Milanovic will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34296	First of all, I apologize for my own logical error in the baseless reason of one of the many because I can't say that I'm really telling the truth and that I know what I'm saying, that's not proof. We're all wrong, there's a lot of talk. But unlike those of you who have prepared a speech like a gun with a bullet in the pipe and you're telling me that we've taken the debate in some direction that's really incorrect. So you consciously staged with a prepared speech, a repetitive speech of this debate, and you're saying that we took her in a direction that had nothing to do with it. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. And what's easier, in Maltese? So you consciously did it. ... As for this... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34297	But a colleague of Buric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34298	So you admit that you had a ready sabotage procedure that's okay, it's tolerated here, we have to agree whether it's right or not, but now we tolerate it. So this is anti-business in principle, but come on. And you're saying that we, so who was talking on behalf of the club, me? So I represented a candidate for the minister, I didn't go any further, I said two sentences about his predecessor, there you are with a prepared time bomb and pretend you don't understand anything, and you're still accusing me of taking the debate in the wrong direction. Not fair. I mean, it's really not right of you. As for your dual reaction to reduced support, look, let's tell the public as I asked you several times to finally give me a list of people we've hired in the state system at all and who are employed by a party key. It's been a year, nothing from you. I long to give you that list, it's empty, but I long for you to ask me that. ... I also ask you now to explain the total amount of support that you are talking about in the next replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a subset of a subset of a subgroup and that, in a subset of a subset of a subgroup, there remains so much money that your remark is simply amazing, so that Slavonia would turn out to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34299	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34300	Croatia must grow at a rate of 10% per year, and then it has medicines. So what we've done is great, first league. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34301	Okay. Let's go... A colleague of Buric's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34302	Take half of it, if you're capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34303	Well, Prime Minister. We're going to the next line to be delivered by counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34304	Thank you.../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34305	Turn the microphone on, please, so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34306	... The incompetence of your government and members of your government to justify the godless insolence of the former government. [[Specially enabled.]] It's politically incorrect after 15 months, and it's not true. In fact, I'm going to give you a very short list of the projects that you inherited, which I've now written down so quickly. Namely, you inherited the project of building the Vc road corridor in the north of Slavonia and in the south of Ploč, you inherited the project of the Pelješko bridge, you inherited the project of the bridge through Drava, you inherited the highway project towards Ploča, you inherited the project of PLINACRO at the gasification of Dalmatia, you inherited numerous projects of JANAF both in Krk and Žitnjak etc., you inherited the project of construction in all sea ports: both in Rijeka and in Zadar and in Šibenik and in Split and in Split and in Dubrovnik, you inherited the project of building the Airport in Zagreb, you inherited the project of construction of the highway to Sisak, you inherited the project of construction of the highway towards Koprivnica and Bjelovar, you inherited the project Brijuna, you inherited the project of the high level of the Danube waterway, you inherited the project of the Danube canal. I'm just counting this quickly for a little while on everything you've inherited. That was just a moment ago, and the esteemed colleague of Komadina also said that there was nothing that could be done in three months because nothing was inherited. Unlike this government, we prepared it all at a time when we ended negotiations and in the same difficult times of the global crisis we ended that same year with GDP growth. So much for the ability of one government and another.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34307	And this replica corresponds to Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34308	Well, I don't know if it's 0% growth, but it was a year's break in Europe, that's right. You've listed a whole series of projects of which some are pure fog, and some are starting to work, and some are standing for years thanks to you and the problem is that you haven't done what you haven't done, we're partly suggesting that you haven't done what you've done, but much more than you've done damage and that's the problem and the total damage in the country, and it's now visible and it's coming to the surface. And things are going to start, the Zagreb airport is moving, but you can't start building an airport where we're the key things are going to end with us, you'd probably have done it too if you'd stayed in power but you didn't, so we brought us, the funding was found and it's going to start building. As they say in rural terminology, the first shovel will be buried. ... Who's throwing that away? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's about the Peles Bridge again, you. The local elections are coming, yes, it is a candidate. ... Well, isn't it distasteful to mention the Peljeka Bridge where you broke a contract with the performers who had to break up the Ministry of Hajdash Doncic, I think people should have been persuaded and asked to give up, not to sue us for not being provided with the funds. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you can't build on your breath, you have to have money. So, given that Croatia built a significant part of its infrastructure and that it built it itself and that it was started at the time of the mandate of that coalition government and that this was given a terrible swing, that later it was a little too high, that we might have gone a little too far, now we can't, like Europe anymore. But the Peleski Bridge, or an adequate alternative, but the Peleski Bridge is something I'm going to insist on in Europe, and I do that every time I go up there, but I'm not talking. Some things I talk about, some things I don't talk about, negotiations I don't talk about, some agreements and results end up seeing Slovenia. So you can't do everything openly, which doesn't mean that if you work closed, it's illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34309	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34310	You work in the state interest. So the Peljek Bridge is something that I'm ending up with, so it's almost morally owed and it's a little money for them and I'm working on it and I'm going to fight for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34311	The next line is a colleague of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I'm going to give the Prime Minister a chance again for new orders I'm going to try not to go down to your level and never answer to you personally, especially the insults that you are inclined to do. But I'm going to tell you a figure that first came to mind, evidence is that both respected, high-quality and wonderful university professors can make a mistake, you're the best proof of it. You just forgot to say, they didn't propose you as Prime Minister or as party president. They've proposed you as a diplomatic officer and I believe you've done this job incomparably better than you're doing the job of the Prime Minister. What I wanted to tell you, not to name anyone, the democratic standards that you advocate to approach or engage in Europe. It is inappropriate for your wife to be the primary promoter of the first health - care module, whether she received a salary or did all the work voluntarily. It is about Mr Milanovic that if you keep to high standards, some things should not be allowed. And you can, besides the press, call the Indians and have your entire party surround me after what I said, I'd be happy to give them information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34313	It'll be interesting to hear the answer to the replica. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34314	Insinuations that we're breaking the law and that's why she's illegally employed. When you're the Prime Minister in our one of our ministries, you said that, that's what you're saying, from the fact that she's employed in one of the ministries, which, of course, is a complete invention, we've come to the conclusion that you're now in the absence of any evidence and we'll discuss it as far as I'm concerned, you say what you want. You've come to the point that it's not appropriate for my wife to be what the module promoter is. So my wife is an employee of a public institution whose founder is the Croatian government for 11 years and teaches at the university. Who's doing this job? The consultants. They charge for it. Politically speaking, therefore, it is perfectly appropriate, rightly and even from the point of view of promoting certain values necessary for individuals to engage in this way, of course, if they do not cheat and cheat. So it's my wife's job and she's doing it in the best of faith. It's her job at work and it's that module one. Therefore, since she is illegally employed in one of our ministries, we come to the fact that she is not employed, but that, in the course of her work, it is her work obligation. You understand? So that's what she's into. This is a description of her post at the State Institute for Public Health and at the School of National Health Andrija Printar, which is part of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Zagreb. She's doing it and she's getting paid for it and nothing else and no one else. Otherwise, don't do your job. Only module one, so only what he can do. Is that it or what to do? To give up his job? Should I hire her somewhere over a relationship? I could ask you for that advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34315	The last replica, colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, I can't take the impression. Every one of your arrivals which is very rare, some say you point out who the swingr Phil is only on Thursdays, and you rarely come to the Croatian Parliament unless you change ministers. Well, that's how we have a new one on the agenda today. Every act of yours, unfortunately, although you may not want it, but it is stronger than you is marked by arrogance, it is marked by the narrative of how we should behave and how polite dialogue should be conducted. Equally unmarked to teach journalists what their job is, whom they should now surround under quotes, and what perhaps they should not report today, and what they should do. Mr. Prime Minister, you say you pushed us into the tunnel. You're doing it. You're calling for honesty, so please be honest. Tell me honestly, we've increased the VAT from 23 to 25%. Be honest and tell them the power's up. Be honest and say that our citizens have no one to look at anymore. They were looking at you, but they see that you're obviously not the way out for our country. It is legitimate and human to stand in defense of your wife, but who will stand in defense of the unemployed, who will stand in defense of the desperate citizens whom you have killed every hope. It's not time for a quiz policy, it's not time for your professional resume. It's time to take responsibility. If you can't do that, then maybe it's time to look at a file that says something about you and read it with Zoran. Or you'll find something about me in your files. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34317	And in this replica, we will hear Prime Minister Milanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34318	Very nice ingredient. It's not legitimate to stand up for its wife, it's not legitimate to stand up for its wife because she's my wife. It's legitimate to stand up for people who do legitimate and legal work. That's legitimate. You would probably stand in defense of anyone from your clan in a broader sense of the word regardless of the price. I wouldn't! To prevent that from happening first, I make sure that I don't find myself in such a situation. And secondly, I'm not saying it's legitimate to protect the one who broke the rule. You see how the subconscious works. You wrote a speech and once again a deep mistake was derailed, the concept error was subdued. Otherwise, if my speeches are marked by arrogance I can't defend myself from that. What do we do? I mean, what am I supposed to say? That your speeches aren't marked by anything? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34319	We continue to discuss clubs, so I invite my colleague, Joza Radosha, to speak on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34320	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I don't know if it's legitimate to say that the Minister of Tourism's appointment of tourism doesn't say anything. Maybe it's legitimate, maybe it's legitimate to speak incessantly and then accuse someone else of calling on ink. Maybe it's legitimate in this parliamentary debate. It may be legitimate to accuse someone in this case of an insult to the Prime Minister, and then in that address to insult this Prime Minister and some other people who are and are not here. Maybe it's all legitimate. It may be legitimate to talk about someone’s insensitiveness, to measure who they are, and how they feel. Maybe it's legitimate, but I don't like it. The debate we have today is absolutely not above the level this Parliament has reached. I don't know if it's below, but it's definitely not above. So, in that sense, we're not making any progress. It was said here that Plan 21 is dead, calling for, of course, the clashes that exist in the coalition and that are in fact inevitable in every real coalition, HDZ can hardly know that because it is actually a real coalition where partners agree and control each other, but they don't always agree that it never even had a national level, so it's hard to talk about it. But here on behalf of the HNS Club, I must say that Plan 21 has been translated into the Government of the Republic of Croatia Programme and is being realized with the best efforts of the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parliamentary majority. As it will be at the end of the term, we will see it, but in these really difficult circumstances that we have, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing everything it can, I guess or I'm sure it makes some mistakes, something is missing, but it does everything to realize this 21-based plan that has received the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'll just say one thing about the situation in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is located. Namely, speaking of Mr. Lorencin, someone said that he was the assistant minister of investment and competitiveness, and in this area for the last 15 months, we haven't seen much of a shift. Therefore, from the level of ministerial assistants for such a demanding area as investment and competitiveness are expected to see the result after 15 months. What exactly are we talking about? Before, last week in this House was a debate on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's Report. Then here from this pay phone, i.e. from the bench, I brought out one terrible data, the costs of this 2013 budget on behalf of the debt and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office are 28 plus 35 equal to 63 billion kuna and make up almost half of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. This is the state in which this country is located, and now Mr. Lorencin, of the post of Assistant Minister for Investment and Competitiveness, should change that in 15 months. And neither this 46 billion-euro debt nor giving pensioners 35 billion kuna was created in those 15 months but was created in the years before, and most of all in both parts, so both in terms of debt and in terms of the number of our pensioners was created in the last 8 years of HDZ rule. And now Mr. Lorencin, from the post of Assistant Minister for Investments and Competitiveness, should solve and make visible shifts within 15 months. Speaking of which, last time, I'm gonna do it again, and now I've said 20 Supermans for 10 years, it's gonna have to work infallibly and perfectly to get this country out of this difficult situation. I understand, of course, the negative perceptions of the opposition, and I understand the lack of patience among our citizens. It's hard to live and probably few who have an understanding of who, but those of us who run this business, I mean, of course, all of us, we should know what the depth of the problem is and how this problem can eventually be solved and who can solve it. I, of course, repeat again, do not amnesty the Government, and I expect that in these circumstances, in the extremely infamous international circumstances of the general crisis, I expect that, in these circumstances, the Government, at the end of its term of office, will show relevant shifts in its work, particularly in the area of the economy. Speaking of tourism, tourist land was mentioned. A problem that exists for 20 years, a problem that hasn't been removed from a dead end. It is said that state-owned companies in the tourism sector that are the way they are, disappear, are not restructured, are not profiting, so this is a problem that has also existed for 20 years. Well, it's nothing new. The project "Kupari" is being talked about, so it is, of course, much easier to make a project of anything and the railways and the Coopers than to solve the problem of Cooper. And that hidden treasure, dead capital has been standing there in that space for 20 years now, let's just say if we don't make wartime, of course, it was a war zone, then it's 15 years old and nothing. And now Mr. Lorencin or the government should be able to handle it in 15 months. It can't be that way absolutely. And that's why I don't know if it's legitimate to speak in the way they've spoken to their colleagues, it's absolutely not legitimate and it's below every level to mock someone who's been here. Everyone, first of all, should have no cause for mockery. You can make fun of someone who hasn't given a cause for mockery, so if there should be a cause for mockery for each of us, there would be a cause for mockery and it is indeed beneath each level that some colleagues here mocked some other colleagues and colleagues. That absolutely in my gut can't be legitimate. Finally, a few words about a colleague, or candidate for Minister of Tourism, Mr. Lorencin. There was no mention here, no one mentioned it in this great debate that Mr. Lorencin had completed a marketing business school for tourism managers, which should be an important qualification in a job that he would do, an important national job such as the tourism minister. It was not mentioned that he was a member of the headship of the Istrian County for international co-operation and European integration, which could also be important for this job. It was not mentioned that he was the project manager for the development of new tourism products in the Istrian county tourist community, which is also an important reference. And of course a number of other qualifications that are important, not for the conduct of Mr. Lorencin's duties, but for the prosperity of the tourism sector, which is much more important to this country. And don't come these results by themselves, it doesn't matter what kind of minister he is, and so there wasn't even a letter here in this House, and that's what I'm saying might be legitimate, but certainly it's not something we have to strive for. But in the end there's something good, there's something good and in this debate, and it's that Mr. Lorencin as future tourism minister, I hope he can understand, draws a lesson from this debate that sometimes or in our political life as he is, it doesn't matter too much what they tell you, is it not good, but it's important what you do, so I invite him to take that lesson out of this debate and be a good tourism minister who will get the support of the HNS club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34321	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas, the first reported by Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. President of the Croatian Government. My colleague Radosh, you're back to being false, the numbers are exact, and you can't tell fairy tales about them. So 35 billion pensioners' spending is the cost of the state budget. Loan interest is the cost of the state budget and like all other expenditures, when you count those expenditures as expenses, then you get to the 10% deficit. Otherwise, counterpart Rados, the Croatian state is unfortunately not returning loans from the past, but reprogramming them. Therefore, this 63 billion story of yours is simply ridiculous and it may be the biggest delusion anyone has said today in this House, but since you have already objected to your colleagues that he did not talk about tourism, I expected you as a member of the ruling coalition that you will say something. However, what I want to say and why in principle I did not even want to report to the past replicas, this is the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament to conduct such a debate on the appointment of a minister, for the first time. In this way, which has potentiated such a debate, and for the first time, it is that whoever proposes the minister talks in this way with the parliamentary deputies. So there was always an agreement between them, and the agreement was initiated by a representative ruling the coalition and during the late Ivica Racan that clubs would present their views on the candidate, never allowed the Prime Minister to perform like this in the Assembly during the proposal of a minister. Mr Milanović, you can continue this way on countless occasions, and this is how you bring down your government and your dignity of the Croatian Parliament. I don't think a colleague of Laurence just agreed to his appointment or not, he didn't deserve this. We should give him a chance, the opposition won't vote for him, and we can discuss his work in the future. I also think of my colleague Milanovic, as well as my colleague Radosh as saying that this debate is unfortunately not an honor to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34323	Time. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34324	So, speaking on behalf of the club, your colleague Jandrokovic was talking about how inexorable the figures are. ... Why are you a nervous colleague of Shucker's? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34325	I'm not nervous at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34326	So don't be nervous, what are you nervous about? Well, don't. So, counterpart Jandrokovic said the figures were inexorable, and this is official data written in the budget, both in the RS budget, and the other in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Report. And it's inexorable, it's just saying whether it's coming back from the budget so it's in charge of what, it's irrelevant things Mr. Shucker, that's what this country has to give annually and what half of it remains for what, for social policy, for education, for everything else. There's half that budget left, and that's it, that's what you left this government, and now you expect it to solve all our difficulties in a year. The debt interest you've made is equal to the government budget deficit, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34327	What are you talking about? And that part while you did...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34328	Nine, up to ten billion of them are interest on that debt, so much is the government budget deficit. And now you're talking about how to handle it overnight. As far as tourism is concerned, I spoke very little about tourism because you created circumstances in which it is difficult to talk about tourism, but this little talk of tourism was incomparably more than all the opposition clubs of representatives who spoke about tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34329	Thank you. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here you are, fellow Rados, saying that Plan 21 has been translated into this government's plan and that it is being realized or that it will be realized even though it may not have been realized in these 15 months. I would just like to conclude that the realization of Plan 21 is moving through the following points: the decline of gross domestic product 2%, the number of unemployed 375 or 380 thousand, the increase in gas price 35%, the increase in electricity prices 20%, the increase in VAT to 25%, the excise tax on profits 20%, the drop in human production 12%, 8% inflation, 5% less wages, 10% more expensive gasoline. These are the results of the 21. Croatia is totally backward. The destruction of the village, not the payment of incentives, if that is Plan 21, then it is a Croatian disaster, Mr. counterpart Rados. If you have plotted this in your plan of these fiscal indicators, this misery and misery that Croatia experiences with its entire being, then it is truly a wonderful plan for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34331	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34332	Speaking of the government programme, Mr. Djakic, I have listed four data that I said should be repeated over and over again, and I don't really repeat them so often. And these are so difficult data that talk about the state in which you brought the country, your party not yourself, and that's a 46 billion-euro debt, that's the ratio of pensioners and workers 1:21 to the lowest one that has ever been so far. This is the fact that the average pension was 38% of the average salary. The lowest data that ever appeared is the government budget deficit of nearly 5%, 15 billion kuna and export coverage of around 55%. That's terrible data, and that's what I've been talking about, and it needs to be repeated all the time. The increase in VAT was only due to the lack of complete collapse, the bankruptcy of the state, which led to an increase in VAT, because you created such demands on the budget and such a weak economy that the only way to save the country's bankruptcy was to increase VAT and the same situation and to increase electricity. If it hadn't been for an increase in electricity due to the false shadows you had, there would have been bankruptcy in Croatia's electricity industry. That's the data we need to talk about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34333	Thank you. I'm begging you, you can discuss this later. Next replica Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Radoš, I must say that I am impressed with the cold blood you spoke to today on behalf of the HNS Club because the only thing I disagree with you is that this one, you said that this debate is not progress in the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament. I'd say my impression is that this debate today was below all levels, very rude and inappropriate for the new minister. Mr. Lorencin's future minister. In fact, it has turned into an exposé of party members who have told us about morality, character, ability, professionalism and various other virtues, forgetting in the name of the parties with which they speak. They spoke on behalf of a party whose former great leader sought helicopters on Austrian highways when he ran from a country he ran online. They spoke on behalf of a party on which, on the night of election victory or defeat, they left their next president in 50 steps. When a woman turns away from a powerful army, there are only a few who have a human and political character and ultimately speak for the party and now I will refer to the presentation of my colleague, Sunny Glavak. I am sorry that he is not here in the Parliament, which said Prime Minister Milanovic is very rarely in the Parliament. Is there a politician in Croatia who receives salary in the Croatian Parliament than Croatian citizens who is less rare than Prime Minister Milanovic, which is Mr Karamarko because if all his stenograms were put on paper in the past 15 months, they would be on the postcard. He did so properly, consistently, the work of a parliamentary representative in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. So, it's really too much, I'm impressed by your patience to listen to today this harassment in the Croatian National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34335	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34336	Comrade Baranovic, I agree with everything you said but you said it much nicer than I would know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34337	And the last replica of Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34338	Thank you. Dear fellow Rados, you have wondered, probably and with the right, how this debate actually moved away from the debate on tourism, but to discuss There you go. Thank you. [[/Intruder Batinić: I ask you colleague Buric, forgive me here we will stop time. Please don't throw away your colleagues, let's let my colleague Buric replicate.]] But to discuss trust here is the fourth new minister in the government in only 15 months still requires then to ask a question about the work of the entire government. I think that's what you mean. You've listed a whole series of statistical indicators that talk about what you inherited. They are more or less standing, but I will also remind you that in the term of this government and the risk of poverty, and for that we cannot blame that previous government increased by some 20.6% over 21%, so more than every fifth citizen of Croatia and in the mandate of this government came into the category of the poor. But here's what I'm going to use, Prime Minister, you said in the next line, that's what I'm saying, I ask a question. So I'm going to tell you now, I know 68.8% of the EU funds are intended for the weakest developed regions but I don't know if you know how much in the state budget for 2014 your government has foreseen for co-financing funds of the 15-25% that the Croatian state will have to make. Out of the projected billion and 400 million euros that we need in the year you have 15% should be 210 million euros. That's a billion and 570 million kuna. Are you sure that's secure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34339	Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34340	Maybe I was wrong. I found 318 million kuna. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34341	My colleague Buric's replica is on... My colleague, Radoš, please choose your reply to the replica. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34342	So, first, my colleague Buric presented this thesis, and then the other colleagues on behalf of other opposition clubs presented a completely irrelevant fact here, the fact that this is the 4th Minister in 15 months leaving, and then the two ministers went on higher force and that this is something that is terrible about the instability of the government, etc. in this case, if the government continued to change its composition, then the average minister's life would be about 2.5 years, which is an absolute average age of ministers in Europe. So the ministers usually last somewhere like that for an average of 2.5 years, so in that sense, it's not dramatic at all. I lasted as a minister for 2.5 years just so much somewhere on the European average. So you're wrong about your colleague Buric. I think it's better for you to get back to the boys.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34343	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34344	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break. I don't really understand why you're so nervous today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34346	You're a little nervous because you've been doing a shift list on HRT, which is probably why you're nervous, so because of the information that certain shifts have been made on public television, please pause for 15.00 minutes on behalf of the HDZ club, and also about the complete climate created in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34347	Here you go, buddy Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34348	That on behalf of the HDSSB club, I'm also looking for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34349	A colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34350	Likewise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34351	Is that what you're looking for? Okay. Thank you. I'm determining a break of 15.00 minutes. My colleagues and colleagues, we move on. It's been 15 minutes. On behalf of the HDZ club Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34353	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We called this stop on behalf of the HDZ Club and what we said earlier in this Croatian Assembly, offered and with a desire for freedom of speech in the Croatian public space, offered by a colleague that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right to do their job and to say what they think. We warned that when it was the HINA Act, we warned about the changes to the HRT Act. Never, as far as I remember in history, has the Prime Minister directly called journalists, journalists' work, HRT and other public media in the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the HRT Act were made in order to be appointed by the majority of votes and by the political majority's will by the perpetrators of duties directly implementing the policy of the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, an unremembered pressure was made by the government on HRT, after which HRT responded by saying they were against being involved in their business. We do not enter at all how and for what it has been said here and there, we are not going into what people in the Croatian Information Programme are doing, but the fact is that after political pressure, there has been a change of editors on HRT who are responsible for Dnevnik 3, otherwise the most visible journal of HRT and that these people have been replaced today. The fact is that the head director here of HRT was not elected by political consensus, the fact is that it was done by a vote, the fact is that it was warned by the European Commission that it was a whole worse law than the previous law. The fact is that it promotes political unanimity and no matter what anyone says, it sends a clear political message of freedom of speech and the independence of the media in the Republic of Croatia. When the Prime Minister calls for a press release on which he criticises HRT for 15 minutes and then sends a letter that he mocks their undeterminedness and objectivity, then he is not surprised at these shifts of editors that followed today. This is a clear message that will not be tolerated on Croatian public television any critical tone towards him and the government and a clear message of freedom of journalism in which they should be treated. That's not by chance saying the same thing happened to HINA, where a political party's spokeswoman, who is participating in the coalition, was elected as director. That this is not accidentally said and the amendment voted on by the European Parliament's Extrapolitical Committee which clearly warns the authorities in the Republic of Croatia to improve the independence and neutrality of the media, and the message of the prime minister who sent 15 minutes is a clear message to every journalist who wants to criticise or troublesome.... This brings us back to the party television system, and this we return to the fact that the Prime Minister is conducting pressure on those who are there, V.D. competitions for which the workplace is currently under way, how to behave and what to report and how to apply to certain topics. We find this inadmissible, we regret that the Prime Minister was not here when we also talked about it because this is definitely a frightening phenomenon in the Croatian media space, and thus in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34354	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, my colleague Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He said a fellow return to communist times, or I'll say it in communist censorship. I've been looking for it, and I've found a nice piece of work, and it's good to always have something like that, which is about censorship in Yugoslavia since '45. '90s. For one thing, I will now quote to you on page 15: "Even before coming to power on February 8, 1945 The Communist Party publishes a decision on the mandatory delivery of printed items in Yugoslavia for the purpose of preventive analysis of what will be published and made available to the public.". Now knowing that there is a preventative, or that there is a so-called. preventive censorship, so this is what is censored and before publication, should be reminded that there is so-called. Suspensive censorship, which is when it's being carried out after something's been published. Here's what we're witnessing right now is a classic example of exactly this suspension censorship. Is there anything else to add to what we have been warning about today, and what the entire vast majority of the Croatian public, and now the media in recent days, have been warning about what is happening when it comes to the president of the Croatian government and its behaviour in relation to the creation of the image that he would like the Croatian public to have about him and the government he runs? But this is already getting dangerous, this is coming out of the bounds of haughtiness. Now we already have classic examples of what we used to call communist cleaners. Here is the question of people's existence and the constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression of opinion is at stake, not only when it comes to citizens, politicians, but what journalists should do if not as well as I said I did not allow the Prime Minister to answer the questions. Be investigators and come to the truth. When it's investigated by journalists and it comes to the truth and it shows the public as it doesn't like our Prime Minister, then it starts not just a shift, but this is the first step towards what really threatens people to end up on the street. And we are increasingly witnessing that our current Prime Minister is becoming increasingly lost due to the high level of incompetence he has shown over the past 15 months, because he has lost both his will and his vision. And if he'd lost his will, I'd have said even sitting in the Ban Courts. Today it also tells me the fact that he sits patiently and persistently here today under this item of the agenda in the Croatian Parliament. Looks like he's got a taste for these constituencies, 'cause I didn't notice he's in pain with his groins. I hope he doesn't get chronic inflammation. I'd rather sit here than be in the Croatian government. All of what we could briefly read on the portals today is very worrying. I hope our black hunch that Croatia is being introduced is what we thought a long time ago will not be true. But I would tell all those who dream of returning to those times, that Croatia is an independent, independent and democratic state and that it will not allow parliamentary representatives, it will not allow Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34356	Thank you. We have a replica. There's no replica of colleagues in the Rules of Procedure at club exposure. Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club colleague Vukšić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34357	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's the classic auto goal. With his media press intervention, the prime minister compromised editors at HRT. Who will now believe that they have acted on their own conscience? I hope after this intervention the Prime Minister will consider what he's doing. He announced a classic media shoot yesterday. He said I don't have my own media. But what happened today on HRT turns out to have its own media. I was just curious, one thing I was curious about, and I asked on HRT in this break if that conversation was recorded. Because as you know in the third journal when you're visiting those who have been visiting, we who haven't been visiting know only from talking, you can record a conversation or talk has been live. It was a live conversation. So, the responsibility of two people who didn't sit in the studio is completely out of responsibility. Because Denis Latin couldn't react because the host, I didn't watch that third diary and I can't judge Mrs. Ruza Tomasic's appearance whether it was a hate speech. Apparently, they were removed because they allowed a hate speech. The other two editors were unable to influence the course of the interview in the study because they were not present except that they broke into the studio and said to interrupt the conversation. But it would be a bigger incident than it is now. It's not good when editors change, but as a 30-year-old journalist, I was at least a 25-year editor on TV and in newspapers. I don't have the right for editors to decide. I knew I'd replace the lower-ranked editors myself. I've done it. I've never done it on the orders of a superior or a powerful man. I will not doubt the honesty of those who did so, until proven otherwise. However, exchange practice is not good. In particular, it is not good because of the fact that the conversation was conducted live and that three editors had been replaced. Is that a deal on HRT with non-invisibles, is that some kind of private account, I don't know. I guess we'll find out more, because the sentence we saw on the portals that HRT editors will solve their problems within the television is still to be clarified because they are obliged to explain to the Croatian public what happened. However, it should not be denied that on HRT even though the main director was elected three months ago, the order has not yet been introduced, that there is still chaos, that there are no criteria set up there, so I would also appeal as chairman of the Media Committee, as a parliamentary representative and a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, that finally the public television is functioning, that it is at the service of the citizens, but I also appeal to the leaders if it happened in this show "Dnevnik 3" by a very watched hate speech then the host was wronged, or should have simply warned the guest of hate speech, apologized to the viewers because otherwise we create a bad, evil atmosphere. Journalists are as responsible as we politicians are for their own and spoken word as well as for their inaction. So, I'm quite certain from this pay phone that we often attacked here one person who made major mistakes at HRT Hlork Novak-Srzic, but I was a vinic that she repeatedly interrupted the guests because of their inappropriate public media leaving on HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34358	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague of Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34359	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I think before we decide to criticize someone else for what he's done, we should ask ourselves what we've done? What have we done in this House so that the media image of this Parliament will not be as it is? So there won't be a circus coffee, a Slavonic or another party where there's no serious debate possible and if there's one then you can't see it because it'll go on TV, it'll go on the front page of the newspaper, and those who try to discuss something will stay below the frequency and below the lens of those who report. What did we do? We hurried to report and condemn those who allegedly replaced three editors. And when we've been answering for editors' exchanges and getting journalists kicked out of that same television house over the past few years and over the past decade, when? Never! When did this Parliament discuss this? About how devastated Croatian TV and Croatian radio was that she could not recover from it until today? Never! And now that we're talking about the measure of things do we listen to Croatian radio and watch Croatian TV? And we should, I suppose. If nothing else, then when we drive home or when we come to the Parliament or at night when we come back and look at informational or other shows. How many examples of hate speech were there? How many examples of unprofessional and incorrect reporting were there? A lot. My associates listed six, seven or ten cases of ecultaneous non-professional proceedings in relation to facts yesterday. For example, about who Jure Francetic was. Yeah, you don't know about that. But you know what was in Finland. But you know where Spickin's is. But you don't know who Jure Francetic was. It's controversial for HRT and its editors. When those who call for hatred in the ether are released, I have not heard the fences of editors and leaders, and I have not heard that anyone has been sanctioned, and I have not heard that this Parliament has launched a debate on this basis of its responsibility as founder of public service and public television. And I have not heard that anyone has launched the initiative let's see what it is and what the situation in the media is without which there is no democracy, without which there is no parliamentaryism, without which there is no serious control of the government or serious policies. No, we prefer to hang out with these media, we prefer to make some kind of complete with them, we respond to any of their rackets or try to be good with them or not but not to discuss what the real situation is there. What's the real state of ownership on the private media? What is the real situation on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV. No! No! But now we're waiting for this to open a story about what? Does the prime minister of a country have to talk about the state of the media? There is. He bears responsibility for his style, but the right to say so has. And none of us can challenge him. And his style is his business and he'll face him whether he's good or not. But the issue of the situation is a common matter between him and ours and the presidents and journalists. How many professional journalists can't do their job, which is why they're tabulated. How many professional journalists can't do their job because of yellow and surveillance that is inadmissible, and we don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34360	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34361	So, I'm not happy that there's been this shift at this point, and I'm not happy that there's been this shift over the SDSS statement and the head of the SDSS, but I'm even more unhappy about the fact that we're not in the media as we normally don't deal with other things that we shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34362	Thank you. We are continuing with a proposal to show Darka Lorencin's confidence in the duties of Minister of Tourism. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34363	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. All those who are going in the direction of Dalmatia or from the direction of Dalmatia towards Zagreb could see the first campsite houses going in the direction of Zadar, which are going in the direction of other destinations, I say Zadar because it is closest to me and originally and in other ways, but also in the direction of other destinations. So we can all see that as spring is there, that is also tourist season there. And where are we? We're here, we're discussing what guests? Those who should come, who have begun to come or those who are guests in this country and in this Parliament. What have we been discussing these past days and today in this House? About guests who should enrich our country, who should bring good memories or about us in the Assembly representatives of national minorities, about citizens of Croatia, members of national minorities who individually proclaim guests in this country. As far as I'm concerned, and as to the party I belong to, we won't argue. But we will discuss one thing, instead of looking at two pearls of Christian church, spiritual, thought, life, two pearls of the spiritual center of the Catholic and Orthodox Church in northern Dalmatia as a source and a model of community and common life and as an exceptional potential of tourism for this poor and unhappy end, and we are talking about the Manastir on the island of Visovac where the church is approximately, the first roots are somewhere from the 14th century when the monastery is Wednesday, then Clostar from the 15th century and the church from the 17th century. Not far from him is the Krka monastery also from 14. Centuries., The Empress of Queen Jelena, or Princess of Jelena, wife of Prince Mladen Šubić. Instead of turning it into a place to connect, some say I am now talking to dear colleagues from HDZ, local leaders it is a leg of Chettice, and it is not enough to say once, but to repeat it is the leg of Chettice. You know what I'd do to him if he was SDSS or close to the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34364	Comrade Pupovac, I ask you to return to the topic of showing your trust to Darko Lorencin as future Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34365	Mr. Vice President, you have not chaired this session until now, so I respect your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34366	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34367	But I'll say the next thing, it's really time to start discussing the government's proposal to appoint Mr. Lorencin as Minister of Tourism. I will take this opportunity as well as Jozo Radoš to say a few words about what the government, what the future minister expects in that portfolio and what we would like to be his job in these years that are before him and who are before the government. First, in my opinion, we must do everything possible to make tourist services and tourist offers available to us, to make it cheaper than it is, to make it more competitive than in some other countries because, unfortunately, in a number of indicators, our tourist offer doesn't take care of it, our tourist measures don't care enough about it. People living on islands will always tell you that ferry tickets are too expensive, that they reject guests, that they make it impossible for them and make it difficult for tourists to offer whether it's for those who work in restaurants, whether it's for those who rent rooms or apartments. We expect something to be done in this regard. There is also no tourism without other branches, especially without agriculture, especially without food production. Why is Istrian tourism from where the proposed candidate for minister is so successful and is successful among other things because it has its own agricultural offer, because it has its own domicile production, because it is able to domiciledly not only on those 5 km by the sea but to offer deep, deep inside what people who create for the seasons whether it is wine, grapes, vegetables, fruit about another type of food can share with those who are engaged in tourism and tourism offer. How is the matter in Dalmatia in this regard, what is the matter with Slavonia in this regard? Not at all. How's it going with Luce in that regard? Not at all. Of the two hundred and fifty thousand sheep that were in the People who provided Plitvice and the entire tourist area today, if you can find 25 thousand will be fine. And that is why we expect that the overall efforts to revitalise our economy, the idea of tourism and the understanding of tourism are not only declared to be linked to the strengthening of agriculture but rather to the fact that it is really linked to the strengthening of agriculture. Now let me have another old one when it comes to our tourism. More or less, we all expect a report on how much tourism revenue will be in 9 or 10 months. Not in terms of the number of tourists and the number of overnight stays, but in terms of total income. It is rare to ask questions and our colleague Schucker, who was a minister in his day, that the other minister has no sector here, and then he won't mind me speaking to him very well knows what the relationship between real income and what banks do in that short time with their exchange rate policies relative to foreign exchange rates is either in relation to the exchange rate. And how much of that same tourism actually goes where it shouldn't go. Based on what? Based on clean machination and permitted course manipulation. Would you like Mr. Prime Minister, the minister I'm sure we'll choose, or that we'll give confidence to give authority along with the finance minister to see how many countries and how much tourism revenue is really reduced thanks to that kind of speculation. And it's not very hard to see in the end that the government is having difficulties, but compared to how many we are and what our common difficulties are, what the general situation of governmental difficulties really look like as relatively small. Today’s debate in his greatest work, as my colleague Rados said, showed that we, unfortunately, are not large enough in relation to these difficulties. Very often we personalized the debate, very often we exchanged arguments that were not focused on what should be the very thing. I understand that it is necessary in politics, I understand that it attracts this in the debate, but there was too much. I wish those who can say more about tourism than I can say about tourism and surely there are them in these benches that I could hear from them the real challenges of Croatian tourism, that I could hear what it really is waiting for the new minister when it comes to tourism but unfortunately we almost didn't hear any of it. Even this small modest contribution of mine in this regard will certainly not significantly mark or enrich what we have heard so far. Dear Mr. Vice President, don't blame me for starting my debate on something that was only indirectly possible to bring about tourism but I had no intention of contaminating the entire debate as the overall atmosphere in our country in recent weeks and past days has been contaminated. And I'd like to tell our colleagues from HDZ. Some time ago I saw that you adopted the Code of Pre-election Act, that there would be no hate speech, that there would be no plantings and disqualifications, I only remind you that it made us happy, and I am very sad that one of the candidates on your European Parliament list is on your list and acting as your spokeswoman. I'm so sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34368	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one was Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have devoted part of your debate to the debate on trust, and I hope the future minister, and in that part, you have also talked about the fact that if the islanders were asked... you spoke importantly about the price of ferry lines. Here I am going to tell you that last night I listened to the show of Croatian Radio Pomorie Evening, which was hosted by the Director of the Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency in Split, otherwise SDP candidate for the mayor of Split, and that for this tourist season he announced the collection of tickets in catamaran transport by 60%. So I would ask Mr. Lorencin to try and from the foundation of his resort because on Croatian islands, there are over 2 million tourists and every 5th night in the Croatian tourist season on Croatian islands. This announcement if it is correct, which Mr Baldazar said will increase the price of catamaran tickets by 60% will indeed reduce the number of arrivals on Croatian islands and islanders, which will certainly be a major obstacle to travel, on the one hand, and on the other hand will certainly have a significant impact on the arrival of the number of tourists on the Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34370	Thank you. And the last replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pupovac is the first part of the debate, so I won't even comment on him, but in this second part, you were really talking about what the new tourism minister should do and I absolutely agree with that. So it is true that the islanders are dissatisfied with the price of ferry transport that it is too expensive for it to suffer both the island's economy and the island's tourism. I therefore hope that the new minister will not be burdened with what the IDS candidate for the mayor of Istria has said, with which he was burdened by the former minister, and this is some debts to the hotelers by some potential liabilities due to bonuses he received, etc. We heard it all here today. So when they will not be burdened with this, they will probably implement the Law on Tourism Land and finally the state will concession and charge to hotelers and large campers, so large camps of land which for years will also be used by this country for the purpose of denying millions of revenues. I suggest that it is charged not only to make big money so that it is charged and that these money is subsidized by transport to the islands mainly ferry transport and mainly to subsidise freight transport to the islands because today we have a situation that catamarans are subsidized. I don't know until when and how long since here is my colleague Bacic saying that this is also an announcement of the collection but that the transport of the cargo is not what makes the island's craftsman a problem, the island's economy, because, for example, 70 kg of the burden to translate costs triple the cost of a 70-pound man to transport to the island for reasons of course subsidising passenger transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34372	Thank you. We're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34373	So I ask you to charge what you can charge and then direct to this second part as your colleague Pupovac pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34374	Thank you, colleague. This is what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first one was Walter Boluncic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34375	Good afternoon, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected by the Prime Minister, and we hope for a new minister. I am particularly pleased today that, for the new minister, IDS member Darko Lorencin has been proposed. Tourism is a very important branch of our economy, it is said that over 7 billion revenues have been achieved in 2012, and I particularly think that from Istria and our member is suitable for this place because Istria participates with more than 30% of the traffic, but it is not only important that traffic, Istria has given a lot and will still give because Istria has always been the one leading in the trends that led in the new visions to establish the arrival of guests and we can say freely it was she who raised the standard of service to a higher level. However, that is why I must express my regret that after the speech on behalf of the IDS Club, the debate took a different direction. There have been populist statements that appear to be considered the arrival of guests and season something that is in itself certain whoever is at the head of that ministry that the guests will come that the reason for last year's good season is a set of some circumstances with which we do not have much to do with. Well, it's definitely not like that. Let us not forget that last summer there were games in London and that it was one of the reasons that could potentially have a bad impact on the season. We in Istria who live with it, and I'm sure throughout the coast know that bringing a guest, keeping a guest isn't an easy job at all. Lately, we see what efforts are being made to contribute to the different world televisions on how Croatia and our coast are one of the last untouched areas in Europe, to have a whole series of cultural events and to have one impression that Croatia is a place in Europe worth coming on vacation. Coming on vacation is neither that simple nor so simple for these once rich countries Italy, Germany, Austria once in a long time these people came after two weeks, and today it comes to a shorter time, the economic crisis has affected all areas. That's what I'd like to say because it's an extremely important part of our economy but not just because of it. Although we tend to measure it the number of nights the number of guests has come, it is much more than that. A guest who wants to come to Croatia first of all comes not only because of nature but because of the whole experience of one in the country that comes. And most of the laws that are passed in this House, and we had opportunities to listen to about the first Nature Protection Act this morning, are laws that directly affect the business of this sector. The Act on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Agricultural Land, and in the extreme case and laws that do not work at first sight, it is a law on whether we have roaming or not, whether someone will lose a few thousand euros due to a random internet connection, whether someone will need a visa or not if they come to Croatia, whether there are roads etc. So tourism is a picture of a country that a foreign guest wants to experience properly. I think that Darko Lorencin is the right person for this place, he has shown himself in his work through a single relationship between the economy which was particularly stimulating for small economies in Istria and especially for the development of the rural part of Istria which has become a brand in itself through this development, so through certain wine roads and olives, but let us not forget a whole series of cultural events and incentives for small economies. I'm also sorry, and if I were a little bit attached to what probably Mrs. Lovrin, since I couldn't replicate to her, I said by mistake, today's speaker Damir is not a representative of the IDS for the mayor, I think it was said by mistake. We have a member of Walter Flag who is a candidate for mayor and has shown that he understands this area. I am sorry that today we can hear about one of the most developed regions, about a region that is the richest region in Croatia according to the latest statistics, although it is not far enough, about a region that is most toleranceous, about a region that is most transparent, about a region where everyone thinks is the best for life, that today it's a region that's talked about as some Sicily, about some mafia, and a year ago it's been talked about as California, about this country being a country where everyone can come, where it can be done and it's been said that Croatia actually needs to be triangulated. Today we hear stories about some million money that will come to Istria, and no one has wondered how much money thanks to exactly this 30% share through extra-board consumption is leaving Istria. So I think today some facts about IDS and Istria were said not to blame. I did not point out or want to get involved in this, I believe that tourism is an extremely important branch with multiplicity major effects and that today's debate in the Parliament had to be more dedicated to this area. The people in Istria are for conversation, the people in Istria are the ones who want to see something done. That is why I am sure that Darko Lorencin will be the right man for this place, that Istria will continue to work as hard as it can, and I am particularly glad that other parts of Croatia, that I am not talking about islands, Dalmatia, but I would like to point out that Zagreb, too, follows this example. Once again, tourism is one of the branches that now seems to me in the Parliament I will refer the first development strategy, it is a branch that can help us much by entering the European Union, it is a branch that gives incentives to other branches for their development, from agriculture, the economy, small crafts, road development, telecommunications, our shipyards can find this job and a lot of things. So once again, I'm not going to give my congratulations in advance, I think Darko Lorenc's person who can do it very well, and I'm sure... experience from Istria as the most developed region is exactly what will give him the incentive to try to apply these things. Did anyone have any tails of the hotel, etc. I don't know, but it's also the fact that the last minister picked up praises from everyone who spoke about this field of work, so what he was doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34376	Thank you, too. Next up is Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34377	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. This is the fourth major change in government, and most importantly any of these changes could have been avoided. If you are wondering how the answer might be in Prime Minister Milanovic's statement when he said high criteria were established. If the high criteria had really been put in place then ministers would not have changed themselves after 3.4 months. Mr. Milanovic only pushed the shift of colleague Holly, everyone else went alone because they had to do it because of objective circumstances, let's call them that or because the problems ran over them, grinded them, or because the public doubted their honesty. The moment the prime minister agreed to lead the main word in the government by a man who had been in prison with one foot fell all the criteria, and morality gave way to the interests of the Kukuriku coalition, but more of its individuals. After the Kukuriku coalition was entertained for months by staffing, which means by setting party-like ones on to them too difficult tasks, it was easy to imagine what would happen. We're waiting for Prime Minister's new shift. Here's why. The game among analysts, political analysts in Croatia is called who is next or who is the next former minister. All those who seek the reconstruction of the government make a big mistake because the government's reconstruction is in action. The government is self-restructured, and it's actually a political perpetum of the mobile. After Minister Ostojic stepped down as Minister of Tourism you offered Ivan Jakovcic, at least that's what we heard in the media, which made it clear to you that Plan 21 is dead, and you call a man who doesn't believe in a political stillborn in the government. Why do you do this to stop being an opposition to your own government? The practice of Racan's time continues in the left coalition of right-wing action. You don't appreciate the real parliamentary opposition, because you have an opposition in your own ranks, and that's not our problem. Our problem is the failure of the state, our problem is that you are instead of leading the state, instead of being a statesman, you are turning into a widespread, anarchic spokeswoman of your own vanity. You're doing your homework, you're getting smart, you're making up phrases, and you're not thinking about what you're saying. Because if you were thinking about it, you wouldn't be able to identify local elections with Miss Texas. You argue with the opposition, English professors, bishops, you underestimate the opposition, you call Slavons the unemployed, the citizens of Špičkina and Vukovina unworthy of commenting or even knowing anything. You're trying to be a cynic like Winston Churchill, but cynicism takes wisdom. Do you have that kind of wisdom, Mr. Prime Minister? If you had, you would rule Croatia instead of fighting with all those who don't think like you. And to think like you and feel good is almost impossible. I don't know how our voters feel, because before many colleagues said they were actually speaking on behalf of the voters, on behalf of the people. But I do know that my little one here does not speak for the crowd but for himself. And all I know is that I feel sick. You said when you took power that you took responsibility. I wonder if you have taken responsibility for 375 000 unemployed, responsibility for 245,000 citizens whose accounts are blocked, responsibility for 22% of citizens living below the poverty threshold, responsibility for 18% of citizens who receive a low salary of 3.2 euros per hour, responsibility for 65% of citizens who receive a salary below average or average salary, responsibility for 50,000 citizens who do not even receive a minimum wage, responsibility for the fact that health care is free, but too expensive, responsibility for the fact that education is free or too expensive, responsibility for the fact that we have become a society without perspective, the responsibility that the economy is left without investment and without new jobs that you promised first in the spring, then in the summer, then in the autumn and second spring. Responsibilities for the fact that Croatia is no longer a desirable place for life, so most citizens would do the research if they could leave Croatia at the cost of being guests in some other countries. It is absolutely certain that as an opposition, Croatian Labourists who are not like you just earlier said the neoliberal party but honest left-wings do not want your government badly. Your failure is the failure of all of us, your failure is the failure of all citizens. So it actually amazes your anger at criticism. You consider criticism...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34378	Comrade Vuksic, allow me a moment. Let me interrupt you for a moment. You've been talking for six minutes about the government's trust, and the topic is to show trust to Darka Lorencin. I'm asking you to get back on the subject. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34379	Mr. Vice President, the game doesn't change the criteria. You should have been here the whole time listening to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34380	But if the judge changes, the judge changes the criteria. Comrade Vuksic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34381	Well, I think we've been working on the same Rules of Procedure all day. This is a picture and opportunity of the Kukuriku coalition. who doesn't even respect the Parliament's speech. [[/Invader Batinić: Please return to the topic. You'll force me to take your word.]] This is all I'm saying about the government, the change of the minister, the enthronement of the new minister. But if you don't want us to, we can even leave if we need to get out of the assembly, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34382	Comrade Vuksic, no one's pushing you. I'm just following the Rules of Procedure and instructing you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34383	And why haven't you applied the Rules of Procedure so far? It's been like that the whole time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34384	Will you continue the debate on the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34385	Yes, I'll proceed with the debate. Only two more, three sentences I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34386	Let me get back to the subject. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34387	I'm following the Rules of Procedure now because I'm quoting from Mr. Prime Minister's transcripts and you're not going to deny it, which he was saying this morning, and he said the following. When it comes to the party, he meant Croatian Labourists who oppose European elections on a special date which was not true. They do not object to the Croatian Labour elections on a special date but we have already advocated the elections on the day of the local elections. We advocated the election on the day of the local elections. And the other thing you said was a clean lie, which was a party that was against the EU referendum, and you said just before, a few sentences before that, what I'm saying is a fact. That's what you said. Whether it's a fact or not, let those who listened to your speech and those who listened to what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34388	Thank you, too. We have two replicas first. The first one was Walter Boluncic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34389	Thank you. So here's actually even in some way what I said earlier, here's what we do if we take those half-hours that were talked about HRT for four hours we talk about a very important area for Croatia that brought in 7 billion euros in revenue last year. I think, apart from our member of the Sponsors on behalf of the club, Mr. Radosh and I were having a little talk about the problem we need to approach. Tourism doesn't happen by accident. We in Istria know that well. That we talked about ten things while talking about how to improve agriculture, hotel accommodation. Last year, only 25m euros were invested in Pula to rebuild the hotel today would not be at these branches as regards the debate. So, I'm sorry because it turns out that we all don't think that job matters and that we'll be able to do without it. Secondly, I don't know what you've caught from your opinion, so the IDS conflict. Our party president has made a constructive proposal and has pointed out several times that we are making proposals in the sense that constructive proposals would work better and not some kind of breakup or argument. At the very end of 2003, when it came out, it came out of the government but the IDS continued to give support to the government throughout the range. So, he didn't cross over he just came out of the government because of a problem with a statute in which bilingualism was sought out by us proud. And that one way of living in Istria is certainly due to why today and there the economy may be in that part and on a better level. Therefore, once again, I point out that IDS is for constructive proposals to be made. The most developed region, which has largely reached its strengths, feels that it can set an example somewhere to see how it should be done. That's why I'm pushing for this debate to go further in the direction of how we can welcome this season as best we can. If we have any suggestions in front of us, there are laws that concern it, agricultural land and others because it's not just the law of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34390	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34391	Dear colleague, this is not and you have misunderstood, this is not a debate on tourism, this is a debate on the new Minister of Tourism and then on the work of the Government as much as you wanted or didn't want. You'd like us to talk about tourism now. You missed the subject, I didn't miss the topic. The other thing you said about Mr. Jakovcic being constructive. So Mr. Jakovcic, when he criticises the government, is constructive, not critical, he says that what the government is doing today is dead. He's constructive. And when the opposition criticises, when it says that the Kukurik coalition does not implement what it promised in Plan 21, then the opposition is not constructive, the opposition is destructive, evil, demagogue. It's, you see, double standards. You sit here all the time, you could tell your former colleagues the same thing, and now all of a sudden we're going to change the rules and tell our colleagues not to discuss it but to discuss tourism. And tell me, please, which of the previous colleagues has been discussing tourism so far? And besides, it's not the agenda of the debate on the tourist season, it's the debate on the new minister's trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34392	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll replicate my colleague Vuksic, but it concerns your intervention. You are absolutely right, not to be talking about the tourist season, but under this point of the agenda is not talking about the Tourism Development Strategy, for example, in the Republic of Croatia, so that we should only talk about tourism. This item of the agenda is here today in front of us for the reason that the former minister who led us to appoint a new minister today. And we're talking about, the public is aware, that the reason for the former minister's shift is why the new minister will now be appointed according to media writing, I can't claim, illegally acquired 24 million kunas. If that is true, and obviously is when he left but let it be established, then the debate on the confidence of the new minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be separated from the debate on the work of the entire government of the Republic of Croatia, especially given the fact that it is the fourth shift in 15 months. So you're absolutely right when you insist on talking about both the work of the entire government and the work, and what do we have to say about the new minister? We didn't even know anything when the prime minister banned anything from finding out except what we have on the Internet. We can't ask him anything, nor can he say anything. Even if he wanted to, he wouldn't. Therefore, this is what you take into account, Mr. Vice President, that indeed the Prime Minister himself, during his debate, often spoke not of tourism and of the Minister of Tourism but even of his wife. It was such a subject, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34394	Time. Here's just a little colleague Vuksic, one clarification. Namely, why did I intervene? It is normal that during the debate, you can move away from the government's work. I warned my colleague Vuksic about the reason he dedicated over 50% of the debate to something that was not a topic. And I will allow it, and the subject is a proposal to show Darka Lorencin's trust in the duties of Minister of Tourism. It's a practice and practice is tolerated, but I'm saying because over 50% of the debate was about something else. And now we have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34395	My dear colleague Vice President, I'm not going to delude with you, but let's face it, Mr. Pupovac's debate for five minutes wasn't at all on the subject, it wasn't about the Minister of Tourism or anything else, yet you've allowed 5 minutes because he's a coalition partner. I need less. [[/Invader Batinić: 3.5 minutes for information. This is where we see the recorded.]] Yes, I agree with you colleagues on the reasons for the shift of the former tourism minister for the right reasons we haven't heard anything. I guess now the institutions of the state will act, as one former SDP member says, to do the institutions of a state that mostly do not work. They only work on political dead people. Yes, this is the fourth shift in the government, and it is certain that the opposition is concerned that the ministers are often being replaced and that the government is not doing that job that she promised on the day they took the oath. When we welcomed them. And now I repeat, that last sentence I told you, Mr. Prime Minister, when I said these are your words that were commendable, we expect actions. Unfortunately, the works of the real ones you promised are still gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34396	Thank you. And yet again, you have sinned a little bit about the Rules of Procedure, you have replicated, you have responded to the replica of your colleague Buric, and in principle you have polluted with the prime minister. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go, Prime Minister. ... Yes, to vote on behalf of the speaker from the pay phone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34397	It's a little cynical that you're talking to me, Mr. Prime Minister, because that's not how you treat me at all, that's the cynicism that you're talking about, and it's not necessary in the modern sense of words to be as wise as you said, but it's necessary to be bold and despise all norms, it's a quality of cynicism. You're terribly contradictory, you said at the beginning of your speech that only one minister has so far been quoted as saying, "He left the government because of the high criteria set, and the others have gone to the gain of circumstances." Now you've said three times that Minister Ostojic has been removed, three times you've said that. Minister Ostojic left, we talked, and I said, so he resigned, we talked, and it was burdening the government, so decide. It's a terrible contradiction and you realize how complicated it is for me to be talking here and there not to be wrong, you talk for five minutes and make 20 mistakes, and what I'm trying to tell you now because I'm warning you of these mistakes, because you're putting us on the wallpaper. So is he being removed or not? You're talking about a stillborn, Plan 21. First, that's a terrible word. Secondly, this is not it, this problem was born, it was born by Croatian voters. He can be successful or unsuccessful. The infant is ugly and it is ultimately completely incorrect. You called me for mistakes and for inaccuracy. Perpetum of the mobile, you say we're political, you know what the perpetum of the mobile means? It's a compliment, so we invented something that has internal energy to keep moving, so I couldn't get a bigger compliment than you from your written speech in which you couldn't even criticize us in the right way. The government's failure to function, the state's functioning, if the economy grows, that's another issue. The order is higher and the state is stricter than ever. You can say that the economy doesn't grow, but that the state doesn't work, and that's where we won't agree, because the state works. You're saying that cynicism requires, it takes wisdom, in classical philosophy kinicos, Greek I think it means like a dog, so it's as bold as a dog, but in terms of being honest. Diogenes said, "Other dogs bite to bite you, and I bite you to warn you.". We may be that kind of cynic in the classical sense of philosophy, but in a modern sense, we're not. Your performance reminds me of cynicism. Local elections and referendum, please say that you were not against a separate vote for the European Parliament but that you were in favour of their joint holding with local elections, so it is actually very important for you to be held together with local elections, it is not a matter of saving. So your primary goal was to hold European elections together with local elections. I'm sorry, but that's pointless. I thought that you wanted special, so you wanted together to save, because there can't be a single political goal that would justify your position and that would justify holding the elections separately. It's completely pointless, all the mistakes you've made in the meantime. And I'm going to warn you about them, and you don't have to call me sir because you obviously don't think that way about me. The whole series of epithets was there, but I don't feel offended, I think you're saying it freely let the Croatian public hear it. So, the European referendum, no one has accused you of being against him but that you were against him on a date, on a date, you can get it out of context as much as you want, and only then, because you were against the referendum, means to join the EU without a referendum. It's basic logic, so I think of course we couldn't accuse you of that. You attacked us that we wanted to organise a referendum too quickly, you were the midwives, you simply needed to explain to people after 10 years of EU negotiations. And we've been fighting for about three weeks, so do you really think someone will believe that these three weeks have any significance in the state of the nation's spirit? And finally, let me be allowed a few words off the subject for which you sought the party and spoke. HDZ with one motive to be heard, so everyone tries to push their way through. You esteemed colleague Vuksic here said this is the auto goal. Since we don't hire you for the PR and public relations, leave that assessment to us. As far as the rate is concerned, you said you weren't looking at the contribution. I don't think they saw him on HTV or HRT. I watched him, and in that regard, no one is attacking me or the government in any single word, not the HDZ, not anyone, not any of my ministers, not anything we've done. In this regard, it is disputed for me that the person who had previously had a chauvinist outburst, I am completely clear and understandably got the space to continue his savagery in Croatian television. I don't change on television, and I wasn't as active as you were when the HRT director was elected and I never spoke to him, except once in the presence of Minister Andre Zlatar Violić, I will never and will never be with him or other people with whom I can be in contact with interest, nor my associates. What the principal did was their business. They've changed people, so we know that on HRT, people from basic work come for journal editors, and for the most complex political analyses they'll be there for a short time and disappear. It has nothing to do with HDZ and SDP, it's just chaos, chaos. And I have a lot to say and I will always speak publicly when I am provoked by human indifference, amateurism, and dangerous behavior. So no one has criticized us, no political engineering is involved, it's about protecting the nation's simple spirit and those who find it funny, who smile at it, who look forward to it, and who have triggered that filthy flood of their mutilated, unwitting statements in Split, thank you Marine because I have already forgotten it lightly, let them feel responsible. Maybe that's why they don't have the cheeks here to sit down and face me and others. And that's the question of morality in politics. Here it is, if this is a blasphemy, deny something of what I said. You asked for a replica and in advance to tell you that I will not answer your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34398	Thank you. We have reported two replicas, Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34399	That's what he gave me, I don't need to grade it, it'll evaluate it as you say voters. As far as Croatian television is concerned, I was also talking about chaos, I was talking about chaos on Croatian television, and I said I didn't watch the show and I can't assess the content of the show. I was talking about what happened in those cases, and I dared if there was a hate speech there that was supposed to respond to the host or interrupt the show or apologize to the viewers, I spoke very clearly about it. In which way I took part in the selection of the principal, it is mostly known by colleagues and your colleagues from your club, or from the Kukuriku Coalition. As far as contradictions are concerned, you are replacing ministers in such a way as to show the public that they themselves have left. It's not contradictory, I'm sorry. You're always wanted by them for the hour until you order them when they make the press conference and to withdraw either because of the disease or withdraw because of some other circumstances I've said. The second thing you can say now is, you said this morning, or this afternoon when it was that we were a party that opposed the European elections on a special date. We are here, there is also written down that we are in favour of holding elections together, local and Euro Parliament for the sake of savings we have said. We'd like to, we don't need to emphasize it a hundred times just for saving because we think because you taught us to have a little money that we need to save. And the second one today you said we were against the EU referendum, it says here's the transcript they brought me, now if they're writing wrong I don't know. We were not against the EU referendum. So I don't think you've fixed anything of mine except for an increase in the amount of vanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34400	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34401	I'm sorry, but this just doesn't work out like this. I have to answer that. How? Where'd you get the idea to charge you with being against maintenance, wait a minute. So one thing is there's a context that's very clear. So you're accusing us of telling you that you're against holding a referendum at all. I'm sorry, but no one believes that. So no one believes in what I'm saying. You can pretend to be ignorant as you pretend to be ignorant about the entire HRT. So you're for joining the election for saving. And I'm in favour of holding elections, of discussing it, of parties proposing their programmes, of representing citizens and of people who will that day. Please, gentlemen! And that people who will be working on election committees on that day and therefore in polling stations will earn their 250 kuna and spend it and pay for it in the VAT state. They're your voters, too. However, there will be plenty of your voters among them because you have now. So what you're saying is wrong. Yes, it's a cost to the state but it's good for society and that people will make that money. Someone would say a little more freely that it's a certain kind of public work, that intellectual public works that the whole nation is involved in and stop selling that story of savings. That's not what you're saving yourself on. There is no saving in the development of democracy. And you're finally saying you weren't watching. Now I'm going to tell you that I think you're a non-serious man because if you two days after this scandalous event and you're constantly carrying a laptop or an i-pad with you, you haven't looked at the HrT log 3 website that's being listed within hours of the broadcast, then you're actually fucking lively for all of this. And I can't imagine a serious politician, a humanist, a citizen who, after all, showed no interest in looking at it and telling the devil. This is okay or this is terrible. And yet you come here and give advice. So much for who's giving the advice. My advice may be guilty, but I'm getting ready for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34402	Thank you. And next replica Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Milanovic's logic is next. Yesterday, you attacked Croatian radio, called the press, called the editors of the third journal, and today three editors were removed on HRT. You're the Prime Minister, you're the head of the executive. Your word is not the same as the word of our colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, and when you say something, it has its weight. I do not remember that almost in Croatia it happened that after calling on the prime minister to discipline the HRT so quickly after the emergency procedure three people were removed. And this decision will have to admit it whether or not to have far-reaching consequences on freedom of media and speech in the Republic of Croatia because now journalists will want or will not apply autocensorship, I will not say that the prime minister would not call me because then my director or my editor will replace me. I don't know if you're aware of what you've done. You've scored yourself a goal, but as you do on a daily basis, you probably don't understand it this time. And what we understand is that you want to control Croatian television. You showed that when you changed the law, when the principal was no longer elected by consensus as he was until then. The majority chose him, this director today is not as politically strong as he was before, you know it very well and I expect the next shift, I expect further attacks on journalists, on freedom of speech in Croatia, that is what characterized the rule of Bolsheviks, the rule of the communists in the former Yugoslavia, in the former Socialist Republic you continue the same way and we will talk about it as much as it bothers you and as much as you put it in the context of the past. These methods you use are really Bolshevik methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34404	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, the Prime Minister here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34405	Your problem is that you go relatively tubed and decent and you get completely lost and wet on your way to the end. So, normally, you're on your way, and I'm doing you again, and I end up at the Bolsheviks. You know very well that these Bolsheviks put my grandmother in prison in Senj in 45 years and if someone hadn't pulled her out today, he probably wouldn't be alive. Don't play with those things. Please! Not to use any uglier word. You're saying the principal isn't politically strong. Oh, come on, the politically powerful director of HRT, if he wasn't chosen by consensus. I'll remind you because it reminded me at one point that your senior colleague Vladimir Seks was wrong when we insisted that the president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, otherwise the law that the Constitutional Court completely disintegrated because he unconstitutionally chose by a two-thirds majority. And to this, Vlado Shex, who has some experience, told me the thing that is clearly two-thirds majority is explicitly defined by the Croatian Constitution, the qualified majority is explicitly defined by the Croatian Constitution. The rule is a simple majority and there is no deviation from it unless the Constitution changes. So, even if we wanted to enable that deadlock, we wouldn't have chosen anyone like we didn't choose a constitutional judge to be elected by the two-thirds majority, and we're late because of the non-agreement we can't do it against the Constitution. When we decided that constitutional judges were elected by a two-thirds majority in our House, we changed the Constitution. Look at the Constitution, so it's a constitutional rule, a simple majority, for the Parliament to function, and the two-thirds is qualified says the Constitution only where it's prescribed. This isn't, this isn't. And otherwise when you say my word, when you say that because of my word, someone's changed. Someone who took part in a show whose content you have no objection to, then that's my word. I have no idea who the editor is. However, my word is not a whisper, and it is not a scheme that has been changed before and which they used to leave. And when you say the press will I'm not gonna say, the main sin on me, the mistake in this case is exactly what they didn't say, they didn't say anything, they kept quiet. [[Intruder: Time.]] And now they've been silent. [[Intruder: Time.]] So instead of reacting that they broke up that they didn't call, they kept quiet and it was a mistake of silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34406	Prime Minister's time, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34407	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34408	Here you go, pal Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34409	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34410	Yeah, yeah, say, you know the procedure for hurting the Rules of Procedure, say the article and what.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34411	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34412	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34413	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34414	Col. Jandrokovic has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure but you have received a warning, you have not reported for this session is not valid, it is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34415	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34416	Don't pollemize with me, don't pollemize with me. My colleague Jandrokovic, please sit down. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please, my colleague, let's not abuse the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing an individual debate. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34417	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Lorencin. First of all, I would like to welcome you both personally and as chairman of the Tourism Committee to your new duty. I am sorry that you experience your first encounter with the Croatian Assembly this way because it is not respectable elementally or what you came for or what is expected of you. I will try in this sense as chairman of the parent board, a committee that has worked very well with your predecessor to indicate what our expectations are of you and your portfolio so that development tourism policy or better said development tourism policies develop further to the benefit of Croatian tourism and Croatian societies. It seems to me that the first and basic task is for you to realize that you are not only the Minister of Tourism, that the Prime Minister who sits next to you is also the Minister of Tourism, that all of your colleagues in the Government are Ministers of Tourism, and that you are, in fact, co-ordinator of tourism ministers, because there is almost no minister in the Croatian Government who is unable to make a decision that reflects in one way or another on the present and future of Croatian tourism, from culture, traffic, education if you want health. It is necessary to raise awareness of all colleagues in the government that they are making decisions reflected in tourism. On the other hand, there is one obligation you may not have hoped for because you did not participate in this House, which is to defend the proposal of the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia, but it is the first strategic document of Croatian tourism in the history of our country that will at all be discussed in this House because all of the above have been adopted at the level of the ministries, the Ministry of Tourism or someone who was in charge of tourism at that time. We have initiated from the Committee on Tourism to discuss here to strengthen it and practically raise that document to the level of the law, to make it visible and in some way binding to everyone, to know what the strategic goal is and to invite all the actors in tourism to lay down their tactics, starting with the fact that every citizen of the Republic is actually a tourist worker, just because we are all potential tourist informers when we go out on the road. You have a great challenge to address the problem of tourist land. With your colleague Doncic, you will have to dissipate the Gordian knot of adopting a new Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports where I would like you to in some way encourage your colleague to understand how important this is not only for his but essential and for your portfolio. On the other hand, you are also waiting for some tasks in organizational changes. I warmly hope that from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison, the Board of Nautical Tourism will move to your ministry because it belongs there, but that the next new Law on Maritime Goodness in this ministry will set up a new administration that will oversee the use of maritime goods. And it is not necessary to be in Zagreb. Furthermore, we are awaiting the adoption of a new Law on the Croatian Tourist Community. You as the President of the Tourist Council in this sense bear a very high level of responsibility for the changes that have been launched continue in the right direction. In the long term, the Croatian Tourist Board stops being a distributor of information materials, and much more becomes the one who manages the tourist destination or tourist destinations, especially in partnership with tourist agencies. We also have a obligation to adopt a new Act on Services in Tourism. Many, therefore, legislative projects that you will defend here before us and which I hope will bring new solutions that will allow everything that the strategy has recognised as a deficit to be easy, but surely we are developing to make tourism even more successful. Furthermore, it is a question of using former non-perspective military assets for tourist purposes, it is a question of new greenfield investments, it is a question that has something to do with what you have been doing so far, and this is a question of developing strategic or strategic in Croatian tourism. It's a matter of privatising tourism companies that are still in the state portfolio, so a lot of things. I want to be honest with you both from the heart and on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Tourism, and I just want to tell you that all the decisions we've made so far have been made by consensus, except for two around which only once there were two abstentions, so that we here in the Committee on Tourism have reached a very high level of consensus. I want you, too, Mr. Lorencin, to build in this sense good, quality, professional, cooperative relations in order to achieve as much of this synergy approach and effect as possible. I hope we'll host you on our committee soon. I wish you a lot of happiness, a lot of success, and I know, according to what you've been doing so far and that you've never actually come into a soft and warm chair than you've always been to actually go to work all day, I know that you're going to get maybe more than you're expected to do right now. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34418	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34419	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, future ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So in my debate, I will set up several thesis and try to answer them, and first of all, the facts why we are even discussing this item of the agenda today, what is the current moment of Croatian tourism and what is projected tourism in the next period. I think it's all about the current minister. Well, first of all, my thesis is, which is why we are even discussing this topic today, if it hadn't been for Mr. Cain's candidacy on the SDP list, Veljko Ostojic would have been Minister of Tourism today, and we wouldn't have discussed this agenda in the Parliament. As for the current moment, today is 19.3., in 10 days are Easter holidays, the pre-season begins, the first beginning of the larger arrival of foreign tourists should be said next. At this sensitive moment for Croatian tourism when the real tourist season starts this year with the pre-season somewhat earlier state of booking and situations on the market and on the ground in terms of preparing the tourist season is not promising. Such a move by the current government, the current government is a step back in achieving a successful tourist season. And the third thesis I set, with which I want to communicate, as regards the strategy which is said today, which is on the agenda but cannot be discussed, which says the current minister will not meet the goals of the previous one, which are very ambitiously set in the seven years of 2013-2020, to earn from tourism twice as much as in 2012. In the projected term of office of the new minister, it is intended to provide at least 3 billion euros in revenue from what we had in 2012 in order to achieve this objective of the strategy. So here's why I said the first one why I think we're even discussing it today. The fact is that IDS and SDP have split up in the Istrian county area without divergence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. at the level of government and coalition. The message that goes towards citizens is the alliance is not good on a small field in Istria, but it is good for all Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia. For the past 10 days we have been in some way not only parliamentary representatives, politicians, tourist workers, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have been hostage to these fights at the court of the Istrian mayor. It's one fact that appears amongst ordinary regiments. While one party leader yelled out of his possession, I need an expert, respected prime minister from his property, from Mark's square he yelled at me for political purposes. You're the one, Mr. Jacob, come here. This one said I'm not the one, I've got the other one, etc. So we finally got in one person and politically and professionally as the prime minister said in the second second second. What does it look like to ordinary citizens? The explanation is very simple, the big cracks in this coalition, we've already sent three, now and the fourth minister, there's a new three, now there's a fourth. The fact is that the call for elite chairs is still stronger than the possible interest of the Croatian man. As for the current moment, today is 19.3., I say in 10 days we have the beginning of the pre-season introduction into the tourist season. We hear from Mr. Jakovčić that all tourist workers are satisfied with the new minister. I've talked to a few of them. They're saying something else. They're worried. State of construction of new infrastructure, tourist infrastructure late. State in building public infrastructure roads, ports, waterways, drains will welcome us all with 19.5. That's where the local elections are. All local leaders have tried to show the people that they've been doing something in the past term. That's how we're going to get into this tourist season. I will not project what it means for our neighbours, for our competitors on the map of Europe. They can't wait for moments like this. The question is who is coordinating and what is done with both HTZ and the Ministry of Tourism in the past time when it was without a minister. I don't know. As far as the third objective of the Strategy is concerned, it has clearly set three goals, and they are the greatest burden to you, Mr Lorencin, because we really courageously claim that in 2020 we will achieve 14.3 billion revenues from tourism in the Republic of Croatia, that we will build 20,000 new beds, i.e. The keys, that we'll open 20,000 new jobs. It's a burden you'll have to bear in the next period. A colleague of Cain, along with his other colleague, Herak, at a press conference, found it to be science fiction, that it would happen at the moment that Blanca Vlasic skips a three-metre flyer, when Dinamo wins the champion's league. That's what my colleague Cain said to support you today. What are we supposed to think about? Should we take that as a matter of fact? Your burden is not easy, Mr. Minister, future minister. What happened on your back is gonna be hard for you to wear. Because let's consider the current situation, but also what we had in history. In 2003, we made 5 and a half billion in tourism. 2013 Seven, three. We've been growing by a billion and eight hundred in 10 years, and we say in seven years we're going to grow another seven billion. For what? These are the documents you get for your inheritance. I'd like to hear it. Here we vote on you. What do you think of this document? He's on the agenda of this session. Can we expect that we might have it in two readings, that you'll do your best because there's nebulosis there. A whole region of Kvarner in strategic, investment projects is covered by only a dozen projects. Everything was thrown into Istria and Dalmatia. One island like Rab from which I come is not mentioned in this letter and the only city like Poreč that has won everything that could be won in tourism. I see some colleagues from the SDP support this document. I don't agree with such a thesis. It's something you'd like to hear from you here today, you're not saying anything. The Prime Minister speaks of you instead, and we vote on you. So tell us something. Are you behind a document like this? If you can say anything at all, or when you're elected, maybe then. Here, I'll take that as well. Talk to us when you're elected. But it would be good to hear what you think about it. That's what you'll get in your inheritance. And it would be good to know what we're voting on. Is it enough that you're 42 years old to be an economist? We have people like that on the stock market as long as we want, but they weren't politically active and that's a fact. They didn't get a chance. Is that the most important moment in all of this? And everything you've done so far is worth it. Why not? But let's hear from you what your vision of tourism is in some medium-term period, if you stand in the positions of Veljko Ostojić who had to go say for the games at court or you'll change something. I think it would be useful to all of us and to make a contribution, a real contribution to this debate. Not ideology, not stories about some places and who said what, but really tourism and what it means for the Republic of Croatia. Because whatever we say Croatian tourism and agriculture are the future of this country. Of course, not demeaning all other industrial branches. But the development accent is set up like this, which says that we 50% of GDP in the next 7, 8 years will achieve from tourism clearly give you a role as a new minister but also a direction where Croatia should go. These are stories that interest the Croatian man, including fiscalisation and all that awaits them in the next few months. Because they need to survive, and I say people listen to stories a day that they don't care too much about which we think they're very interested. That's why I'd like to hear your opinion, so this doesn't stay at that level as my colleague Kai's science fiction said, and I don't personally conclude my conclusion that it would read as follows: when the MPs of the Kukuriku coalition agree and lead swim. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34420	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The replica was reported twice by a respected representative, Damir Cain, but for one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34421	Well, I'm glad to see that before that, Mr. Boric, Mr. Jandrokovic, unfortunately I wasn't here to follow my every spoken word. What does my candidacy have, Mr. Boric, I don't know about Ostojic or Ostojić leaving with me and the elections in Istria? I guess you all know that, just us in Istria just can't see it right now. Although Mr. Jakovic said he would not be in the same room with the prime minister, the prime minister showed this opportunity, however, by giving the IDS people a chance that there was nothing against the IDS, let alone Istria. But let me rephrase something else when I talk about tourism. In 2008, tourism in Croatia generates 7.4 billion euros in income according to CNB. 2012 6.8 billion, 7.8% less than in 2008. And that's when we raised the tourist income by 3.3%. And it most eloquently tells where Croatia is today. That Mr. Zoran Milanovic's government would take 4 years to restore tourism to the level of 2008. For 4 years, it will take the government to restore the economy to a level of 2008 before the crisis. For 4 years, it will take this government to restore industrial production to the level of 2008. It probably understands a lot of people here and outside this assembly. I'd like to be wrong, but it's about the same in one Italy, so it's in our neighbouring Slovenia, and I'm not counting any further. Where's Istria today? 50 people a day come to the Employment Service. Exports 27.7% lower than in 2011 and if there were no of these government investments at the moment, it would indeed have ended up in one collapse. Istria has always given far more to the state budget than it has been returning, for the first time what is returning from pensioners to investments, from health care to education is about as much as the citizens of Istria are paying into the state budget. This has never happened before until Mr. Zoran Milanovic arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34422	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34423	A colleague of Cain's would be best for you to determine where you are after all, after all, this year and a half, because we've seen a lot of what I've warned you about in the first place. I told you that what you're doing in Istria is what they call a set of bandits and that's how it's gonna end. You said you wouldn't. You are now the bearer of the i.e. candidate for mayor under the second flag and that's legitimate. Then you said about what I said, and that was at that press conference, that this strategy would happen at the time that Blanca Vlasic skipped 3 metres. That it's your sighting. You questioned it today and in your debate here, but you said you'd support that same new minister from that same party that you said everything I couldn't say again because it's so ugly. So maybe my thesis is my fault, I say what I feel and think, and I think it's pretty close and the most common man. And I said and I'll repeat that it wasn't your candidacy for Mayor Veljko Ostojic today would have been Minister of Tourism. And you can get out of it now whatever you want, but I'm saying it's the only truth to me. We can put everything else in the PR agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34424	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34425	The vis-a-vis these insults around the gangier set, they're all the ones who sold it to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. I was and I'm staying, and you're sitting in Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's chair. They're not set gangers, they're traitors, they're bastards, they're rudes!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34426	I'm sorry, but Reverend Cain deserves a warning. I hate to warn you. First of all, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, the second one spoke without permission, and no response was appropriate. Unfortunately, dear colleague Cain, you have been warned of breach of the Rules of Procedure and speech without permission. A new violation of the Rules of Procedure and a respected representative, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34427	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34428	Your Honor, we've already done all this. Do you have anything new?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34429	He disdains and insults and utters falsehood.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34430	We've done it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34431	He told the truth that I sat down as former prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34432	You didn't get the word either. Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Zoran Milanovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34433	You see what that's like when the rule of law works? Things work out right now. You deal intensively with relations in Istria. There's only one thing I can tell you about Istria that HDZ won't get anything there. You're from the 8th Election Unit, although I believe you don't know Istria, you're from Rab, I'm going to say something about Rab and tourism, but how do you understand yourself so well in Istria? I don't know. We're competing there, and somebody's gonna win. One side believes she will win, the other side believes she will win. And some harder words fell, but whoever it is will be good for Istria, and these are the people who love Istria and who will give it and who will be given it. And I think this way you're just doing a commercial for us. Someone's gonna win that election, it's not gonna be HDZ. In the strategy of tourism which is a document for discussion as in all strategies there are things that are still a wish, more or less realistic. Goals should be set ambitiously and this is done. I am asking you not to insinuate that the Rab is being bypassed because I Rab know very well both your fellow citizen and deputy minister of infrastructure, maritime affairs and like all people from small but successful cities very much wants to help their non'. We have to control that. So he can't do to his own, he has to do to everyone. And Rab still got before this last season a cliff which stood who knows why for years, it was either done or finished project documentation for the airport, i.e. for the runway landing-summer. And otherwise on Rab which is a phenomenal island of valuable people and great potentials especially in... there is so much for me to lift the quality of the service price that no great projects there, in my opinion, are crucial because the island is small and like a jewel. It has a good hotel company, Imperial, which is a state-owned company and where management has shown that from one losing company that has been hosting our exiles, business policy can take a step at a pace and need new investments. So in the strategy of tourism, we cannot exactly say where it will be invested, that European funds will be for those who know. And the people on Rab prove they know, it's totally undeniable, so a better relationship. Secondly, if you want to worry about raping, which will have to work hard in 5, 6 or 7 years to compete in ferry traffic with Italians, Danes and whoever is here on our market, or on the European market, wants to compete. So it will take more competition, there will be no more state and ministry to protect them, and that is, this company is me successful, but it is focused only on the island, so either it will have to spread to the entire Adriatic or it will have to accept that there is competition. I wouldn't want it to be that way, which is just cheaper and that might be stronger than Jadrolinia. It's all business, so the owner and the government are really treating me rightly, even sometimes and too correctly compared to neglecting others, but there's not too much correct. So, as far as tourism on Rab is concerned, I'd like to appeal, in fact, and I don't know how much work it is and exactly what bodies our bodies are. We have fantastic resources in these island fields that were abandoned 40, 50 years ago when people went to tourism and when they started doing well, but not living richly and now live well and there is a gold mine in those fields and in the products. And here I see the work of the state and the Ministry of Tourism and Agriculture in products for which every slightly more wealthy Westerner would pay four times the price of what he finds in, the goods he finds in the supermarkets of large trade chains. It's got Rabi and some more of our islands, it's gold. And that 10,000 people on Rab can live great, now they live well. And there's no big party policy here. Of course, we'll go to the election and we believe we've been good and we'll get trust still. You were the mayor, weren't you? I'm sorry, I didn't mean, well, it's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34434	Thank you very much. We have a replica of one, respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34435	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. I can agree with the work of your exposé on the island of Rab, and I accept the part. However, it is indisputable, I have read the whole strategy, the island of Rab is not mentioned in any single form, not on any page of that document, and so I asked the minister to tell us whether he is willing to accept maybe the fact that the strategy goes into two readings, that we can supplement something because this is how we get a document that we can only express our opinion and vote for the same or not. I think it's important for Kvarner to enter many more projects, strategic projects. The Strategic Investments Act is now being announced, etc. Why shouldn't it also be a basis for Kvarner to be able to ask for funds from European funds and everything else, so that we can develop tourism as we think it is good. And we have very large tourist areas which can also be covered by the provisions of that strategy. That's what I wanted to hear from the minister, but unfortunately I'm saying whether he's allowed or not, since then. I think that would be very easy to agree on, and it would be good if we had the Croatian tourism strategy in two readings because it is still an important document, with an arrangement for a period of 7 and 12 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34436	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34437	So once again I say the strategy will not be crucial in obtaining European funds and represents an important document, and one of the reasons perhaps why the island of Rab is not mentioned because it is an island that is already relatively high, which is small, which is a diamond that needs to be crushed and on which to work to raise quality and price, it should be made expensive and Rab can. Therefore, Rab is not a place to help this kind of thing, but all these other projects that I've been talking about from the state's concern as a good owner for the Imperial finished company, up to the ferry link, raping, possible runways on the island of Rab over there by Misnjak, as some kind of air lift for vegetables and fruit in the season that is expensive, I think it's simply high-quality goods that are few in Europe. These are all things that can enable the rabbis to be very rich. Now, do they need any big megaprojects, some big new hotel company? In my opinion, not necessarily, but what exists, so also Suhu puntu, Imperial and that old hotel and Padova rise to 5 stars and that's it. And of that people can live on, I won't say like in Austria, but not significantly worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34438	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative of Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34439	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I can't talk about the new minister because I don't know the gentleman, and I'm not familiar with his program, so I can't even vote for the minister and I don't even know the reasons for the resignation of the previous minister. But in a situation where everything that should not fall, from social gross products, investment, personal consumption, standards of Croatian citizens and employment, and everything that does not need to grow from the number of unemployment, unemployment, inflation, cost of living and tax. Unfortunately, something else is growing that should never grow in this situation, which is unfortunately your verbal aggression and daily production of the internal enemy. It is no longer just opposition, nor opposition representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it became trade unions, employers, teachers, teachers, nurses, civil society and media. You call everyone and everyone and accuse them of incomprehension and misunderstanding both of the general social situation and of you personally. After your presentations today, I must ask you, have you ever wondered if you understand the situation we are in right now, do you realize at all what you should be doing and do you even understand yourself? Because, in all likelihood, if you understood yourself, you wouldn't have to explain again to the Croatian public what you thought and convince the same public that they didn't understand anything and accuse some social groups of misunderstandings of the Croatian set and the path that you should draw us out of the crisis with your pretentious phraseology. In this difficult time when we need cooperation and the promotion of all human potentials in our society in order to stop and reverse negative economic and social trends, you encourage intolerance and ideological polarisation, hopelessness and fear as if all you care about is this. In such an atmosphere, it seems that you are the only one who is doing well, and apparently you are running out of new enemies in that production, so you will become if you are not yourself the greatest enemy. The freshest example of your mildly spoken wandering is the recent statements about our past, i.e. about the Homeland War that caused the great revolution, I dare say to the entire Croatian public. You who rarely point out that a lawyer and a legalist obviously forget that this high house is another 2000. For years, he unanimously adopted the Declaration of Homeland War, which unequivocally confirmed to us that the Republic of Croatia had committed an armed aggression by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA with an armed rebellion of the works of the Serb population in Croatia. The values of the Homeland War are uniformly accepted by the entire Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and such a character of the Homeland War has been confirmed by the relevant world institutions and four months ago, by a justifying verdict by our generals Gotovina and Markac. Remember what you said then, something like 3 to 2. The Homeland War Declaration obliges all officials and state bodies of the Republic of Croatia to protect the fundamental values and dignity of the Homeland War as a provision for our civilization future, to safeguard the moral dignity of the Croatian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to protect the honor, reputation and dignity of all the defenders and citizens of the Republic who participated in the defence of the country. Your simplest words about the character of the Homeland War that you mean civil war was waged in Croatia, injury is an honor, reputation and dignity of all defenders and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this is not the first time. Just remember this summer, which was at an international socialist in Rijeka when you were also talking about civil war. A great writer of the left edifice wrote a voluntary book that is known to you as a great erudite to my reckoning with them. While you delivered a 14-minute show yesterday, my attempt to deal with everyone. The only thing left for you after that and what is likely to happen will be your next performance of the unpredictable length of the duration that will surely be called my reckoning with itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34440	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First replica and respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Babic, you were saying something about verbal aggression, but I'd say this is already a matter of psychic violence, psychic violence of doctoring. We had to listen here a little while ago because the prime minister often questioned our IQ, so he thinks we're not very intelligent we should explain. So here we were exposed to something that we heard that needed a great constitutional expert, Mr. Vladimir Seks, to ask who then said something was written in the Constitution. I think that the prime minister who was then president of the SDP club and the president of the SDP should know what it says in the Constitution because it should be known to every Croatian citizen and not to say a freshman at the Faculty of Law and not a graduate lawyer that the Croatian Constitution says decisions are being made in the Croatian Parliament, so that the unconstitutional proposal of the SDP club president at the time should not have been consulted by large constitutional experts. Then we listened to the doctorate what had to be done so that the judges of the Constitutional Court could choose and choose the two-thirds majority. I assure you and the Prime Minister does not know that we MPs in the Croatian Parliament know what the Constitution says, so there were also stories about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was then swept by the Constitutional Court. It's true. The Constitutional Court has challenged the official's duty to issue a statement of permission to see into its bank accounts and has challenged the SDP's proposal. I personally don't know why it bothers someone like that. If anything turns out to be true. If property can be checked in real estate registers in land books, why would it bother someone and why would someone be ashamed to check it out in banks mainly because we often had big complaints about the banking secret from the SDP ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34442	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34443	Dear colleague Lovrin, I have nothing to say to you but I have already confirmed what I was talking about my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34444	New replica and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Babiæ in my neighborhood and in your neighborhood, people tend to say that the greatest patience is with professional fishermen. I've been dealing with this for 20 years. So people in our area say that the most patient people are professional fishermen, I've been playing this game for 20 years, and really people who know me well say that I'm quite patient as a guy. But really, what is happening today in the Croatian Parliament, which you finally gave the final note about, is something that has astounded me as a man. There's 150 of us and I don't know how many who has a very high salary on the cost of Croatian citizens and today we had the agenda point of voting the trust of the minister of tourism, Mr. Darko Lorencin. [[Adversity President: You speak in a microphone for both the public and the recording and the other is important.]] We've been discussing everything and everything all afternoon. And the culmination came from someone I least expected as an agent because you know very well that we have very polite and correct collegiate relations. So I'm a former defender and my position on the Homeland War doesn't need to be put in the context of any story at all, but I really don't see any links between the Homeland War Declaration, the Ministry of Tourism and the vote of confidence of the Minister of Tourism. This kind of abuse of a political hearing assembly that we've been witnessing all afternoon is something incredible. Something amazing. There's just no words. I don't know how everyone in this assembly is not ashamed of us in front of Croatian citizens. We have laws ahead of us that we have to vote on, we're dealing with someone in the story, we'll be interrupted for two cycles of choice. 31.6. We should have that... law passed, I mean this is a real horror.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34446	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a well-respected colleague of Baranovic, the truth is that we have a proper relationship, and I'm glad, that's what I'd like to care for in the future, I don't like you to give me a lecture and that you're telling me what I'm going to talk about in the Croatian Parliament. I come from an electoral unit that hurts a lot, and I wouldn't say it, I believe that you've been following all these events these days, and I said in my statement that I can't talk about the new tourism minister because I don't know the gentleman or I'm familiar with his program, but I know that anything that goes wrong can't end well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34448	Thank you, too. Finally, the final word of the promoter, the respected Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34449	You don't want a debate on the subject, you don't want a debate on tourism, you don't want a debate on a tourism minister who's a great candidate. You want a fight, a noise, mutual accusations, and we can't do anything about it, we can just fold our shoulders. Regardless of this situation and practice is completely opposed to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, most in parliament do not question it and allows you to abuse parliamentary institutions and parliamentary procedures. And democracy is a procedure, we can agree on this procedure whether we will have ministers before their appointment, or before giving confidence to the entire government or to certain ministers in cases like this and the previous three when the minister changes during the term of office, give the opportunity and the obligation to turn to committees as in many countries as in the American Congress, like in Slovenia these days or we will go to a variant that we are not likely to go to but it exists that the Chancellor himself appoints ministers who do not go to Bundestag at all but simply appoint them. So it's all a matter of procedure, but if we agree on a procedure, then we have to follow that procedure. Shall we agree that once a year, the Prime Minister, independently of the draft budget, which is an important moment in Parliament's work, reports the state of the state of the country, not a state of the nation, it's a bit pretentious, about the state of the country, and by what procedural rules that it doesn't turn into a three-day noise, but to set clear rules that limit me, but also you, too, that I can't and that there's no need to go out for a pay phone 20 times. But I'm going to go out and react to Mrs. Anne Lovrin's statement that she's talking here about 2/3 of the majority and the Constitution that even freshmans in medicine operate on their hearts. They don't know that, Mrs. Lovrine's freshman colleagues, because it's simply a matter of political and social agreement. The constitution is not a classical legal norm, the constitution is a political norm and the matter is as you agree. I've read a lot of constitutions, especially from Eastern Europe, differing, there's no same model anywhere. It's just that a man is very surprised and deepened when he sees the Lithuanians, the Latvians, the Estonians, the Poles, the Italians, doing so, they're different. But now that you're telling me that you're watching this, I didn't know it as the president of the parliamentary opposition but I asked Mr. Shakespeare and I say it here openly, or I didn't ask him, but he said it, I should be ashamed of it? Well, I don't think so, I mean, I have some legal schools and some knowledge, but I missed it, you know. It's actually a very logical thing, but of course you were born with that knowledge, it was simply umbilically connected to you and they never cut it off for you. I'm not as smart as you, I sometimes find out some things along the way, but then I'm amazingly surprised that after all this, in the composition of this Parliament, you insisted on this Croatian Parliament and yelled that decisions are made by a 2/3 majority, if you know the Croatian Constitution so well. That's what you were involved in, maybe you didn't get ahead of yourself. So you know that, you were born with that knowledge, unlike the rest of us who have to get it, it's hard, I think it's hard to learn your whole life. I wasn't born to know everything, I think I'm better from year to year. But you knew that and you admit it here, and you participated in requests that you know are strictly unconstitutional. What's it called? What's it called when you take a pension from the council and you stay here? It's called wrong, I call it wrong, it's wrong. And an esteemed colleague who calls me for the sake of the Homeland War and my nonexistent statements about the Homeland War after which I suppose you should stop because I'm saying that I didn't say that. What you wanted to understand was another thing, so my attitude isn't like that. But you're still making noise, tension, and you're accusing the SDP, the HNS and your partners of it, you're not enough full granite evidence who started that hack, with whom the intention, who smiled, who is not here today, with whom you intend to do it, that's not an argument for you. For me, as a civilized citizen of Croatia and Europe, they are. For me, Homeland War is the central event of a newer Croatian history, our pride, but I never flaunt and speak plain man, Croatian people, you know with awe I approach these statements which you so easily know how to bark as if you are at least a new messiah. Many here love, especially from our political competition, to talk about a small man and about what an ordinary man wants and expects. I think I know that, but I don't dare be as arrogant as you do that I keep saying it and repeating it all the time and I'm never going to do it. I think that the Homeland War, not to think, was an aggressive war, Croatia was attacked, almost destroyed and barely defended, Croatian citizens mostly rebelled against the Serbian nationality of ethnicity but also Croatian citizens. They took a third of the territory, they had JNA's help without which they couldn't do anything. After the Sarajevo truce and the withdrawal of JNA, mainly domestics remained with the help of JNA still hidden. Call it what you want. I call it rape of my country, an attack on Croatia that was to be freed by all means and ultimately by weapons. But I won't let you manipulate human feelings, facts because people think differently. We're not a party from a party dogma. We question each other, and your speeches sometimes sound like what they told me to speak and refer to the participants of the party school in Kumrovec. So there's no dilemma, all dogma. We don't have a dogma, it's all a free thought, and we're trying to find ourselves in it, and we expect people to think that. But look, this is a harder way than EU membership is harder, because the Rape navigation will come from competition, and I'm sure it will adapt to it, that it will be strong. But without competition, there are no ideas, no creations and no thoughts, and you are referring to the declarations of an assembly that is probably correct, or corresponds to what I think. But the declarations change, and people's feelings remain. I won't interpret them here as some kind of prophet because I'm not, but let people think, let people make mistakes. Give them a chance to work. Don't hold onto the laps. When I attack not the media but a concrete event, and it's an event that has nothing to do with the treatment of me and my government, but with fundamental social values, then I do it out of the deepest beliefs that I've come into politics from. And I consider people who behave differently as my political opponents, not my enemies. Because I don't think they're doing well, and especially if I'm aware they're doing it with insidious intent. And they don't have any others and they don't have a theme that I can articulate. And that's why I should be liquefied, because in fact, you're doing a lot of political work for us. I see it that way, because Croatian society is so demographic that such stories just don't go away anymore. We can fall, we're not meant for eternal greatness. But I'm just supposed to, we should actually cheer up to continue with this kind of behavior and encourage impatience in this way. I'll tell you something else. In the Kistans, I said the children attacked the children. None of you mentioned it today. So, two of these minors are sons of members of the SDP, of the SDP, I'm openly telling you that here in Kistanja. The poor from Kosovo. By the way, one of the first things that we did after the election was that we went to get these unfortunate people in the middle of Bukovica to do the legposts and asphalt in that village where they choked in the mud and in the dust. See what that looks like? And I don't expect them to vote for me. Let them vote for HDZ, anyway. So people are unhappy, out of work, joining political parties essentially from despair to one another to the other. And then they gather and attack Orthodox deities. And that should be condemned. That's terrible, that's terrible. Where Milorad spoke in the vicinity and Krka as an employee of the princess Nemanjac and one of the largest Shubićs with a romantic tower and Orthodox Byzantine remains and Visovac a few kilometers away. The people of Europe will rush to see it. So we have to stand up to it, people. What happened on TV happened. I had nothing to do with it, I don't know. They changed editors for the hundredth time. They change them every day. No one's gonna be out of a job. I don't want to be responsible for it, but it's not my right to talk about it like my colleague Pupovci said. It's my duty. And I see politics as duty and mission, not a fanatical, dogmatic mission, but a mission to change society. And my mandate and my conflicts with everyone, with Zogovic, Gilas, you have alluded to that part of my political capital that I am spending and I will spend every day changing things. The popularity comes and goes, but you have to have that foundation, that granite you're standing on. He just needs to be a little above ground and then you're on the right track. But what am I saying? I ask you to support this Mr. Dark Lorencin who has been sitting here for hours today, who, based on his resume, is a great candidate for the Minister of Tourism, but brilliant as being sent. It's not from the hotel business, but it might be good this time for a change if it wasn't. One previous minister was not from tourism at all. So, a man who understands these things, who is educated. There are no such ones as he was on the labour market, nor has he progressed through politics, nor has the school, knowledge of language and entrepreneurship given him politics, but has been so raised and thus formed. And he's a colleague of mine, and I'm glad I'm gonna work with him. And I'm just a little older than him. And we'll make it out of this country as long as we can. We will be strong and we will be persistent in that at least among the countries that have passed communism and Bolshevism, which I am not talking about in this House, but you gentlemen, to be the best among them. And I don't like that kind of stuff being thrown in here and especially when it comes from people who know what they're saying and who know that my family members have been through traumas that directly affect me. But I've never shared people here. For me too, everyone who is a Croatian citizen is a Croatian citizen. And my colleagues who are Serbs in the government today say the model candidate has 30%, and only 5% of the population are my colleagues. I don't know how many there are. For some, I don't even know they're Serbs. And when at your meetings until yesterday, the champions are partying about Milanovici, Jovanovic, don't tell me you don't feel as good as your colleague used to talk about Rank, Zoran, Janko, so Veljak. It's an illusion of the rats, of the obstetricians. Is that healthy behavior? Now, for the end of the day, if I don't scold you, you can explain it to your colleagues in the General Party. Because Pučka Party is a heterogeneous group in which people like Barroso are in whose country, although not during his term but he has no problems with it, legalized same-sex marriage is Portugal, Angela Merkel and others who are real European statesmen. For their competitors from my sister's parties, I will cheer, but I respect them. And there are different people and I tell you to look up to these people. Of course, not all of you. Because it's good for Europe. Europe is between today and Europe, will there be Europe of citizens and Europe of banks? We will fight for Europe citizens but we will also fight for our Croatian bank in terms of banks and pockets. One of the best ways to do that is tourism. Istria's going well, others will follow. So we will educate people, we will adapt to this, and I believe that in 10, 15 years we will be champions and that Croatia will be a completely different country with whoever is in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34450	Thank you, too. Four replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. First replica and respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34451	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I didn't ask or object to you because you don't know what the Japanese or Finnish Constitution says, I don't care. I ask you, should you be ashamed that, as president of the club, the strongest then opposition parties did not know how the Croatian Constitution prescribed that decisions be made in the Croatian Parliament? You should be ashamed, yes, you should be ashamed. This is what a freshman at the Faculty of Law knows because the Faculty of Constitutional Rights reads the Croatian Constitution. Furthermore, the fact that it cannot be chosen by a two-thirds majority is that I am in the debate on the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest when you suggested it when I spoke about the law. Next, you're lying, I don't know whether or not I suggested a two-thirds majority election. It's just not true. Take the phonograms and my colleagues from the club were angry with me when I mentioned it in the replica, and I told them that I couldn't speak any different from what the Croatian Constitution said. Well, then I think that instead of reading our files, you're performing a constant argument of ad-hominem and you're complaining about your pension to me all the time, and you were just talking about your very deputy minister from Rab, a very commendable word. I didn't hear you mention the gentleman took a parliamentary pension, and now he's sitting in the deputy minister's chair. You didn't mention that your candidate for the mayor of Istria also took that parliamentary pension. We can question morality or immorality, but then the measure for all must be equal. And how credible you are now. Ten minutes ago you spoke very highly of a man who did the same thing, and to me instead of addressing the arguments on the matter you always reach out to what's in my file.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34452	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34453	Your position is hopeless and I feel for you. You're trying to balance your guilt and compare yourself with others. Everyone's responsible for themselves. Damir, I know for him that it's the only thing he has and that he's 20 years in politics and that after that he can only live. But they'll ask him that and it won't be easy to answer. He's in that position. What kind of position are you in that you took a pension for one day, I don't know. As I don't even know what year of law school the first year of law school is, that's when I was a second year in college. And in the second year, they're not freshmen, unless I know Croatian and basics. So much for that. And as for this other one, look, we're not going to agree on some things ever, but I'm fascinated by your tenacity to just compare yourself with people you can't compare with. And it's an expensive policy. I'd be happy to speak here for hours, although you'd like to, and it was objected by one of your colleagues, to do this in a hurry. Because we haven't talked like this before, it's not that simple it would just pass. Why? Because you don't want to hear the voice because it bothers you, because it's about you. A colleague, Antesic, came to the government because I invited him as deputy minister, I invited him. He took the peace money when he took it. And I invited him to the government. He was not on the list, he was the mayor of Rab and he was by no standard a higher political echelon. So, I wanted it to be someone from Kvarner, I knew him, that's my suggestion. I may have been reckless not to ask him that specifically, but he was the second or third echelon. He's already had one parliamentary term, he's got the terms of retirement, and he's done what a lot of people have done. And we didn't push him into the front lines. He's a politician and an operative. You, you're a political first leaguer. You're a member of the presidency, Minister of Justice, you're a person who's full of this House. So it's not the same. You knew what you were doing and you did it you know when? So two weeks before the law was abolished. Antešić, and here we are you do not want to hear, Antešić almost a year ago. The man had no idea it was going to happen. And that's all the difference. It's heaven and earth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34454	Thank you. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34455	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government if I understand correctly you said we can do as in Germany in Bundestag suggest that you appoint yourself as the Chancellor of the Prime Minister. I have to remind you that I don't know whether I understood it or not, but maybe if I misunderstood here I apologize, because I wanted to remind you that it would require a change in the Constitution is it with us. Thus, not only would this majority be sufficient but two - thirds. What I wanted to point out in particular, you touched yourself again in response to that civil war statement. That's when you used it and pointed out that it was aggression. And now you said it was rape of my country. It wasn't a rape of Croatia. There's an expression for what happened in the Homeland War, and it's aggression and why it's so hard to cross that word all the time. We use everything else and then we end up explaining it. Allow me, allow me, so you yourself get into unnecessary trouble so you have to explain what you wanted to say. And in the end, and in the end, you said it was just a little above ground. Here you can see that at first you were just a little above ground then this debate wouldn't take so long to confirm the new minister, but probably much, much shorter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34456	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34457	Next time it will take longer, because if I can stay on the European Council all night for no apparent reason standing on my feet, then I can stay here for 10 hours, it's not a problem. To find out the truth and hear the truth. Of course I didn't say what you said and, of course, I immediately fenced myself from it, but I beg you, or I suggest you don't deal with my public relations and what I had to explain. You should be interested in it as a competition that I have to keep explaining something, and I enjoy it because I know what I said. And I said aggression and you heard it, and now you're pretending you didn't hear it again. The truth is like quiet water.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34458	New replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government said I was arrogant, I really don't think I'm arrogant, and you know that pride is a mortal sin, and I don't know if I'm going to confess, especially in the time of use, because of that mortal sin. But as you know, I don't live with the political elites, I live in a small place, a small community, and humble people, and I won't hesitate to speak for them. They really don't need big words, they really need parts that I can't expect from you, and I'd really like to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34460	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34461	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the end, I'd like you to calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34462	Keep going, you can hear everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34463	In the end, I just want to say why we should vote for the candidate proposed by the Prime Minister. When his chosen one in Mr. Jakovcic's image speaks of that IDS from which the candidate comes, Mr. Caine, to mix them up. When he tells his president, the former president's IDS says it's a mob organization that resembles Sicily and Calabria. I would rather say that the doubt in the air can be replaced by this Sicily and Calabria with Barbara and Dragoner, which you converted into building land during your time as President of the Istrian County Assembly. So the doubts of the coming candidate will be clarified in the coming period as well as your role in everything that has happened in Istria. When Mr. Prime Minister tells me about my delusions of what was in the pre-election campaign and comparison with some names, I made it clear to myself and I don't want to explain it. But I want to say that in this regard of civil war, in which you have made it clear you are certainly wrong, whether it was your lapus, whether it was gaff, whether it was improvisation, whether it was something else I just want to say that you insulted Croatian defenders and that they clearly said their position and you called them black shirts. And just one more thing, when you're so quick to defend all this, please read what it says about Iguman of the Orthodox monastery of Krk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34464	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34465	Who he is with and with some gambling on his head and whose songs he marked the celebrations in the Krko monastery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34466	Thank you very much. Time's up, thank you very much. Replicated Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34467	So, you again about Istria, I don't know what this Istria is, what this Istria is so itchy about you, but I know that in the area where you come from, and every part of Croatia is open to each of us and Istria for you, so there will be good people who receive you, they won't give you a single vote, they won't accept you, they won't give you support. I'm in your place where you come from I can come and there we'll get more votes than you, although I'm a stranger there, a stranger though, a Croat but a stranger, there I don't live. And that says a lot, although few of us are prophets in their village or in their neighborhood, it says that some courtesy would require that you do not get so much of Istria because it is a foreign country in cultural terms, it is our Croatian country. Therefore, as we do not salt your brains with Pitomaca, which is a beautiful neighborhood in Virovitski County, Cacawi has always slowed down where the county belongs, I love that neighborhood. That's how you're welcome in Istria, not because I'm telling you because it doesn't matter what I tell you. Everyone's welcome everywhere but give a little courtesy, it all makes no sense, giving your statements where you've been playing with the origins of people's names are, listen it's not benevolent how to say it, it's doing this kind of thing like in the Kistans. And in the end, of course, I'm not happy, but there are some deep logic and damn justice in that there are the children of unhappy, poor people who are members of both SDP and HDZ and they have absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34468	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the lists reported for discussion, we've exhausted the lists of reported replicas. Dear colleagues, I think I have something to say in the end about today's debate. All those who asked for the presidential table to intervene either on the left or on the right. My fellow Croatian MPs, I think you used kerosene as fuel in the debates, at the beginning absolutely. At the end of the garbit as fuel and you gave us water for the President's desk to shut it down, you know that can't shut down either kerosene or garbit. We don't need that. Each of you, personally as a representative, is responsible for the spoken word and for himself and for the environment and for those he represents, and these are the most important of our judges. In every election. Don't expect us to use the tools we have to lead a moral judgment. In the end, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal to show Darko Lorencin's confidence in the duties of Minister of Tourism. To show confidence, most of all the votes of the MPs, i.e. 76 MPs from a total of 151 MPs. By raising our hands, who is to be trusted? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, please there will be opportunities for applause and congratulations, just to determine, 79 votes in favour, 20 votes against and one abstention. I'm asking the Minister of Tourism to take an oath. The oath is given in a way that the President of the Parliament, or chair of the pronunciation, of the text of the oath and Mr Lorencin, the new tourism minister, says the word I swear. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will be conscious and honorable in my duties as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34469	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34470	Dear Ministers, all congratulations from this House on the election and good wishes that for your sake, your ministry, us in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian tourism and Croatian citizens perform the duty of general satisfaction, no matter how many votes you received and who voted for you, you are the Croatian Minister of Tourism. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34471	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34472	Let's move forward with the agenda. It is next - Final proposal for a law supplementing the law on gambling, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 313 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second reading, you can submit the amendments until the end of the debate. Please, fellow MPs, leave. He has a suggestion that we have a five-minute break. We'll continue in five minutes. It's 18.03 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34473	My colleagues and colleagues, shall we continue our work? Come on, I'm asking you to take your seats and let's do this part of the agenda that we have left for today. So we move on to the final draft law on the completion of the law on gambling. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, bill no. 313. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the draft law supplementing the law on gambling. 42 private companies are currently engaged in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, holding games of chance. Out of that number 27 companies, the concession to re-organise gambling was awarded by automatics in 2003 and the 10-year award concession expires on them this year for the 27 companies. And in this law that is technical, it actually extends to a year as long as the new law is actually playing lucky, which is in preparation to give them the opportunity to work for another year until the new law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34475	I thank the Minister, forgive the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. In the name of the HDZ club will speak the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's obviously a technical amendment to the law in front of us. However, there is something to pay attention to in the light of the bill itself, something that we in the Croatian Democratic Community club simply cannot agree on. The first thing that this amendment of the law wants to be seen as something that doesn't matter. Secondly, I think that this law can be moved very easily to this previous point that we discussed because in some future times Croatia will simply say whether casinos and similar parties are something Croatia has, whether it wants to have in its tourist offer or not. Because right now it's something that's undefined. But in the bill of law, I'll quote the argument: "The current gambling system is complicated. Some of the questions in the game section are not fully arranged or properly arranged, so it is therefore in preparation for the new Law on Games on Happiness. The new law should regulate the gambling system in a simpler, less complicated way. To enable more effective control of the system as well as putting games to good luck in a responsible and reliable way. It is also said that some 550 million kuna is paid into the state budget annually from this activity. But that's what we at the club can't possibly accept is that for 20 commercial companies, the concession comes out 26.3. The bill says the minister will make a decision on who he wants or who will not extend the concession. If this law enters into force the day after the adoption or the same day when we adopt it, it may enter into force at best on 22 or 23 March. And now explain to me what criteria, according to which physical laws, that 20 concessionaries whose concession expires on 26 March are required and that the minister does all the assessments in that time, assess whether the concessionaire meets all the conditions to extend his concession by one year. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking for the simple reason that something like this is a classic example we can say agreed or planned economies. Any normal country that wants to send a clear message that a country where investors are welcome, that a country that gives legal certainty, that a country that also has a long-term solution to some things would simply not allow it. Because this finding that the law that we have right now is not good either for this reason or for that reason the colleagues at the Ministry of Finance knew about it a year ago. They also knew that 26 concessions expired, that 20 concessions expired on 23.3. And until then it was either to amend the new law or simply to make an amendment to the law but in this direction to make the new law and to open a new tender to all existing concessionaries who did not make a certain mistake, so they satisfy, pay all the necessary things, etc. the concession is extended. Then I would accept this bill. However, in this way, work now that the minister will make a decision about someone or something because the Ministry of Finance has not done something is simply ridiculous. And they wanted me to have colleagues or colleagues or they didn't want to admit you have to know that there are companies among these concessionaries who, in fact, also foreigners who own companies in the Republic of Croatia and their thinking about such a change of law is not nice at all. Their message to other colleagues from their country, and these are not some lame country regarding investments in Croatia are not a bit positive. And trust me, no matter how much we're going to justify ourselves here, how much we're going to convince each other that this is a technical change, that this is something that doesn't matter. This law is, such a change of law has caused great damage to the Republic of Croatia. She inflicted great damage on the Republic of Croatia no matter what they told me to each other. Because if I told you that only in the gambling budget is 550 million kuna paid, then that's where the big money turns. And certainly there's an interest. And you will see when the first tender for new ten-year concessions is opened or how much you will be determined to have dozens of applications and that of companies owned by the United States through other EU countries. And that's why I say the law like this as interpreted is not good. If we had proposed amending the law, that until the new law was passed, the concession would not have been so controversial. However, the proposed amendments to the law indicate something else. We're waiting for someone else to get ready, make a decision, so he can run for concession tomorrow, and then we'll make some decisions. It's translated from this law. Because I don't see any other reason why a ten-year concession might take another two, three, five or six months for a minister or a special commission to make some kind of special decision. I just don't see any reason. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues of this bill do great harm. And you will see that the ministers and Linić and Vrdoljak and Maras and Greece will meet with foreign ambassadors that this law will push on their noses as something that indicates what administrative barriers there are in the Republic of Croatia and what legal uncertainty there is by investors in the Republic of Croatia. They're just not usual and not good. And I repeat, and I said that well-intentionedly when we discussed this law on the board, Mr. Lalovac, I believe that the amendment of this law should go towards extending concessions to the adoption of a new law. And then you solved all the problems. Then everyone can participate in a public debate on the adoption of a new law and anyone who wants to run to get a concession for casino in the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to prepare in the same way. If we don't do it again, we're sending a terrible bad message. And finally, look, colleagues and colleagues in this country are being published a variety of lists, a list of debtors, a list of these, a list of those. I'd like to ask Mr. Lalovec if at least we members of the Assembly Committee on Finance could get information on the budget. At the Ministry of Finance, at least in my term, it was daily information, where a report on revenue and budget expenditure was given on a daily basis. At this point on the Ministry of Finance's website, the fastest data is 11 months, and now we're at the end of three months. We're MPs who have to make some decisions. The Value Added Tax Act will also come. We got it, though, but it's not on the agenda. Discussing this law rather than having information on what it is like to fill the state budget is simply impossible to find arguments for certain provisions offered in this Value Added Tax Act. So, let me finish. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I suggest you go to the amendment of the law in a way that defines that only concessions are extended until the new law is passed. If you do this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. If you don't, we can't support a law that sends just one negative message to all foreign investors and domestics because this is simply one legal uncertainty and selective choice of those in the future who will have a concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34477	Thank you. We still have to hear the position of the HNS club and the respected colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34478	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Legal uncertainty is the situation so that we do not essentially pass the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Games on Happiness. That's what's safe. Whether the law withdrawn on 24 December from the procedure of adopting a new Law on Games on Happiness or the Law on Fun and Special Automatics that was to go to the debate should be here for discussion. Whether the law on gambling was supposed to be of course it would be good, and it should not be doubted at all, and it should not be discussed, but should be told the Ministry of Finance to speed up the preparation of the law. Did the technical law, as my colleague before me said on behalf of the HDZ Club, define that the law is automatically extended to concessionaries or whether this technical solution is adequate for us to discuss as a technical solution? What is crucial is that it is a key opportunity for those to be pointed out and to satisfy what is crucial to their commitment to the state that they can win in essence on the date of publication of the National Journals on 22 March, that the demands they make can be resolved immediately because the Ministry of Finance has of course prepared this. And quite logically, all those concessionaires who have fulfilled their public procurement obligations will be given the opportunity to extend their concession. What is important, and it is also important for that debate that we had before, although tourism was not really discussed, it is important that when the new Law on Games on Happiness will also be brought about to be related to the Tourism Development Strategy. Because gambling fortunately, someone calls them a cube with harsh words are one part of a tourist offer. And that's what not only fills the state budget, but that's what we, in the organisation of the tourist offer, can offer quality quality to all those who come to Croatia except the sun and the sea as the additional service that investors will do domestically, which is foreign. So I can say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club that we also expect to prepare the Law and Games for happiness to be taken into account and coordinated with the Strategy for Tourism Development because it and it should be exclusively and mainly intended for tourism, and less certain social activities within the Republic of Croatia, although we are aware that even more citizens are playing on happiness and that this is something that is everywhere in the world and that it is difficult to discuss how negative it is for home budgets, how risky it is, how bad it is for young people in particular. But on this point, we expect the new Law on Games of Happiness to be very rigorous on the subject of minors and the work of those who are engaged in this activity, and in particular it means that we take care of minors, and that our society is not that that will stimulate gambling as a solution, a solution which, unfortunately, many are caught as the last outcome of success in life. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to pass this law in order to ensure the normal and continuous business of those who legally have it under the laws so far. And we expect a new law on gambling to come as quickly as possible, and I would like to stress that it is in line with the Tourism Development Strategy, because that is why we should also have gambling in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34479	Thank you. I find that we have exhausted all requests for a debate on this agenda point, so I conclude that the debate on the text of the law is over, and that we will vote when the conditions are met. And that's what we've actually exhausted the agenda for today's workday. That's where we're gonna stop working. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. debate on the final proposal of the agricultural land law. Thank you, everyone. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34480	We're going to the polls on the agenda. Final draft law supplementing the law on gambling, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 313. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I request the representative of the motionary, the respected Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec, to be made known on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34481	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-19-0.u34482	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal. I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the law on gambling in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted. Dear colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, continue with the plenary session, 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. On the established agenda, it is now up to the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 251; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when law is passed. These are the provisions of Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. It's Mr. Tihomir Jakovina, the Honorable Minister of Agriculture. Here you go, dear Minister.
