ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60878	Good morning to all MPs and MPs. Here is very short, so it is a new redistribution of 60 limes from excise duties, which in the previous way was divided into all 60 limes actually obtaining Croatian highways, and by the new division is actually divided into 20:20:20, which means that the total income of 95% of Croatian roads with a billion and 400 thus rises to almost a billion and 900, and thus we actually reduce the additional debt of Croatian roads from 2 billion and 800 to 2 billion and 400, and we know that Croatian roads and an integral part of the state budget. Why is that so important? Because during the new programming period what is allowed or... are actually investing in the railway, and also investing not in highways but in the state roads and Croatian roads have... so official I will say European Commission consultants some projects and approved, in particular I am talking about projects that are located on European corridors, and also those that serve to prevent congestion in transport. Therefore, they also provide financial distribution of, say, 15-25%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60879	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There is a club called Independent List and a respected representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60880	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. As a result of the financing fee... the maintenance of public roads is included in the excise duty under the Expenses Act, the revenues of the state budget in accordance with Article 91. Road law is paid from the state budget per litre of charged excise duties on energy, motor gasoline, gas oils used as fuel of 60 June or 0,60 kuna on the account of Croatian highways d.o.o. amounting to €0.60 at the expense of Croatian Roads d.o.o. and the proposed meaning of the legislative amendment is provided for to further regulate the system of excise duties, taxation by amending the fees referred to in Article 91(2). Road law in a way that is paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy, amounting to €0.20 on the account of Croatian highways and in the amount of €0.80 on the account of Croatian roads, etc. What I am most clearly interested in, however, is how much the County of Istria withdrew money in 2012, 2013 from the Croatian Roads, more precisely what was done with budget money in the area, and I claim that much has been done. The road means from one Roch to Buzet plus the circular flow in Buzet it's 25 million kuna, a circulation in Pula somewhere 50 million kuna, six circular flows in Poreč if I'm not mistaken, one in Labin, Umag, etc., not counting everything else done. For a whole decade, I dare say that it was not invested in the state roads in Istria as much as it was invested last 2013 or this year in 2013 and 2012 and it is clearly seen by the citizens of Istria. Clearly, they think that this is financed by local self-government, does not finance anything in this matter, finance their own maintenance on... media, electronic media, pay intellectual services, and so on that it is nothing more than a withdrawal of budget money while all relevant investments come from the side. Now once again, what is this law about? Clearly, what I am more interested in again is how much funds will be withdrawn towards the County of Istria in 2014, 2015 and 2016 from the Croatian roads, somewhere around 370 million kuna and what is far more important to me, that from 1.1. starts building roads from Buzet to... or Požan in order to free the city from one traffic isolation and it is actually going to be and it will be financed among other things by these fees. Everything else is clearly important, but this is what is certainly the most tangling of me in some way, and it is clear that in 2014 almost a hundred million kunas will be invested which in the mentioned road, which on the road from the roundabout in Pula to the Great Summit and then up towards Stanci and Peliceti, and I want to believe that will start the investment of all investments in Istria, which is the Istrian Ipsion in which local self-government again does not participate with any lip. So, the road that's funded when I'm talking about Ipsilon 100% of the state's money, or the money of the concessionaires or BUIK. This year, the budget provided BUIK with 210 million kuna. It's a 30m-euro circus. So, if the ipsion starts, and it should start in the fourth or fifth months, that means, and that's the point of returning 500 to 1000 builders plus these 100 million kunas of Croatian roads, plus the other 900 to 1 billion kunas of investments from Croatian waters and the rest of the budget of the Republic of Croatia will be secured in Istria 900 million kunas to one billion, and that means that around 3000 builders return to work. Without it, I'm afraid that the whole branch would simply break down. I speak clearly in Istria. Viewedly, so does this law from that Istrian perspective, the highway means the ipsion should be solved in 2014, 15th, 16th without the second pipe of the tunnel and then parallelly solved and raised to a higher level by Croatian and county roads. And that is why it absolutely needs to be supported by this law which is logical, because this road, car road pardon infrastructure is thus said in the country in a way ended if we exclude the connection of Dubrovnik and under the quotes of the queen. Same for the railroads, sorry about the railroads. Yeah, it's this other law that goes. I agree that the priority may be all the priorities in Croatia Pelješki bridge but I think that in the same way the train tunnel Učka, Učka pardon, not that the railway Istria – Zagreb de facto goes through Ljubljana, not to say Budapest. All in all, I want to believe that this and on this basis could somehow be included in the distribution of European funds. And for the end of one more sentence. Yes, Croatia's highways are likely to go to a concession in 2014, the fifteenth, sixteenth must provide 18 billion kuna for the financing of the commitments made. I'm sure the state can't find that money. Someone could be cynical so tell the boss to secure the money for the highway construction the next day. But what am I saying? The paradox is, like, in Istria. We're all 100% for a concession on the Istrian Ipsion. We weren't there in early 2000, but that's what's changed. The concession contracts have changed, a correct performer has appeared, I mean the French BUIK, which is likely to take over the construction of an airport building in Zagreb, and over the next few years we expect the completion of the ypsilon that should be going on spring or before summer. And understandably all the money we expect from these clicks is zero-sixty plus zero-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixths in the future directed further to say raising standards or building state roads. All in all, I personally and our club Roads Act and the one that will follow on the railways is absolutely acceptable by appealing once again to the competent ministry to find a way for the ipillon to move as soon as possible and to apostrophe in future negotiations between Croatia and Brussels and the need for the railway connection between Istria and the queen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60881	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60882	Thank you very much. So it's nice to hear this when the MP boasts how much has been invested in Istria, but he forgot about the key figure, which is the VAT that BUIK doesn't pay for BINAu Istria, for the Istrian Ipslon and should say that the Croatian state has allocated over 2 billion kuna over the past 13 years for it and it's not small money because any part of Croatia to allocate 2 billion kuna would be seen. And I'm glad my colleague Cain knows who's going to build the Zagreb Airport. Obviously transparency at the level, French concessionary, French contractor, and you dear Croat crumbs, so pack as much as you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60883	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60884	Yeah, I don't know who's gonna build the Zagreb Airport. But I suppose this could be based on all these discussions that were in the meantime or were being conducted by the French BUIK, a concessionist who is building the Istrian Ipsion. I agree, Mr. Minister. We each year from 150 to 200 million kuna are provided in the state budget for the needs of concessionaires and I agree that since the beginning of the works on the Istrian Ipsilon, the French concessionaire has been released from these 2 billion kunas. Under the same conditions, we may have been able to build that road ourselves, but then we should go back there in '95, '96. When the late Presidents Tudjman, Mitteran, their ministers concluded the concession contract, which was originally unfavourable for the Republic of Croatia and later changed during the 3rd January administration of relations. But you know what I'm going to tell you in Istria at this point, we're all just waiting for Buick to start working, to get back to work between 500 and 1000 builders. Without it it is clear that many companies will simply come into huge problems, many have already, but the fact is that nothing is given to us by the French or the concessionary. All of us pay them or pay ourselves through concession contracts and through these modes of the contract and without it clearly if the concessionary finds no interest in Istria or elsewhere in Croatia he will not invest here. But ultimately, it all comes down to us paying them every dime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60885	Thank you, thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the SDP advocates' club and respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60886	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is a bill on amendments and additions to the Roads Act. I must stress that compared to end-users, compared to citizens of these changes and additions do not constitute any additional imposition because the total amount... for financing the maintenance and construction of public roads contained in the retail fuel price is not changed. In addition to these amendments, the power of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure shall be determined in the procedure of control and control of the exercise of the right to discharge from the payment of the annual fee and/or toll shall request information on which the official records under their laws under the prescribed activities of the State Authority's water business and other competent authorities and institutions. The obligation to provide requested data as well as the ministry's obligation to handle the data provided in accordance with the rules governing the protection of personal data shall also be prescribed. The purpose of the amendment is to redistribute and further regulate the financing of public roads from the state budget and the compensation paid by public road users. Our legislation knows three sources of financing, maintenance and public road construction. The biggest source of funding is the financing and maintenance of public roads that are contained in excise duty. As another possible source of financing for the use of highways and individual facilities on state roads, toll collection can be introduced. In addition to that third source, it is a compensation for the use of public roads paid in the registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles and is paid to the county road administrations. So far, the excise duty on motor gasoline used as fuel is lead and unleaded and gas oil for propulsion, which is the revenue of the state budget based on Article 91. The road law per litre of charged excise duties for these regents paid Croatian highways 0,60 kn and Croatian roads also 0,60 kn. Given the new circumstances, as well as the relatively good construction of highways, as well as the intention to monetize parts of Croatian highways, as well as the strategic decisions to build public roads in the future, there has been a redistribution of the funds contained in this law to Croatian railways. As from 1 January 2014, following the possible adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Roads Act, the aim is to further regulate the excise taxation system by amending the fees referred to in Article 91. The Law on Roads, in a way that is paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy, amounting to €0.20 on the account of Croatian highways and €0.80 on the account of Croatian roads. The release of a portion of €0.20 per litre of charged excise duty on energy would provide funds for the construction and maintenance of other infrastructure, without additional burden on the end-user. Such a redistribution without the burden of the end-user with the already mentioned incentives for Croatian railways would allow the distribution of funds that would meet the existing needs and give additional incentive to achieve the prescribed function of state roads. It is clear from the previous exposure obtained with this redistribution, but it is not clear what circumstances have led to reflection on the redistribution of funds. I mentioned one and it certainly plays a great role, which is the monetization of Croatian highways in a way to monetize the charging sector and the maintenance sector of existing highways. On the other hand, the construction of new highways would remain under the authority of the Croatian highways. This move allowed the redistribution of the original fee, which per litre of sold energy, was paid from the state budget to the account of the Croatian highways of £0.60 per litre for the purpose of building and maintaining public roads. In view of the above, the Croatian highways are left with a fee of €0.20 per litre of energy and the rest is redistributed in a way that gives Croatian roads an additional €0.20 per litre, so the total fee paid to the Croatian roads from the state budget per litre of the energy sold is €0.80. The remaining €0.20 charge per litre of the energy sold would be paid from the state budget at the expense of the Croatian Railways. This is also the reason why this redistribution of funds was approached but I will leave it to my colleagues to explain in the next point. The third important reason is the situation in which Croatian roads d.o.o. and strategic decision on the importance of Croatian roads in the future and their role in the construction and maintenance of public roads. Changes in the method of payment of compensation for the financing of construction and maintenance of public roads have affected the ability to realise established public road construction and maintenance programmes. Changes can be divided into three periods from 2001 to 2006, 2006 to 2009 and from 2009 to today. In the first phase of 2001-2006, public road law charges for the financing of construction and maintenance of public roads are paid by producers and importers of oil products and by the competent authority of the State Department for Goods Reserves, and this imposition is calculated in a retail price. The fee is determined by a litre of delivered and imported oil derivatives, amounting to €0.60 on the account of Croatian highways and €0.60 on the account of Croatian roads, this second one, I think, went from 1 January 2002. The obligation arises at the time of dispatch of oil derivatives from the plant of the manufacturer or at the time of sale of the product to the customer and is paid within 30 days. It is important to mention for the sake of easier compatibility with today's situation that at this time the compensation for HAC and Croatian roads is about 30.31% in the retail price of oil derivatives. The second period from 2006-2009. The Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2006 and the Order on the way of payment of the revenue of the budget, compulsory contributions and revenue for the financing of other public needs in 2006 stipulated that the fuel price fee is the revenue of the budget that the bonds will pay in favour of the State budget account, with the designation of the type of income 5142. According to all payments, fuel price charges starting from 1.1.2006 shall be made in favour of the State budget account and shall be transferred to final customers of the Croatian highways and Croatian roads which have both the level of compensation and the method of accounting and the manner of reporting unchanged as a whole. During the period which began in 2009 and lasted until today under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads and amending the Law on Excises, the way in which the compensation for the financing of public road construction and maintenance was determined has also changed. In 2010, road charges for fuel prices are no longer paid on the basis of a national budget with code 5142 but total excise duties are paid at the account of 1058 including part of excise duties belonging to Croatian highways and Croatian roads. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure on a daily basis on the basis of the report of the revenue paid in the income code 1058 provided by FINA shall apply a determined estimated percentage of 47%, which in principle represents the average participation of road charges in energy excise duties and shall be considered as advances and transfers of funds in equal proportions to HAC and HACE. Both the poor and the other users lose sight of the amounts of energy and payment of charges per user. That year, Croatia's roads recorded less revenue than a road fee of about 160 million kuna. In 2011, they fail to reach the value of the 2009 fee, but they are also shorter by around 80 million kuna. The same is true of Croatian highways. Also, the data to compare is that the fees for Croatian highways and Croatian roads in 2000 amount to around 30.31% of the retail price of oil derivatives, now account for about 11% of the total. The fee paid by the Croatian roads and Croatian highways from excise duties on energy was around two billion and nine hundred million kunas in 2011. The estimated amount that Croatian roads would receive in the event of the adoption of this law from all of these is not difficult to calculate and would amount to around a billion 800 million, a billion 900 million kuna, while Croatian highways would receive around 470 million kunas as well as Croatian railways. This is very important for Croatian roads and their role in the future of road construction in the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, it is not intended to cut investments and stop them but rather to encourage them and try to finance them as much as possible from European funds. This is how the proposed allocation of fees for financing, maintenance and construction of public roads enables Croatian roads to catch their breath, to partly return, partially refinance existing credit obligations, attract money from European funds and to start such an expected new cycle of road construction. The SDP club will support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60887	Thank you, too. We're going with replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60888	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Vidovic from your first and foremost opening work would be able to understand that it is a technical law that, as you yourself have told the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, nothing important changes these laws because there is no increase in charges or fuel prices. And in that part you are right, it really does not increase the price of fuel but within the fee is divided in a different way between the users now by introducing Croatian railways. But this law is not technical. You know that very well. In this law, the Croatian Government sends a message that the construction of highways, the network of highways in the Republic of Croatia, because the Croatian highways, which you later said at the end, remain somewhere for a billion kunas of less financial resources that were intended for the construction of the highway network in Croatia. And I'm going to tell you not only that he's giving up building a highway network but exactly the opposite of what you said. If some type of transport in the Republic of Croatia can rely on European funds to a greater extent, then it is precisely the Croatian Railways and the railway infrastructure network, for which the construction of kudikamo is easier to provide funds in European funds than for the construction of road infrastructure. Therefore, in this part, I would say that you are contradictory, because if we want to invest more from the European Funds, then the total Croatian railways are the kind of traffic that can be financed from European funds to a far greater extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60889	Replica response, respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60890	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as this work is concerned, the Croatian state is giving up on the construction of highways, it does not fully stand, so if we know it is going, that the proposal for monetization of Croatian highways is to be separated, in some way monetized, and that is what I said in my presentation, the collection sector and the maintenance sector on the other side of the construction sector remained practically still in the Croatian highways. He's still being funded from this work. So, I don't think you're right. It's also the intention of how much I've learned from the material and by talking to the minister and other people in the ministry, the intention is to... The construction is transferred to the Croatian roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for money from European funds, you know as well as I do that every European project is needed and co-financed as money can be obtained for railways so that the same thing on European corridors can get money for roads as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60891	A new replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60892	Thank you very much. Comrade Vidovic, when you are already talking about individual stages, then you should know why certain changes were taking place. So, in 2006, a state treasury was introduced, and since then, there were several hundred sub-accounts, but there was one account that collected and recorded all revenues, and the funds were automatically transferred to users from there. In 2009, which is what you did not mention, but you said one thing that is very dangerous for Croatia. You said that HAC and HC receive money from excise duties. No, I don't. According to European Union directives, each country must respect the minimum excise duty due to market equality. And because of this, in 2009, the law was changed where it is said that 60 June Croatian highways and Croatian highways are given from the state budget per litre of fuel. For reasons for these swearings and 20 to be admitted to us as excise duties. If it hadn't been done then Croatia would be in that 2.90 kn how much minimum excise duty for diesel would not have admitted, for example, these 1.20 kn. It was a change and another thing not to say how much the payment and the calculation of interest for those who haven't paid it in 2006 when it came to the treasury. As for reduced revenue since 2010, '11, '12, '13. is the reduction of revenues and practically the sale of fuel seen in the state budget through excise duties, therefore it has nothing to do with the reduction of the income of HAC and Croatian roads because they are related to how much Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy spend energy on which this excise duty is paid. And according to that, so are their incomes. But I repeat, all of this happened because of something and that in 2009, what was done today, Croatia would probably have more expensive fuel than it has.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60893	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60894	I thank the esteemed representative, so I didn't get into the measure of the things that made something done, and you know it even better than I did in 2006, which is why it was done. On the other hand, you will agree with me that in 2009 after the introduction of such regulations, it is a fact that Croatian roads lost 160 million kunas, just as much Croatian highways, and that there was a loss of an additional 80 million kuna in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60895	Dear Representative Frano Matušić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60896	Thank you, Mr. President. You said in your explanation about this decision that an approximately good highway network was built in Croatia and that is not nearly true, it is not even close to true. Namely, there are parts of Croatia that are still split off and who are crying for the highway. One of them is Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the other is Podravina, the third is let's say Sisak etc.. So there are parts of Croatia other than Istria and other central parts of continental Croatia that also need highways. Your authority has failed in two years to create a 10-mile highway to Ploč, which was completed in 80% of the works. So, a 10-mile highway. I hope that now that it's supposed to be open last year and this year until the season, this year by 1.10th, this year by 1.11. the highway will be open by New Year's Eve. And as far as European funds are concerned, it is incorrect that your claim that it is as easy to obtain funds from European highway-building funds as it is to build railways. It simply does not stand and you have to ask all those who deal with European funds, you will get the answer that much, much easier to get a railroad. And of course there should also be certain resources in the Croatian state budget in order to finance these projects. But mostly, railways from European funds, cohesion funds are funded. So there's no need to talk here about how the highway construction will continue because it won't continue to build highways. The minister told Dubrovnik maybe 2050 unless the press misquoted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60897	Replica response, respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60898	I thank my colleague Matosic. So, I'm sorry that you did this after you were eight years in power. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so I'm sorry that after you've been in power for eight years, you're telling me there's not enough highways and I'm saying there's enough highways. [[Intruder: Matušić.]] I mean, it's a little bit and I have to say nonce. On the other hand, according to official data, Croatia is second or third in terms of construction of highways. So, I don't think that's yours. And the European Fund.../The speaker doesn't understand... and you won't change my mind. And I don't think it stands, so it's as simple as we build on European corridors and it's just as easy or equally difficult to get the funds for both railways and roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60899	Thank you. New replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60900	Dear colleague Vidovic, namely I will go... and from this replica you said the same way in your presentation, which is whether there are enough highways or not and whether we are well-moved in Croatia or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is absolutely certain that from the south of Croatia they will not agree with you because you must admit that the south of Croatia is cut off from Croatia. A very bad relationship. And I agree with Mr Matusic, many parts of central Croatia have been cut off. The roads were built unequally. What especially encouraged me to report for the replica is when you said that 470 million kunas that will be set aside for road development that it is a stimulant, that it will not stop building highways and will stimulate further construction. So now that and that's true what you're saying, so we're gonna build highways and the government's gonna do highways on the drum and then we're gonna sell or give, whatever you want, 50 years concession. I don't know what it means for you and my life to give 50 years to someone in a highway concession. So we're going to build, and then we're going to give to strangers, and mostly foreigners are going to buy roads, highways, so they can make 50 years on highways. If someone says it is not so why would someone be willing to take or why they would want to take Croatian highways in a concession if they cannot make money and we know well how it is earned and if there is not enough traffic on those highways. So, all of what we're saying today is highly connected to the fact that highways like the government announced, I'm hoping that maybe it'll get in the way, maybe no one will show up for that contest, all of it's due if we know that highways are going to go to the drum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60901	Replica response, respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60902	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague, yes, southern Croatia itself, the south of Croatia is not connected to highways, unfortunately, but I don't think there should be a problem in this man who... in this government because they are the first to run this story seriously, so that it started both with the Peljega Bridge and with everyone else through the European funds. On the other hand, the causes should be sought somewhere before, perhaps in the coloring of the tunnels, perhaps in the washing of tunnels and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60903	Honored representative Natalija Martincevic on behalf of the Croatian Parliament's HNS Representatives' Club. Here's your esteemed MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60904	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As proposed amendments and additions to this law concern, the HNS supports the ministry's intensities to monitor and control the exercise of use and the loss of the right to exempt from paying annual fees or tolls. We also believe that the change in the amount of compensation for the financing and maintenance and construction of public roads that are paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy will provide a greater source for the financing and management of state roads as an important part of road infrastructure. This in any case raises the investment potential of state roads and this is good because they are in poor condition, they should also be maintained and increased safety on them and, of course, ensure a better transport connection. The questions that arise here are, above all, the fact that 3.5 billion kuna comes to us in 2014 to collect to the Croatian highways and the question is, of course, whether these 0.20 kunas will be enough to settle these obligations. The second question that arises here is therefore a matter related to the planned monetisation of Croatian highways in 2014. So if we are really going to start investments, if we are really going to start to improve the quality of traffic on state roads, it will certainly mean that one part of those who use highways will go to state roads and change that in one part of the mathematics for the future concessionaire, so of course that should also be taken into account. However, I would like to draw attention to an important topic, namely one of the tasks that greatly burdens our craftsmen and entrepreneurs. For example, in Article 73 of the Treaty on European The road law provides for the payment of compensation for the use of access to the public road, and the rule provides for a fee price of 15 to 30 kuna per metre of square approach per month. So that figure goes up to 1,000 kunas a month to our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, which will say that it is a very high charge that our craftsmen and entrepreneurs today are certainly not able to pay, or indeed it is very burdensome. Namely, when I organized a convention of craftsmen in Varazdin a month ago, where the situation in craftsmanship and especially the Law on craftsmanship were discussed, this was highlighted by our craftsmen as one of the major problems. At the meeting we presented the data, there were when we talked about the Law on crafts, but in particular in Varazdin County, 20% of the trades in the City of Varazdin as a town of craftsmen were closed 25%, so, of course, it is a wish that wherever it is possible for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs to get through these difficult times. The conclusions and proposals adopted at the meeting, as well as the call for dialogue of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, are not accepted, but this imposition is under the direction of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and I would ask the Ministry to consider a proposal to abolish or at least drastically reduce this burden. Namely, these are the funds that go to the county road administrations and there is another interesting thing, which is that the fee is charged or not charged depending on the county to the county. I have been given an overview of the amount of fees charged for the use of the road land in the county, and they vary at an annual level of 400,000 kuna per county, up to nearly 3 million kunas in particular in Varazdin County, so the highest in Croatia. Of course, given the size of the county and all other parameters, it cannot be logical and the verification found that some counties or some county road administrations in this respect are very up-to-date, i.e. they only work entirely according to the regulations until others are so up-to-date, i.e. entrepreneurs and craftsmen pay that fee when they build something. Also some of the craftsmen did not want to pay that fee and concluded contracts with the county road administration that then sued them and ended up in first-degree judgments, I have here some of the trade courts in Varazdin and Bjelovar, the craftsmen received a dispute in the first degree. And now of course... The ŽUCs regret these judgments, and if the High Court of Commerce decides otherwise on this matter, it will specifically mean such a financial blow to those craftsmen that they will not survive it. So we now have in real condition the fact that the Regulation is not respected, that is, only partially respected and that there are serious legal problems. And of course, it is not the idea to help craftsmen and entrepreneurs not to respect the laws and regulations and to sue each other and to amend the laws and regulations of the craftsmen and entrepreneurs and of the County Road Administration, it is of course a proposal to amend the law in that part, i.e. a very concrete proposal to the CNS. Of course we're in front of the county and that only the County Road Administration of Varazdin County sent letters to the competent ministry, we also sent a very concrete amendment to the rules in question. As far as I'm aware, so did the craftsman's chamber. When I saw on Friday that the amendments and additions to this Law on Roads I was sure that this change would also be included in these changes. However, this did not happen, so here I would ask the Ministry to study the problem and to accept our proposals for amending the rules and to go with new amendments and additions to the Roads Act as soon as possible, which would be a really big problem for our entrepreneurs and craftsmen to resolve positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60905	Thank you, too. It's the club's turn, We didn't write the line. [[I'm sorry, we have a replica.]] Whose? Dear Representative Goran Maric, I apologize. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60906	Thank you very much. Comrade Martincevic, you spoke of high fees that burden both entrepreneurs and craftsmen. This bill, as explained here, says an additional system of excise taxation will be further regulated by changing fees. With this bill, I agree that there are too many fees, but this bill does not regulate the system of excise taxation in general, nor does compensation change, but only changes in distribution. Instead of the highways to which zero eighty goes now zero twenty, these zeroes go twenty to the railways and twenty to the roads of the state. So it's just a re-use, redistribution but it's not a system or compensation change. And what promotes most of us, these fees are not great because you need to edit and maintain roads and what's extremely large is mandatory insurance of motor vehicles. If 50% was less insurance, all insurance companies would continue to do positive business, earn profits, and would allow a huge disbursement to those owners of motor vehicles, and that is something we have to work on, reduce the amount of compulsory insurance, and nobody mentions it, and that is something that burdens all vehicle owners above reasonable and moderate prices, and it also makes it impossible for vehicles to be made available, thus reducing both consumption and all. Today, many people do not register vehicles exclusively because of the level of insurance, not for public road maintenance fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60907	Replica response, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60908	In fact, at the end of my presentation, I regretted that these amendments and additions to the Law on Roads came without including this proposal which we, therefore from the Varazdin County, sent several times to the Ministry. It's about high-priced, high-priced, high-indulgence commitment that our entrepreneurs and craftsmen really can't pay anymore. I've given this statistic, and I've got it here. So, some counties, some ZUCs are very up-to-date in collecting these funds, some smaller, ranged from 400 thousand kuna. I don't know in the Primorje-Gorski County, so here's 3 million kunas in Varazdin County. And so our Žuc is working by the rules, regulations, and it's terribly burdening our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and I think this is a good and quality proposal to make it up to you or abolish or reduce you. We also talked to our Zuc, which is not against it. Because it's only a few percent in their total income, and it won't disrupt their work more significantly and their business. And to the craftsmen and entrepreneurs to whom the burden goes, a thousand kunas will indeed help. I hope that here the Ministry will react to it as quickly as possible and enter into the new procedure of amending and supplementing this law to reduce, therefore, the excise duty, and of course everything else that burdens our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60909	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the Croatian Democratic Community club and the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60910	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this bill on amendments to the Road Law. But before I explain the reasons why we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot support such a proposal to amend and supplement the law. I must say, Mr. Minister, that I initially expected from you that, with a little more and a little longer explanation, try to convince us why the Government in this way is considering further development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, and you are in a very dry manner I would say with a few sentences what you have written in the very explanation. I am under the impression that either you or you do not agree with this law or the law is written in another cabinet by the finance minister, and then it might be more appropriate that the finance minister defended this law, because practically this law is talking about financing the construction of such infrastructure or rather, he has spoken so far, and from now on, in a large part of the compensation paid by all Croatian citizens for financing the construction and arrangement of road infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, this law is now practically changing that purpose, and this fee is no longer primarily used for the construction and regulation of the transport infrastructure in Croatia than for the stable source of the balance of revenues and expenditure of the railway infrastructure operator in the Republic of Croatia, and as you yourself wrote in the explanation of the Law on railways that we will discuss after this. So, we are practically passing this law because the Croatian Government, or the Croatian Government, has reduced in the state budget the subsidies that were primarily intended for Croatian railways and how the funds are now lacking so that we can do business positively and at all in the Croatian Railways sector, then this law will reduce the fee which was basic or original income to Croatian highways and reduce the budget of Croatian highways by nearly a billion kuna, prevent further construction of Croatian highways or highway networks in the Republic of Croatia, but then this billion will now, when it comes to HZ about half a billion kuna, serve to enable HZ infrastructure to operate as it lacks funds from the state budget. That's one reason. The second reason is that by this law we Croatian highways, i.e. by amending this law we reduce funds for almost a billion kunas by Croatian highways and what amount will now be divided between Croatian roads and Croatian railways. In this way we clearly send a message that the Republic of Croatia, namely the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is intent to stop the construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia in the future medium term. Because when you Croatian highways use a law like this, you take a groat of funds that have been paid on the basis of maintenance and construction of road infrastructure, primarily a highway network, then it is clear that this company can no longer continue to build highways in the Republic of Croatia. And that fact is in conflict with the spatial order strategy that we changed to the Croatian Government proposal this May, where we said clearly, that I am not reading here the strategy itself, which we adopted, which claimed that the Republic of Croatia would complete the highway network in Croatia in the first row on European corridors, so they are in a cartographic depiction that followed the changes and additions of the spatial order strategies of the Republic of Croatia tax-based highway routes that will be continued in the medium term. However, it is obvious that the government is also of this strategic document it sent in April of the month, which was discussed here in May, without the government of the Republic of Croatia having adopted the most important document, which is a 4-year programme of highway construction and state roads in the Republic of Croatia, which would then clearly state by means of the document what the Government of the Republic of Croatia planned in the part of the construction of road infrastructure during the 4-year period. So, you declared in your strategy that you intend to continue building highways in the Republic of Croatia and that is what we adopted here in the Parliament in May this year, but the basic document that you should have brought was not brought forward and from which the documents could be clearly read what we are going to build by the end of this government's mandate in part of the highway network in the Republic of Croatia. And if that document had been adopted then perhaps the document would have made a precise statement to the Government which will complete these traffic routes, and then a law based on such a debate where we would know what the Government is planning to do in the next term, by the end of its term, then perhaps such a law would have been passed. And maybe they would also support him and accept him because I suppose he would then be in the position of government thinking what he will build by the end of his term. This is how you expect the MPs to believe on the government's word that they will continue to build roads, highways in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, you bring a bill to the Assembly that shows that whoever should build these highways and finance these highways, you take a gro of financial resources, and we should believe that you will not give up building highways in the Republic of Croatia. And in this, as we have heard in the debate, there are areas in Croatia that have not yet been reached by highways. This highway network has not yet been built, it is not finished in my opinion, and we at the HDZ club, too, that solidarity that was established in Croatia 12 years ago, that regardless of its place of residence, all the citizens were to pay compensation per litre of spent fuel for the construction of the highway should then be realised. And only when all the corners of Croatia and the entire imagined network of highways in Croatia, which is planned by the Strategic Planning Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, were it then that we could propose and adopt this bill because this justice that was established 12 years ago would have been realised. This is how we send a message to those who have spent a liter of fuel for 12 years, 1.2 kuna, so that the entire Republic of Croatia is entwined with a network of highways, that those who have set out for this fee now at the end of 2013 will still be left without that network and those necessary highways that life means for each area of the Republic of Croatia. Whether it is the southernmost of Croatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, whether it is the Podravska ipilon, whether it is the completion of the highway towards Sisak, etc. So it was fair for us that this highway network was completed on the basis of the project built by the largest majority of highways in the Republic of Croatia. I do not see what this is because it has not been done, the more you assure us that through the monetization of highways, practically future concessionaires will be able to take over the management and business of Croatian highways and thus will reduce the pressure on the state budget in a work relating to the financing of highways. If we know that over 30 billion kuna is invested for the construction of highways in Croatia, if we know from the words of Mr. Minister that through the monetization of Croatian highways, the expected revenues will either arrive at around three, three and a half billion euros, then we can see that there will still be a very high pressure on the state budget or on the Croatian highways that the difference that is missing so that all credits can be paid is the question of where we will find these funds if we are using these laws to get funds that, when they were intended for and for the return of credit, and for the financing of the construction of the highway network. It is only an assumption that we from the 1st of January when this law will enter into force, that we will also implement the monetization of Croatian highways. I think, Mr. Minister, and according to the events of the last days, the future concessionaire of the Croatian highways we do not have because we still do not have a project established on the basis of which the monetization of Croatian highways should be carried out, and then we cannot even know what the total income of the Republic of Croatia is based which could be achieved based on the monetisation of Croatian highways. Therefore, even the argument that the monetisation of highways will reduce the financial pressure on Croatian highways or the state budget does not stand. It might only matter if this project of monetization of Croatian highways was completed so that if we had a very clear calculation, how much and how much of the funds we would receive from the monetization of Croatian highways, so if we had enough and if we were to find that we would continue to return the loans that were raised for the construction of highways, then we could propose such a law and perhaps adopt it. Until then, until you know in the first row how much money we will receive from the monetization of highways against which we have also, until we know this information, then we take from Croatian highways a billion kunas of funds that Croatian highways have received under the basis of this law that we are now changing is not well thought out enough. Therefore, there is no valid mathematical or financial argument. Therefore, such a law primarily serves so that the finance minister in 2014 could finance the account of the loss of HZ infrastructure, and that is exactly what I said in the reasoning of the law that follows when we discuss this. Because, as you know, Croatian railways have been passed on nearly three billion kunas in time from the state budget, and in 2013 according to the budget, and we will see from the budget, Croatian railways were planned somewhere around a billion and 300 million kunas, so a billion and 600 million kunas less than it was previously passed on to Croatian railways. The Minister of Finance often used to say that we thus kept the social peace in the Croatian Railways, so I think we are the Croatian Government when the HDZ was in power, that in this way we bought peace, social peace in the Croatian Railways, and that by reducing the amount by a billion and 600 kuna, we will practically compensate for reforms and restructuring within the Croatian Railways system. Let's see how this will be restructured now, instead of giving it directly from the state budget, now we're going to buy this social peace in a certain way by over-intentioning the compensation that was intended, which was used to build Croatian highways. The fee will now be rerouted and will in a certain way buy social peace in the Croatian railways, only that will be paid by Croatian citizens by paying one liter of fuel and when Croatian railways are about 500 million kuna. So, I will conclude, I hold that this law is not good, that it is at least premature, that it could possibly follow after the Croatian Government has achieved its project of monetisation of highways if they knew how much and how the funds would be made, whether these funds would be sufficient to repay the credit, or not enough from the state budget, whether to allocate funds to repay these loans, and then in this context, to discuss whether it would still be necessary to continue the construction, or then it could be rerouted to some other infrastructure transport corridors in the Republic of Croatia, which then after such a calculation, because I assume that the HDZ club would have no objection. This way and in this way, we at the club can't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60911	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60912	Thank you very much. So, fellow Bačić, you started your presentation with expectations, or disappointment, you expected the minister to say a little more than these few sentences he had devoted to this law, that he would say more about the problem itself. However, it is not, so you have concluded that it is probably because the bill is either addressed to the Ministry of Finance or that it is about being alone and perhaps not agreeing with the proposed text. Well frankly, I don't believe in any other option, I believe more in what the minister said the other day on television, that he was experiencing, I think that in Osijek, at the opening of the airport there was, or opening, at the airport of Osijek when he said that he was experiencing this as a stage for some who are experiencing five minutes of their fame when they mentioned the problem of monetizing Croatian highways. In other words, the minister sees this as a necessary evil, he must come here, waste his precious time to please the MPs so they don't call him for nothing. And anyway, the ruling majority will make that decision whatever it says here. Whatever it says here, they'll make that decision because as soon as they get it, it's amen, it's known to be so. And I'd like to correct one part of your quote, you mentioned that one part of the funds will now go to HZ operators. No, I don't. It will go to the infrastructure manager, HZ operators are carriers and unfortunately this government, as well as the former, has absolutely no hearing about it. Absolutely hearing. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60913	Reply to the replica Branko Bačić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60914	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Novak, it's true, I said that, maybe once, I misrepresented myself, the funds were intended for HZ infrastructure manager, it's not disputed. However, I do believe that this bill, as I said, is written in the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. Because as you know, this debate is practically taking place at the interval between the 2015 debate on the state budget and its adoption, or the amendments. If this law had been the result of a deep reflection of some strategic document on the fate of the Croatian transport system then it would not have been so almost again brought to the session of the Croatian government on Thursday and here is today the first day in the debate he and discussed. You'd probably be with a different explanation, that would be transport science, a traffic profession. In Croatia, there would be more talk about this law, there would be a public debate, we would hear all those who have something to say about building a transport system in the Republic of Croatia. This is how this law has been passed exclusively to allow for the adoption of a state budget, to enable the adoption of a state budget because we are already in the state budget, I think tomorrow, I don't know, I'm not sure tomorrow will be a debate, but will entail this current law and the consequences that come from it. Therefore, I said that my belief that this law was primarily written in the Ministry of Finance and not where it should be written is that it is the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure where it should be the result and result of the strategic documents that are saying to engage in this project of building transport infrastructure in the way that [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60915	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60916	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, don't you think that perhaps the Prime Minister, at the moment he spoke to the Croatian public and this High House, represented the 2014 budget and the 2015 guidelines, in 2016, had just to highlight this. Because the only thing that differs from 2013 in the 2014 budget is that more Croatian highways will not get this much money. Wouldn't it make sense that someone wrote some kind of document about how these Croatian highways will look tomorrow. So it wouldn't make sense if someone had the courage to say, gentlemen, we decided to sell Croatian highways, give them concessions, cash in or whatever they wanted to call. And then give up all the supporting documents and then propose an act like this to redistribute these 60 limes in one way or another. This way we don't know, we can only guess what will happen to Croatian highways, Croatian highways, which will happen to infrastructure that is practically managed by Croatian highways and highways Zagreb-Rijeka because they are no longer monetized, they are no longer just Croatian highways. What is the plan of the construction of Croatian roads? Because it's very interesting to see where these 400 million kunas are going to go, it's likely to be divided into some kind of political line in preparation for parliamentary elections as far as local self-government units are concerned. And then the logical thing that imposes on the future of the Croatian Railways and what the Croatian State really wants to do with the Croatian Railways. So, a series, a series of acts that have to be brought in. However, my colleague, Bačić, reminds me of the statement by the Minister and the Ministry of Science which, at the moment of the 2013 budget rebalancing, did not say at the time of the proposal for the 2014 budget that the teachers would not receive the compensation for transport and that they would only get it in 2014. Because when you look at it, we're going to adopt acts that are fake tomorrow. Because this is how it's said for 2013, it's going to get a ride.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60917	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60918	Thank you, Mr. President. It's true, fellow Shuker, everything you said would be logical, and everything the government has done is not logical. It would be logical that the President of the Croatian Government said this in the reasoning of the state budget, because one of the largest, even the largest and most important and public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, by this amendment of the law, we take almost a billion kunas and reroute them, and we should have discussed it. It would be logical for the Croatian government to adopt a medium-term public road construction programme, which means Croatian highways and Croatian state roads, and that the document made it clear to the entire Croatian public as well as to the parliamentary representatives here, which, under the new circumstances, will build a significant reduction of funds to Croatian highways during this four-year period. It would be logical to have the annual construction programme that would come from this medium-term programme, and if we knew what we would be building on the highway plan in the Republic of Croatia next year, so in 2014, that would be logical. And then those documents that we adopt with the budget, which are the budgets of the extra budget funds, would also be known by this law that we are discussing today what we are going to and in any way to build in any part of the Republic of Croatia. And then we could discuss it. This is how we should believe in the word that Croatian highways will take a billion kunas but that the intensity of highway construction in Croatia will continue. I have to admit it doesn't make sense and it's not clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60919	Honorable representative Tomislav Zhagar and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60920	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, my replica will be, in principle, technical character to express myself. There's an old saying that says no matter how the wind blows, it's important how we set sails. Much richer countries than us east plan to build roads, primarily guided by the sustainability principle. I think that the principle of road construction is extremely important, although with us every question is a historical question, and so is the question of road construction. Construction of highways is clear that it is always welcome, but it is also from the point of view let's say this conditional state a better way because toll is expected certain revenues. By building roads you do not have these revenues and then the maintenance burden actually falls on the budget or on the users of the road itself through excise payments and registration of the vehicle etc. And in that sense, I think that the government, I welcome this solution, I think that when you say that highway funds are being reduced but you forget that funds are increasing for Croatian roads. Let's just say it's interesting for a sub-level ipillon where the highway was originally planned, but the highway requires a certain traffic density to be worth it. And now in this last part of the replica just to look back at the railroads. I, as my colleague Domagoj, should now call for hallelujah, believe that the railways of course and historically were always in an unfair position with road transport, especially because they are unable to achieve transport from door to door, often times these speeds of transport have been significantly reduced because many users use the same route and in this sense the constant source of revenues for rail infrastructure is extremely good. And I think that these funds as a basis for all projects can raise the infrastructure to a higher level so that railways can achieve those goals that are actually envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60921	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60922	I agree, Mr. Sagar, that the highway network, not only the highway, should also be based on the sustainability principle. It is not disputed and we are thinking, we Croatian state, from the moment we started to intensively build transport infrastructure. However, if only that argument were led to the financing of its own construction by transport infrastructure in its use, we would never build anything. We would not, according to these arguments, principles of sustainability or the self-sustainability of a particular roadway, even build neither A1, nor A1 would build a highway from Zagreb to Split. And if there was not a network of highways in the Republic of Croatia, the tourist season in Croatia would not be as they are and so many tourists would come to the Adriatic if there was no highway network built in the Republic of Croatia. If we know that 95% of tourists in the Republic of Croatia come by road, then it is clear to all that the sustainability or justification of the construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia cannot be measured only by the archaic of the collected toll. However, all transport infrastructure and road infrastructure need to be monitored in the context of economic development, and I talked about it. If we had made such a proposal to amend and supplement the law based on such an economic analysis where we would have heard arguments for and against, if we had then included these arguments in the Transport Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and if the Croatian public had made that statement then this bill would have been welcome, it would have been understandable, acceptable, justified. This is how we did everything the other way around, and we found that we didn't need that money anymore. How we don't need it, why don't we need it? Why we rerouted them, no one knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60923	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60924	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you have rightly warned of the causal link between the adoption of the budget and the adoption of this law. Last Wednesday, we discussed the State budget for 2014 and we simply said it was unacceptable to discuss and bring a budget without actually changing this law today on the agenda, which meant reduced funds to Croatian highways, i.e. redistribution of funds for Croatian highways on Croatian railways. So the reason for the adoption of this law today is actually the fact that the government realized that it was wrong to adopt a Croatian state budget and that it should have actually put on the agenda before the adoption of this law, changes in this law so that, as it is said here today, only technically, it would have done that point. However, this is not at all technical for many citizens, so I will talk again about the citizens of the Croatian South because it is my electoral unit, but even though my electoral unit think it is absolutely unfair that this principle that you have spoken of so far, and the principle of solidarity, the allocation of 1.20 kunas for Croatian roads and Croatian highways in a litre of fuel, is maintained until the moment until it is truly completely built a network of highways in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the citizens of Croatia... the county actually ask us not interested in railways so they say, we have no railway, there is no railway in Dubrovnik. We don't even have highways, we don't have railroads. The bridge was said to be a project for fools, today we see that they support it in good luck and that is good and we believe that it will be built from European funds, if not from European then from Croatian means, but it is simply amazing that this way is actually being discriminated against by the citizens of the Croatian South.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60925	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60926	Thank you, Mr. President. So, fellow Matušić, we come from the same constituency, so I hear down there people say that this way to the one who was built the highway is now being arranged by the railway, and whoever doesn't have a railroad won't even get him highways. I do not believe that this was the reason why such a law was passed, but that it will become questionable when and in what way we will connect Croatia's far south with the highway network, it is clear to all of us who have discussed it. And it's exactly what you said, that this law was passed or passed to make one guilty assessment of the finance minister that the HH system would be able to finance itself with a billion and 300 million kuna now completely wrong. I don't mind, although I support it to continue, edit the entire railway system in the Republic of Croatia, but not in this way a team more what if even one kind of transport in Europe is easy or not easy, nothing is easy, but where and where it is easier to finance by means of structural and cohesion funds then it is in any case a railway system. It is almost impossible to reach such funds for the highway construction network if they are not on the basic European road corridors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60927	Honored representative Goran Maric and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60928	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, you said this law wasn't good. So how good it can be when big financial transactions are forecasted without analysis. How good it can be when there is no impact assessment and no impact assessment. This makes up for the reduction of subsidies from the railway budget, but will make up for billions of kunas to Croatian highways. That's not a word of it in the law's reasoning. The explanation is underestimating, and the law is not good, the law is harmful. And I'm afraid that behind all the hidden intentions, the goal is to show these that we Croatian highways do not know how to operate. So take someone and a billion kuna, so of course he can't manage the team and prepare, prove to everyone that the stranger is a better owner and manager than we do at home. That's the point above all else. And what you said about the declaration that this government wants to build highways is declarative and for increasing GDP, they are also declarative for reducing unemployment, they are also declarative for the employment of only one ministry of 50,000 new jobs. Let's remember the Minister's announcement. They're also declarative of responsibility, and they've garnered that responsibility on a colleague named Mirelli Holly. If we were to stick to such a criterion only today because of an accident, at least someone on the highway two days ago would have been either removed or held accountable as if nothing had happened. If, in part, the criteria of colleagues who were crushed on fellow Holly were applied, it would probably be rare for the minister to remain in office today, let alone the directors of state and public enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60929	Thank you, too. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60930	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right, fellow Maric. That's what I said in the big part. So there is no analysis of why it is going into this project, and what I can say even more is the fact that in May of this year we discussed the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia where we clearly wrote how we will continue the intensity of the construction of highways. And just six months after that strategic document, we're passing some new law that we practically jump into our mouths and we're not going to implement that strategy that we're going to implement in the section relating to the construction of the highway network. It is true that this law simply wants to address the situation that is in the manager of Croatian railway infrastructure, that the government has found that it lacks money and that it is the easiest way to solve it now in a way that introduces new donations to Croatian citizens will already be through the existing fuel collection system part of the funds belonging to Croatian highways to Croatian railways. And that no longer means it's not intended, that's what's important. It's not a means anymore. These funds were intended until today or 1 January of the following year, intended exclusively for the construction and management of transport infrastructure. Now they are for the purchase of social peace I told the manager of Croatian railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60931	Honorable representative Igor Radjenovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60932	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Bačić, you spoke a lot of affirmatively on behalf of the HDZ Club about the model of highway construction and concluded that we have beautiful and quality highways. But you failed to say that it was a model of construction that had just inaugurated the SDP, so in 2000, and that this law and this separation started in 2000, and that with this model we managed to build a very high-quality highway system, which, by its own quality and by the number of kilometers, is practically at the very top of the EU and Europe, of course, in general. I say, the model was SDP and HDZ used to work in the 1990s quite another way, working on concessions. It was also a talk in Istria and in Zagreb – Macelj, etc. etc. The highway model, so highways in Croatia are among the best quality in Europe. However, railways and Croatian roads are not. And this model is currently predicting that funds are being transferred from the highways that are more or less to the top three Europes to therefore the needs of railways and roads that are not. And I conclude from this debate that you and the HDZ club are opposed to investing in Croatian roads and Croatian railways that are at the bottom of Europe. So, you are opposed to investing half a billion kuna in Croatian railways and Croatian roads and using these funds and coming to EU funds. So, for infrastructure development. You're saying it doesn't make sense. So I don't know what's more logical than what's left of you and what's worse for you than the rest, and you have a high-quality traffic-geographical position that you just have to bring to the level that you need. And the last sentence. You might say that the Croatian highway network is not finished, so it might be more responsible and quality to not use some more difficult words and mathematics in the Croatian highway system, some of which show that the highway network, given the funds already invested, would have been far more responsible in your government's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60933	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60934	Thank you, Mr. President. I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the highway financing system that needs to be maintained while the entire network established in the Republic of Croatia and which means equal equal economic development throughout Croatia is incomplete. That's important. And on that principle there was and there is still solidarity for all Croatian citizens to realize the network. While this network or if it gives up on completion of construction and according to this law is obviously giving up on such a continuation of highway construction, all Croatian citizens are not in the same position. It may be easier for you to speak from the position of the parliamentary representative who comes here from Zagreb but should listen to people who live where that network of highways is only a dream and know that it will not be completed because by giving up on the highway construction it is clear that Croatia will not be connected to the Croatian highway network.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60935	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60936	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bacic is my personal opinion that favouring road traffic above rail is not good. I can accept the fact that Croatia at one point means after leaving the former state we had a catastrophic bad road infrastructure that should be invested in it and clearly that the highway towards the south of Croatia was needed, that the highway to the Corridor VC was needed, however when we talk about the railway is primarily what the railways provided I would say one seriously not to say harder entrepreneurship. First of all, production and logistics. Every investor will ask you about the railroad right now. The railway is much greener than, meaning much more environmentally acceptable than road traffic. And in my opinion, investment in rail infrastructure and encouraging the use of public transport is in some way. Because we have a railway infrastructure that has been in catastrophic bad shape since the beginning of the Croatian state, the modern Croatian state, has not invested in it. So, we put a lot of money into the roads, we didn't put it in the railroads. And that's why I welcome this. And I agree with you, so this was a means for highways. But I want to know where those money went. How many miles of highways we could have had more if it hadn't been, and I'll just remind you very briefly that the km of highway in Slavonia is more expensive than in Gorski Kotar and Lica, that we had a painting of tunnels, steps on highways that cost fabulous money, etc. And you mentioned, we also had strategic failures, let's say the construction of the Osijek-Vinkovci railway which is a total failure, and all to satisfy some local powers. So, in the end, why do tourists traffic exclusively on the highway? Well, because our railroads are bad. They traffic them and the planes and come often and in large numbers just as the planes on our seas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60937	Replica response, respected representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60938	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Hajdukovic is very interesting to discuss. First you take the Croatian Railways a billion and 600 million kuna from the state budget, or reduce their subsidy and then when you do, you say that it is not possible to continue the construction of the Croatian railway infrastructure network. So how is it going to be possible when we took that same system's money? And now to justify and to close the budget, we claim that the highway network in Croatia is complete and that no longer needs to be invested, so where are we going, but in the railway. I think it's an absolutely wrong approach. The construction of the highway network was to be completed, the projects of the manager of Croatian railway infrastructure should be prepared and the projects financed by European funds, and not in this way that you are now claiming that there is no need to invest in the highway network, we will now invest in the railway because the railway is definitely worth it. Croatian railways deserve to be invested in traffic corridors but not in this way and with this approach. And these funds that we are going to re-or by adopting this law in the first place are going to be re-scheduled by the company, not by investing in the rail transport corridor. That's important. So, by means of these means, we will firstly enable the normal functioning of the Croatian railway infrastructure manager system, and we will not make investment in rail transport corridors a priority by these means.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60939	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60940	Dear counterpart Bacic, the crime rate in the construction of the highway has yet to be established. If we're gonna do it at the speed that the State's Attorney's office is doing around 2030, it's probably gonna be time to paint the tunnels and everything that's been done. We need to determine why the highways have collected double, tripled. We are in Croatia... precisely because we spent money as drunk millionaires. That's also the cause, these are the consequences. However, it should also be said that the Croatian government behaves like Croatian pensioners. First, when they get a pension, they go to the post office and pay all the bills and wait for the next first. Can you please tell me, Mr. Minister, that the state has risen from the ashes without a deficit? What country builds highways with a surplus? The assumption for the development of a country, for the survival of the state, is infrastructure. If we don't build it, what our colleagues used to say, if we don't build highways, if we don't build a railroad, we're certainly not going to have tourism or the country is going to develop. It is known that a small entrepreneur becomes a larger entrepreneur. No small entrepreneur, very rare ones who only built their own empire on their own substance but invested, raised loans, went into deficits and built their empires. This government that behaves neoliberally does not adopt some neoliberal logic which I find illogical, although I am opposed to neoliberalism. But when I was in and out, my colleague said that I was telling you about Keynes who only neoliberated the left neoliberal that it was illogical. We're offering you some tools you don't want to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60941	Thank you very much. Croatian Labourists and respected representative Mladen Novak are now up. The pay phone is yours, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60942	Mr President-in-Office Well, here you can, I don't mind as a rule that ministers come, I went to say hello to the minister to make sure he's really here because a year and a half ago we made the first request in front of the Transport Committee to hold a thematic session, so you have a proposal from the HDZ, the SDP, the Croatian Labourers, I don't know if I'm missing someone, if I'm sorry, a year and a half of the the thematic session wasn't held, and then we were asked to see the concession agreements of Sabina-Istra, Bina-Istra and Zagreb-Macelj if I'm not mistaken, my colleague Bacic asked for it, and we haven't been allowed to do so much today, so I'm going to discuss why we should now have confidence in you ministers if we don't pay for this new concession agreement that if we don't pay the pens not to be traffic and we can't get those former contracts. [[Intruder President: We introduce this as rules.]] I don't think it's very agreeable with each other. Since I'm free to say it, I've already made one here, I'm not going to say it's ugly, but people think I'm in love with the railroad, and I'm proud of it, and it's not at all controversial to me. It turns out from one point of view, if a man were to see this, I should accept this proposal from both of the two laws, because it turns out to be finally something for the Croatian railways. Since this is still a debate on the Law on Roads first then I will stick to it, but just to tell you my colleague Bačić this is not buying social peace on the Croatian Railways, this is an evidence of how many holes are in the state budget and with these money only will be financed by that part of our mandatory European projects and there is no social peace either. Ministers, we have no introduction of what will happen with the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, with Croatian highways. You haven't given any too much explanation that doesn't come down to what I say, so that's it. I won't repeat that you didn't find it appropriate on the board to say such a thing, to speak to us, to clarify that, but I must admit that I support colleagues who said that, who have slowed down such a decision-making process, that neither the professional part of the experts or you think that all the experts that exist in this country are in your environment, or sitting in the ministry or in meetings of the government, SDP, coalitions, I don't know where else to say. We now have the case of the last round of concessions is Zagreb airport, we see that nothing goes right, that you experience a nonstop in wheels and on the part of the French partner but I believe that at least you have to admit to yourself that the trade unions from the Zagreb airport are rightly suspicious, rightly cautious, and why would someone just believe in a word, give us why this contract was not seen at the beginning and the same as these contracts, and what ultimately guarantees us? That this contract on the future concession of Croatian highways will not have exactly been incorporated into it to depend on the amount of traffic, i.e. on the highway. A colleague from the HNS mentioned in her presentation one part that I absolutely support, she mentioned that it is very possible that the price of taking over the concessionist of the road, the Croatian highway, that part of the carrier will move to the state roads, even local roads, and that the need for maintenance of these roads will be strengthened. And what we did in this sense, did we come up with any strategy that would ban the traffic on local and regional roads, on state roads, that travel through the Republic was allowed only on Croatian highways, no, we didn't even bother to do something in this context, to make some long-term strategy talk about it. What do you say the Austrians can do with driving permits, I won't abuse the word but with full right protects their national interests, why can't we? A colleague, Maric, mentioned today that this is proof by him that this reduction in Croatian highway revenues is a way to prove that we do not know how to manage anything. So we have examples like that wherever we turn. There will also be stories about Croatian railways. A colleague, Vuksic, mentioned today, and if I am not mistaken in 2030, when it will come to the turn that the DORH explores tunnel coloring. Then I wonder when it's coming to the DORH's turn to explore the purchase of the Dioki track by HH-Karg? It's the same on this side, during the term of office of this government, who can explain that? Never anyone. It's already been mentioned from this pay phone ten times, so nobody ever mentioned it. I think there's material in there, as my colleague Vuksic would say. Social peace has been mentioned here, though in the context of the Croatian Railways, so I will remind you that unless the media has misrepresented one news that Minister Hajdas-Doncic at one point when the story of monetization of Croatian highways began, he said that unless there is a monetization there will be no money for pensions. Later he changed that story because he gave up that part but we have to be aware that it shouldn't have anything to do with each other. Now, it remains unclear to me, O.K., from this law, the state has made a decision, or the government has made a decision, the MPs will irrevocably execute it, we will pass these two laws regardless of what we disagree with. Then what's it gonna be? We're going to get about three or three, possibly 3.5 billion, and we're left with debts. Now we have a realistic point, what are we going to do with those debts? How are we gonna get that back? Isn't it a more realistic option since someone can correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems to me that about 750 million is needed at the level of a year that pays, which, in order to maintain it, is not really more realistic that option proposed by the trade unions to go through with the debt reprogramme to get out of existing incomes and here I don't know whether there's a possibility and a different redistribution. But I'm going to fill out this story on the railroad law, but I'm actually going to tell it right now, which is why you and the previous government didn't accept the proposal on blue diesel. Why don't we say HH was allowed to buy a blue diesel that was released from excise duty? Well, then that would be a real help to HZ. It's a help to the operator, though. And we are not knowingly destroying the operator, and this is HZ infrastructure with a deposit for those EU projects. But there's no hearing, I don't know why, I don't know why. I'm afraid it's another one of those words that, of those evidence that we don't know how to manage our own and we actually put our administrations in a position that impossible, it's impossible to function in a way that if you cut everything off, you're giving him a warrant that he has to buy an example of the Diocium. Just to remind you, this administration is also appointed by this government, so you'll never change it either. In any case, the Croatian Labour Party cannot agree with such a proposal because I think it is, essentially nothing. This proposal does not essentially solve anything. What if the law is to enter into force in 1.1, what if there is no concession? Unless you find a concessionary. What's gonna happen? So what do we do? With Croatian highways, we cut off a terrible part of our income, we'll put them in a position so that they can't return at all, I can't do it like this. But you cut off a substantial portion of their income. So what do we do? What have we solved with this law? We closed an apparently one hole and we opened five new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60943	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60944	Thank you very much. Although, colleague Novak, you spoke a little more about railways than about highways. However, what is key to this law, this law should have come to an end. A lot of things had to happen before and then only this law that basically refers to what the government is going to suggest. However, it is obvious that the Prime Minister had no courage in proposing a budget to tell the Croatian public that Croatia's highways are definitely being sold. So that's true. Even though the citizens were terrified, it was said that if they did not go to monetization, cashing, concession or how we will not call it Croatian highways there will be no pension. However, no one feared that they would not receive transportation or even be told in the budget rebalancing, but they are now told at the time when they get paid that there will be no transport in the 12th month but will be paid in the 1st month. And as much as I remember the draft budget for the first month there are no funds for the payment of the transport, so it probably won't get either, so it can happen to pay back the pensioners, pay back the debt to the professors, but well, that's another topic. However, as regards this transfer of funds from the HAC practically to the Croatian railways and Croatian roads, we simply forgot that the Croatian government gave some guarantees, that some people who were at the head of the HAC in both the government and that coalition and later signed some documents. These documents show that the solid original income of Croatian highways is toll and revenue per litre of fuel of 60 limes. As a result, certain financial resources were received. We, if by law, have not defined that it will be different in the future we are violating the practical documents we have signed and leaving the impression of unserious partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60945	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60946	Thank you very much. Well, look, what you said the prime minister didn't explain the other day when he defended the state budget. Well, that's the same situation for you, which is why the minister doesn't even come to the board and not even anywhere else, at least I haven't seen anywhere and I guess someone would have reacted if someone had seen it. Some thorough explanation that makes it so, which is why there's not much other solution. What you said, absolutely stands, when you have, this is a state-owned firm and you now have a situation to borrow with certain parameters, to borrow. And now behind that your owner tells you is, you did it well but I'm not giving you what I've given you so far and based on what you've put the plan together. And on that basis, I claim you're incompetent and you can't function any further. And obviously, we're so stuck that the solutions are gone and it's best to sell it to someone else. I don't think that's for sure this country or this people, I think you should try to think again about other solutions, I think this is extremely bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60947	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60948	Dear counterpart Novak, you have been rightly sewn up the label of the prophile or the railroad, but I will now talk about highways. You warned of one death, you said that part of the traffic will move from highway to state roads, and these state roads will be repaired, patched, renovated by the Croatian state. Will a foreign concessionaire move traffic, as in many other countries, move traffic from highways to state roads, suffer losses? He won't, because certainly no foreign concessionaire is crazy enough to sign a contract like that. We know how it is done, those losses, the difference will be compensated by the Croatian state. This means that the citizens will drive or not ride on these highways, they will draw a thicker end, they will eventually pay. What you said was that, at this point in time, the prime minister says, the government is missing 20-30 billion kuna. She wants to patch it up, but she does not want to think about other forms of funding and does not want to think about that the Croatian state can be a good manager, can be a good owner and can know how to use highways in the development of the Republic of Croatia. So that we can decide our own fate on the Croatian highways we have worked hard to build should remain in Croatian hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60949	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60950	Well, my colleague and in the debate, I have noted that this is the biggest problem that all our concession contracts are like that, they have a built-in fuse that no matter how hard we try, we can't affect the traffic of those roads. And now, instead of being a prerequisite for something like this in this law, we have at least made a legal assumption that, say, the passage through the Republic of Croatia must be done on highways for all foreign road operators, or transporters, not us, simply doing segment by segment, regardless of each other creating total chaos. And as for this part of the concession, that is, the cost settlement on our part, so I must remind you that when it was the first debate, last time the debate on the Law on Roads said that, unfortunately, he as a minister cannot affect the price of the toll on the Zagreb-Macelj highway and... - He's insisting because it's a reality, but that here he's going to... Which is why we can take our word for it, there's no argument, you haven't even given us the courtesy of being on the board, showing us these contracts we've been looking for, and a year and a half is certainly enough time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60951	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60952	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, you mentioned the monetization of Croatian highways, so in this context you asked the same question I asked on behalf of the HDZ club. Namely, one of the key reasons why the government is going with this law is the fact that the monetization of Croatian highways will take place and then Croatian highways will not have so much to do with the management of Croatian highways because these obligations will be taken by a future concessionaire. But the government provides for this law to enter into force on the 1st of January. I suppose no one in this country, and at least Mr. Secretary, is disputed that this monetization will not take place on the 1st of January. I don't know if it will come and if the 1st of January 2015 comes, then there is a legitimate question if the Croatian roads, if the city roads are not reduced by the size of jobs and obligations of the future concessionary, will then, until that moment, the concessionary will take over the Croatian highways, how the system will be financed, and the minister has not explained it to us in a single word. It is not clear to me how it is possible to make up for almost a billion kunas, and they are not in the state budget and we took them under this law and gave them to other public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. And second, you mentioned briefly the concessionaire of the Zagreb Airport. It would be nice, given that we have no opportunity on the board or in the Parliament to hear the answer about the concession of Zagreb Airport, it would be nice for the minister to tell us whether the change in the contract he plans to sign seems to me tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, whether this change represents an important change in the terms of the competitions that were established before the concessionary was elected, but I'm afraid that we will...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60953	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60954	He's a colleague of Bačić, you're right, I mentioned it in my debate which will be in that inter-periode until the new concessionary takes over the highway. But if it's to trust the media, no one has denied them, November 25th, the minister sent a sharp letter with seven conditions to a road monetization consultant, and among other things every point is important, but this seventh one is very interesting to me in that part-Developing alternative scenarios that can be applied unless the concession model succeeds. And this law has already put an end to it, no concessions are over, it's all settled. Now, the answer is we didn't get it, I don't know if we'll get it in the course of the debate, but you mentioned the Zagreb Airport, or you referred to my debate. Yeah, it's really to expect you at least to be here because I guess I have to admit it wouldn't surprise me when tonight in the journal said we were looking for five minutes of glory in the Assembly again, so we talked about it. I don't know what we're doing here if we don't talk about the issues that are burning, or about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You have reached Zagreb Airport, but I will link HZ Cargo and the Romanian company that buys. And if it's to trust the media, you got a contract that's still important different from what's being published in the competition. What does that mean? Are we moving on? If we move on, why, under what conditions? Do the public, do the railways have any committees, does the Parliament have the right to know the information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60955	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60956	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, you said you should be liquefied because of this relationship between the law and the reflective consequences on the railways, because you work on the railways. So you didn't liquefy, because reason requires you not to liquefy, because the budget reduces the subsidy to take HAC a billion kuna and assigns a portion to the railways. And what consequences will arise when you take away a billion kuna from someone, there is no question about that. It's impossible for anyone to take a billion kunas without consequences. When you talk about concessions, you also mentioned contracts and tenders, that contracts concluded do not correspond to tenders. And neither the contract, the INA tender, the privatisation of INA doesn't match the contract concluded with a strategic partner. It is completely different from the competition announced and from the offers that came to the competition. Only one partner knew the conditions to agree with that partner. As for the concessions for BINA Istria, the Ucka tunnel, the Macelj highway, we will find out about these concessions, we will request from the Parliament on behalf of the Parliament, in front of the Parliament as representatives, we will request a copy of these contracts and very soon. No concession shall be a secret which, by all means, points to the damage of the State. Imagine the release of VAT to concessionaries on BINA and Istria and on the Macelj highway. And various other privileges, avoiding any unpleasant situations. These are typical examples of compromise contracts, but the entire economic policy has adopted a comparative-predator policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60957	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60958	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start with the same order you're in. ... liquefying about being in H.C. is now separating a certain part of the money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since I'm from that system, so I'm going to point out, it just doesn't, it's never too much to stress that it's not about HZ, it's not about HZ. It is part of the infrastructure that concerns what is interesting to the EU, not what is interesting to us, not what we need for our population, our citizens, but only what is interesting to the EU. It's a corridor that's actually to be honest only with the backup corridor. They used to be corridors ok. Now it's a net, it's all there. It's just the spare corridor of the Hungarian corridor, the fourth. And all this rest is just our good wishes. Unfortunately, the war has taken traffic to the other side. It's very hard to get back. And beyond that, we've made it possible for that traffic to never return to this side. As for concessions for what you have warned about Croatian highways. Well, look, Minister, if someone called me this much, I'd either slap him like that and tell him you were wrong or I'd prove here's the letter, you're right, I'll deliver it to you all, I'll publish on Croatian television, which is still public television. Or we have every right to suspect that there may be something behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60959	Fifth replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60960	Thank you. Comrade Novak, so you said one rhetorical question, you asked one rhetorical question that would change, so you answered nothing. Unfortunately, much will change for Croatian highways. The Croatian highways will actually cease to operate, they will meet only the obligation to repay the loans as they are intended, and in fact it will cease to work, it will cease to be a fundamental institution that was actually in charge of building the highway network. And unfortunately, the funds involved are the means of purpose, so the means of building highways. Has anyone asked citizens if they want to finance part of the EU-funded projects, which concern the railways, through fuel payments. So, has anyone asked the citizens specifically here in southern Croatia if you want to finance through the fuel construction of the highway, if you want to finance the railway. If someone had asked this question publicly and clearly and loudly, it would have been certain that every citizen in southern Croatia would have no answer. But I believe in other parts of Croatia from Podravina, etc. etc. Therefore, it is indeed an inappropriate move which is obvious, and I think Mr. Minister is in an awkward situation today, because we are actually discussing something that Mr. Linic simply set out when he proposed the budget. And today, the deficit is being corrected, because the moment he proposed the budget has not been amended by that law. In order for us to adopt the budget, we had to amend that law today. That's why Mr. Secretary was in one awkward position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60961	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60962	Thank you very much. Well colleague of the HAC's, if I've heard correctly the minister said there'd be two, three employees left and yes, that's fine, but I'm glad to hear something from you. So, there will be two, three employees whose function will be one day if anything happens that I don't know. I mean, honestly, it's pretty hazy, but I guess that's your attitude towards, not just the Parliament, but the people. I guess they should know something, not just every time a label, but watch out for five minutes of glory in the House why they asked a question. I don't know what we should be doing here if we don't ask questions. You mentioned whether anyone asked if they wanted the detachment for the railways or whether they wanted it to stay for the Croatian roads. Well, frankly, nobody asked us when they decided to separate for Croatian highways and Croatian roads. No one asked us anything then. It simply made a policy of such a decision, however the citizen was told from those 10 kuna frames which separates the fuel from where, which is where he goes when he knows he has to pay 10 kuna and that he can't get anything cheaper. And I'm going to ask you what you think the citizens of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County are satisfied with this solution? We started off with a freeway that now leads from nowhere to nowhere. And it won't be, it's not like it's going to be so nearly over and that's how it's going to be built. And then there's the question of where he's going. And on the other hand, very often now we hear the reconstruction of the railroad towards Sisak. It's beautiful, they just cut off our trains. We've got the railroad now, but we don't have trains.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60963	Thank you. Time's up. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, dear colleague Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. It's a pleasure to see you in our House of Commons. And immediately one question, is there any state-owned companies that are not in debt, losses, debt, high loans, interest, etc.? Starting from air to land and water. Some companies have been shut down in the government portfolio. When we talk about air then first of all Zagreb Airport – Croatia airports. When we talk about land, so we talk about road and rail transport, about water mainly on these internal waters about the mammalian water supply that we don't talk, etc., about ports that we don't talk. So, all together, one disastrous situation in which here we get one legislative proposal by emergency procedure for redistributing money in the ministry. That's all. Now that we're doing the redistribution of money, we're wondering about the purpose of redistribution. What is it to say that made this ministry separate by this model that's exposed here to make that redistribution of money? Railways, when some Romanian gentlemen came to Montenegro to, I say, get a concession on Montenegrin railways, it is primarily a bar line towards Belgrade that was built and Croatian money but that is the past 50 years ago. So, even when they heard the commission or advisers of the Montenegrin government when they heard a gentleman from Romania, they said what you're going to have for us and our thieves, we don't need an import thief. So here in Croatia. We're changing the terms of the competition to get a concessionaire. So look, Zagreb Airport you fired an advisor because he was not good, excuse me for highways is for monetizing Croatian highways, and I think I also think about the Zagreb Airport. And we'll pay them well and we'll pay them fat. He told his colleague, Maric, that it wasn't all about excise duties. Look, the data I got a car a year old, 90 I'm gonna talk in horsepower not in kilowatts because that's how I learned, in Germany car a year old, 90 horsepower, insurance price 110 euros. How much is that in Croatia? 2000 and over 2000 kuna, depending on where you register the car. In Zagreb there is more because there is a higher risk of an accident, and in Daruvar there is less, there is less. There's less in Slatina, too. Furthermore, six-year-old car 105 horsepower 200 euros in Germany's insurance. So we put our fat geese on our necks here in Croatia, with our legal regulation or inadmissible in Croatia. Croatian railways, man travels from Brod by train for 4 hours, now the average on Croatian railways is about 50 km to Zagreb needs 4 hours. And when he comes to Zagreb to go to work at a refinery in Rijeka because there is work there, there is no work in Brod, there is no in Đura Đakovic, then the train left for Rijeka 20 minutes ago in order to drive. So, a mess in order to drive, intentional or unintentioned? I don't know, judge for yourself. People, the citizens are riding the train. And what are we, in fact, the Republic of Croatia in relation to the rail routes of Europe? The Hamburg-Athen direction is the main rail route that bypasses Croatia. She was Ingrid with me as an observer in the EU and we saw where that railroad was going. Hence, Hamburg-Berlin-Bech-Budapest-Arad-Temisvar-Sofia-Salun-Athen, even Serbia is not there. We can be a little bit happy. These are indeed reserve directions, corridor 10, so from the border with Slovenia to Tovarnika, it all became a reserve corridor. Zagreb-Rijeka, here we are, so those who pay the excise fees would give up ours as I say should we call a referendum or not, for what? Did you write what we're going to build for that money in the railway infrastructure? But we hear through the media that it's the Zagreb-Rijeka railway, is that correct? It's said we gave up on the highway. The 5-c corridor towards the Hungarian border of Osijek is not completed, the bridge over Sava or slow corridor 5-c towards Bosnia is not completed, although Bosnia has not yet completed its part and will not be completed in 20 years, so somehow, it can be said, is not connected so well. The Zagreb-Sisak highway, once said it would go to Bihać, via Banovina and via Una to Bihać, will then connect to this Dalmatian. No, they were just fantasies, it's a ficksens fair to say in the slang of this English, right? There's nothing of it, there's nothing really here. Which is just complications for the Zagreb airport, but it is said that it needs to be obtained for the railway infrastructure 44 new train furniture and that there is no money, because one set costs 5 million euros, a set of passenger trains, 44 set times five million, that is 220 million euros. I hope that the purchase of these new furniture will not be like that when we have acquired tilt trains that have become immersive, and we know of the numerous accidents of these trains on the route mainly Zagreb-Split and then according to Rijeka, tunnels through the Gorski Kotar, etc. Unfortunately, we also had a domestic wagon factory that now manufactures type freight wagons, and it's on the orders of the state and so on, but it's some ancient past, Đuro Đaković, Slavonski Brod will not make these compositions, although in front of the factory in Slavonski Brod it stands on the rails of the diesel locomotive produced by Đuro Đaković. What do you say about this law? So we don't have a goal, we don't have a purpose, why are we doing this? We haven't been explained. In this law, it is only said that Croatia's roads will get 80 liras per litre of fuel for beter merts, to improve the quality of state roads, beter is better in English and then Croatian highways will lose a billion kunas and will get a consumption of around 450.60 million kunas and more railways, which have been granted guarantees from the state from before 460 million kunas, it is new to say item in the income of Croatian railways that I personally love and love to ride by train more than by bus for health reasons, that I do not now mention opera Rigoletto, etc. There are more of these parafiscal duties that our people suffer, silence and pay. One of these is a fee for using roadland. When an OPG or a cooperative agricultural farm makes a farm with 100 cows, with strong loans and given the dairy industry and problems, then it still has to pay for the public road connection fee whether it's local, county or state, from, if it's on the highway, then 30 kuna per square metre is monthly, not annually, monthly, or 25 kuna per month on the state road, if it goes to the state road, somewhere D1 in Lica, the man has sheep, well, on his own trip he makes pays for the use of road access, or 20 kuna for compensation for the County road, access to the county or 15 kuna for the local road. There's a lot that's accumulated and a lot. Here's another example. When I talked about the tax a man pays when he buys a car in March or in February and the old man hasn't sold by April, an old car that he car-home will pay both taxes, both of them will pay, right, Mr. Schuker? If the auto-house doesn't sell that car in a fast time, if by 31.3. he doesn't sell the old car, the gentleman who bought a new car at their house pays both taxes and the new buyer will drive that car for eight, nine months. Terrible things happen, people keep it quiet, suffer, pay for one, but they won't be able to do it all the time. And we move here not to say no offense from hollow to empty, move from Croatian highways to Croatian roads, then a little bit to railways, etc. Give us an explanation, give us a strategy for the transport development of Croatia, what is it helped, what will we get, and what will we not, what will we lose? If we're going to build to Dubrovnik a semi-auto-road, if we're going to build the Peljeski bridge, what we're losing and what we get, nothing can be seen from this, one day it will be announced, there will be a tunnel under the sea, the next day there will be a bridge of the French say bridge, the Germans say tunnel, and I don't know what we don't and we wait for concessionaries to please them as we pay and concessions to those who don't have enough traffic across the highway I won't say which and we as a state. The citizens are getting their profits, we're making their profits. Croatian citizens who don't drive that road and who don't even have cars smell the profits of such fat geese. Let's just ask ourselves when there's going to be a excise charge, when there's going to be a tax cut. Not to whom it will be distributed. To whom Santa will bring this year and this Christmas these 60, 80 or 20 liters of fuel. When fuel prices are to fall which are the same as in Germany, as in France, which have a far better standard and higher wages on average. That's what we ask ourselves, that's the real question. So, as I'm not going to tell you, it's not about how this government manages and the government without consulting, without wanting to listen to anyone, and mostly opposition representatives or opposition, as it behaves, so will we. We won't be in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60965	One notice, 7 dots today we'll do no matter how long we work and we'll obviously work late at night because we have 8 replicas reported. The first line is Lady Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60966	Yes, Mr. Representative, you asked yourself what would happen after the monetization of Croatian highways. On highways in Croatia will likely be all that is happening now in Istria on the Ipsion. Traffic means it's heading towards state roads. Why? Because we know they're free. The highways in Istria seem to be loaded only in the summer, in the winter of this period they look like runways. You can test Formula 1 without any risk. But I'm saying that Buick Istria didn't take them today we wouldn't have an Istrian Ipsylon. Everything I attacked in '96. along with my colleagues, I now defend my former colleagues. Why? Because the Ipsion Treaty changed in 2001. I'm aware of the fact that we could, say, build an ipilon much cheaper. And I'm aware that I make a Buick maybe 30% on those investments, but at least they don't steal themselves, it's stolen on these domestic roads. But what am I saying? Yes, I agree with Mr. Maric that we should publish contracts for BINA-Istra, no one happier than me, even though we own them. When are the contracts closed? They're closed in '96. A year. Who was in power? Who signed them? They were signed in Paris, Mr. Mudrinic signed them with their minister but that is less important, the witnesses were Tudjman, or Mitterand. So this contract has elements among other elements and, as I would say, an international contract, and it will certainly not be as easy to undo as it will not be easy to cancel the minority contracts in the Republic of Croatia as much as anyone is trying. And the fact is that from 2001 to 2014 Only that sentence, the state paid Buick a billion and 500 million kuna plus 2 billion VAT through the budget. [[Intruder: Timed out for this replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60967	Thank you very much. The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60968	That colleague Cain, who knows when we'll get rid of these, like the Turks, when they took Istanbul, or Carigrad in 1453, and they're still there today, and they'll be a long time. So are we the concessionaries of those you spoke of. What I would only like from your first debate to finally pass the railway or train tunnel towards Istria so that it does not go as we are now going to Divač in Slovenia, etc., on Ljubljana to finally have Istria connected by rail traffic with the Republic of Croatia, the rest of the Republic of Croatia, is whether.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60969	New replica Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60970	Well, at the beginning of your debate, you asked the question, practically, whether there was a state-owned company operating positively. A colleague of course has, the Croatian Post Office and Croatian Insurance, and the two go first for sale because for these others it is a little harder to find someone to buy. You mentioned buying 44 motor trains for the needs of HH passenger transport. I hope the minister has heard your debate and will prepare an answer for the next item of the agenda. Since we heard, it was said in the halls that the English were the last to talk about the loan that they refused us and that virtually no bank wanted to give, regardless of the state guarantee for this HZ passenger transport loan, but that no bank wanted to enter that investment. It's supposed to be the last actual HBOR. Since there's a lot as we're hearing, I believe you'll be able to get information from the minister a little bit to get to know us in more detail about that section of the railroad law. And one more thing, I would ask you nicely that, you don't have to answer every line because otherwise it'll take a long time, let us have our five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60971	No one said the replicas couldn't be answered. So now we'll hear the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for letting me answer. So, the Croatian Post Bank and Croatia insurance are not the transport companies of counterpart Novak, so I was talking about traffic, so... Yeah, yeah, yeah, here, that's all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for 44 trains, you say that no bank wants to track that procurement. But no insurance company will surely provide those trains mainly if we import that famous retard, retarded as it was a few years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60973	Now we're going to hear the replica of my colleague, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, you were talking about a catastrophic situation, you were talking about redistributing money, you were wondering who this Christmas would be redistributed to, you were wondering who this Christmas would be celebrating. I know who won't. Croatian teachers and teachers who today are unscrupulously announced that their transportation will not be paid. My colleague Grubisic, they won't have Christmas, they won't travel by train, they won't travel by cars, they won't buy gas, they won't have any. For what? Because of the unscrupulous minister Jovanovic and this government, the unsocial government that swears to everything and does nothing. It humiliates the most humiliated already layer in this Croatia, they are enlighteners. So what can we expect? What we can expect from our young generation when their professors barely have the lowest salary in Croatia, the minimum wage, there is no transport for them. This Christmas has been stolen by teachers and teachers, especially those who travel from their place 100 and 200 km to work there. It's a shame. You stole their Christmas. Shame on the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60975	Here's the answer to Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60976	Comrade twilight, they also stole doctors, you know, and they stole doctors. And as for Minister Jovanovic's decision one at 8:00 in the morning, there was news that there was no Santa Claus, two hours later, so there is no transport for our teachers. I believe there are few children in schools who, as we used to say in our day, will look up to our teachers who were good teachers to the great majority, that perhaps we will someday be teachers, teachers, teachers. I think that today very few children can even express such a desire to work in protest thanks to such a minister who is truly ashamed and embarrassing is his activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60977	Replica, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I could continue this education for a very long time. It's not just about colleagues and colleagues about transportation, it's about earned hours, it means what teachers gave to your children in the 12th and 11th months. That's an even bigger question. You work, and that's why you don't get paid. But my colleague Grubisic, I took something else. I have applied for the busiest road in the Republic of Croatia, which is the national road Sisak-Zagreb we have been talking about here for years, for 10 years and every time the SDP comes to power, the construction of the highway stops. In 2002, 2003, and now in 2013. I have to tell you my colleague, you said you were wondering what happened to Sisak-Zagreb highway or Zagreb-Sisak, so she came 20 km ahead of Sisak, the people of Siscana, the people of Banovina who have been expecting this highway for years to come and I have to tell you that thousands of people unfortunately have to look for work in Zagreb because there are no jobs in Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County. I can also tell you something else, colleague Grubisic, you wondered where that road was going. She had her own plan, she had her own way, she led to the border with BiH and you said well towards Bihac. Where he's going now I don't know, I can see that the minister doesn't care because he sees a key on the phone so he doesn't care what you or I answer because it's important that this law goes through, and most of it in this House is going to go to the harm of all citizens, as will the rebalancing in which there will be no money for educators. However, my colleague, you know that the last 20, according to the stories, I don't know how to project it reliably into a fast road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60979	Time's up for this replica. Thank you very much. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60980	Thank you very much. Yes, colleague Roksandić, I was talking about it, and your county and Sisak were particularly fond of me, and I was looking forward to this project, mainly that it connects so-called. Once Turkey's Croatia with Banovina and Sisko, it's now the Bosnian province, the Union-San canton, but good. I hope that road passes, even though it may pass when this government passes, I hope so. As for the money paid this year, it was from this government in pre-referendum time that this referendum was in vain and that money was spent. Look who the money is and who the commissions are, the members of the election committee were, and you'll see who the money went to, and besides when the elections were for the European Parliament and the local elections didn't want it because that's democracy says it always cost. That's what the Prime Minister said. Democracy is never expensive, so there were two elections in a month, for the European Parliament and for municipalities, cities and counties, instead of being together. So democracy always costs and the referendum costs, but unfortunately this time they put all their people in election commissions and so the money they picked up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60981	A new replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60982	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you were talking about a lack of strategy because if there were a strategy, you would not be buying lean trains that did not match the already built infrastructure and rails. Well, of course there's no strategy, the strategy has become anarchy. Anarchy, ignorance, incompetence, that's something that predominates society. Ignorance is preferred, and... is knowledge. Well, a billion kunas of spare parts were bought for railways that were never paid for customs 12 years ago, and everything fell apart. Of course, it is all on the trail of such a strategy as an amendment to the Treaty on the concession of Zagreb Airport which is so harmful that we cannot stand in a minute replica to explain it as is a harmful cell, the Treaty on the concession of the Macelj highway, BINA Istria, such as the harmful, national harmful sales of INA, Pliva, HT and other companies. But that's so much damage we'll be talking about in maybe 20 or 30 years. But I will not speak of those who did it, for a poet said of them a long time ago. He says, "But I think of them well, I just wish that sometimes they wake up in the night and sit on the bed with their feet long crossed with remorse and shame." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60983	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60984	Now, my colleague Maric, if they had any shame, they wouldn't do it and regret it, but they don't. ... You obviously said you didn't know the details, but you know, you know. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I see that you know the details of everything, about all these things you were talking about because you wouldn't talk about it like that. Strategy, anarchy, ignorance, similarity. That's the facts. So look how much trouble there was just around the corridor through Neum, so a merger for Dubrovnik or Mostar. Well, this government, when it came in incessantly, was agitating against the Peljesian Bridge, furiously. They went to Bosnia to beg for a pass through Neum, the Bosnia and Herzegovina, to pay for everything. All Croatia will build with citizens' money. And then after that, we'll build a bridge, we'll ask Europe. It's anarchy, ignorance, similarity, and vertigo. That's what this government does.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60985	Here's the replica of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60986	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Grubisic. You were talking here about county roads and fees paid by county roads. And this division, but I have to say I don't know if you know that from 26966 km of total roads classified into which the Croatian roads, highways and county roads are 18683 or 69% of the county roads. And I don't know if you're aware that in the sixth month the government took off, it means the projected funds allocated to these zero-six kunas from 240 to 120 million kuna donations to edit the county roads. And considering all this, and you know that this Regulation on registration or compensation which is the main source of county roads from registration has not changed since 2003 which is the main source of county roads. And you know how much inflation went in the meantime, how much fuel prices have changed, how much asphalt prices, bitumen and everything that county roads use. So here I invite you to support the amendment that we of these zero-eight Croatian roads, zero one or ten lips point to the county roads. Because it would then be this 234 million kuna and the team would return what was taken from all of Croatia for the county roads. Because it could be a new move,... bring it to zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you consider this to be 69%, it means county road of the total, then you know the situation of the county, where the county roads are, and you also know how much investment is needed for the county roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60987	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60988	Thank you very much. My colleague Sanader, I consulted before this debate with the director of ZUC in Slavonski Brod, who told me that the funds were halved relative to last year, halved for the County Road Administration. So 50% less just like you said. Everyone's going to be 50% smaller, everyone. And when I asked him what could be done, he said I don't know, nothing or nothing, whatever we want or nothing or nothing. And if we use these 10 limes from these 80 Croatian roads, so from the excise duty on Croatian roads, then we will help the County Road Administrations, and now perhaps the ruling one would ask a question and who will and how will return credits from Croatian roads and Croatian highways? 30 million kuna, excuse me 30 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60989	Let's listen to Fran Matusic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60990	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, you mentioned in your discussion the bending trains and even renamed them as immersive as we could hear. Already, counterpart Maric said that spare parts were purchased for those trains 12 years ago, and that some billion kunas came and rotted, that they had stayed away somewhere. But he didn't say what might be interesting to the public, which is that these trains were obtained by direct contract, that they were purchased and paid large, large hundreds of millions of euros by direct contract. And that experts have made it very clear that they are not adjusted at all and that they are not good for our traffic conditions, so the railroad. You were also talking about the fact that the Peljek Bridge was actually attacked all the time by today's ruling coalition, and I will remind in that sense of the discussions that were for the 2009 budget, 2010, 2011. Not only were they against that bridge, but they said it was unnecessary to build it, that it should not be built but it went in the debate and in this direction to de facto, that it had to be reduced or completely abolished funds for the Peljega Bridge although the funds were then left behind but minimal, unfortunately. There are some 200 million kunas left in the nine and 100 million kunas that I remember, i.e. ten and 100 million kunas at eleven. Because it was spent about 300 million kunas on what has been built so far, rather than on the fact that it would save the entire budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 those few hundred million kunas from the Pelješko Bridge. Here, fortunately, the situation is changing, so apparently some are changing, and they are aware that it is necessary to build it. And I hope that bridge will finally continue to be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60991	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60992	So listen, colleague Matušić, you said, the furniture set up in your time really ruined the impression of construction and everything that was done at the time of the construction of Croatian highways. You have to admit that, right? That furniture is in one other place today, and what can it be. About the purchase of direct, not directly but directly by means of a tilt-driving train, we can add that they are also purchased. Automatic cash registers, so where a man could push a bill like washing a car and get a ticket on any route, and cash registers today rot and rust somewhere in the deposits of Croatian Railways. How much money has been spent on such cash registers, and we can also ask about that, can we? So there are all kinds of things like in Croatian highways, Croatian roads, railways. The state stole everything and stole everything. It's releasing the ship, and it's slowly sinking, and I hope we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60993	The last replica of this exhibition will be presented by counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60994	Dear colleague, what is most important in your presentation, you said that citizens who do not have a car will also have to pay for the loss of future concessionaires on the highway. Or, like you said, they're gonna rub that fat goose's fat neck. It's one of the defeating facts. So far, the concessioning of highways says we're certainly not going to have any luck with that. However, one fact should be acknowledged, the SDP is being accused here all the time of all the troubles that occurred in Croatia regarding the construction of highways. 300 km to Split was almost impossible to build by 2000. They said they were, remember what the HDZ attacks were when the SDP came up with that plan. The SDP and that coalition government have made it impossible. ... Please calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll get a chance to argue. What happened after that? After that, for 8 years HDZ was in power and now there are all the cries that SDP can't make 20km to Sisak highway. Don't tell me! So what were you doing? Another thing that is, all of these who are losers made so far, the crime that has been committed is known when it is and should not first close your eyes. And I think the debate is going the wrong way when it comes to that. What's going to be a historic guilt on the SDP is selling highways, concessioning for 50 years, but what happened before is known to be the address of the culprit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60995	And this replica corresponds to Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60996	Eh colleague Vuksic said Maric here earlier, a colleague of Maric, sold them to the INA, both of them, and it is known what the contract was like. If there are no secret clauses in which conditions have occurred, those conditions that have been signed have not been met but the contract has not been terminated. And now we have a trial situation, etc. And as far as highways are concerned, we can be nice here and pretend to be nice in Parliament, great, no fighting, no assault, no throwing bags and chats, but in fact we all and we all here know who he is and what he's doing and how he's doing. One day, I hope everything comes out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60997	We're moving on to an individual debate now. First call from a colleague named Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So I think it's clear here who's going to raise a hand for this law raises his hand for the sale of Croatian highways. And it's no question that the government that is currently ruling to propose it. After all, they will take political responsibility for it. I just think that given everything together and given the existing laws, this law should be the one that comes last in line. Because if you look at the Law on Croatian Roads then it clearly writes to you, I think Article 2 paragraph 17, that Croatian highways are a society with limited responsibility for the management and construction, reconstruction and maintenance of highways. In order for them to do all this, a long time ago a decision was made that they were getting 60 limes from a litre of fuel paid for. If we don't change all these laws before and if we don't know what the future buyer, concessionary or whatever we call it doesn't matter, take over the existing costs of Croatian highways we don't know at this time how much Croatian highways are based on positive legal rules that are in force at the moment need money to work. However, the key thing is that the finance minister only in the afternoon when we discussed the State budget proposal for 2014 said that actually these amendments to the law go because Croatian highways will be given in concession, sale or what will happen next year. But what is crucial is that this law is passed in order to patch up the gaps in the budget. That the 17.5 billion deficit would not look 17.5 billion but rather be something smaller and simply find that domestic component for the Croatian railways. And that's something that's undeniable about government proposals. But why everything with a few steps behind? This law had to go far before the budget, but with some other laws changing. Why? We can fight here and talk, especially those who never participated in the government, who started it. So remember what the reactions were when the... the speaker didn't understand. To say so with a stick of dynamite turned on the Velebit for the start of the breach of St. Rock, then some said that the champions would grow there, that there would never be highways, but thank God, the vision of some others was far greater and today we have a highway towards Split made. So all highways that were made in Croatia today can be commented that some of these or some of them were done exclusively by the goal of being a basic infrastructure project as a basis for the economic recovery of many regions in the Republic of Croatia. And today I say, regardless of the political crackdowns, the situation in Dalmatin Zagora, or Lika, and if I didn't talk about the tourist season, it wouldn't be the way it is if those highways hadn't been made. Likewise, some future highway projects should also be viewed in such a way that we went by the concept that there was no economic justification for building these highways and that we managed such thinking by individuals would never have done any highway. But if we did the highway towards Split, we knew exactly why we were doing it, and at that point everyone normal knew that from the annual revenues, the toll would not be able to finance that part of the highway. In the end, these 60 June were introduced and the logical thing is that part of the repayment of loans from the Croatian highways comes from tax revenues and it would have probably happened if the economic crisis had not occurred and that the budget is not in the same situation as it is. These are facts that simply don't need to run away from. They are what they are, but it is made, the government has obviously made a decision to do it with the highways that they're going to do. At this point, however, we are discussing practically in a certain way that we do not have any instructions about what will happen to the highways, except that the highways next year will only get a third of the revenue from what they received in the previous years. What will remain of a limited-responsibility society and Croatian highway at the time of the monetization, sale or that the concession does not matter how, what will remain of the stock society? So, how many employees will take the one who will take over the management of these highways, which will remain with these Croatian highways and what is crucial, which will be with the projects that have started, starting with the 5c corridor, so that is the bridge on Drava, that is the bridge on the Sava towards BIH, just as it will be with the Bar's joint of the Zagreb-Sisak highway, it will probably remain the Lekenik highway, but this joint that has been done for many years here on the Busin knot so at Jakushec with the bridge over the Ranžirna station and with a merger over Sarajevo on the bridge of youth, which will be with some other projects. The second thing, if we give Croatian roads an additional revenue of $400 million, then the logical thing is that we saw a four-year construction plan for a simple reason, which regardless of our colleagues and colleagues whose political option we belong to, each of us will drag some kind of road into its own region. So these are the facts. However, we do not have a four-year plan to build Croatian roads, we do not know why these 400 million kunas will be used but it is important that we decide that these 400 million kunas belong to the Croatian roads. Also, this will likely be the subject of the second item of the agenda, which is the Croatian railways that receive 400 million. Honestly speaking to no one at this time is clear why these 400 million will be used, because look, I remember a few years ago, and 2 billion 900 million out of the budget for the Croatian Railways was not enough, it should have been more isolated, now a billion 400, but there is something in those auxiliary papers and it is not seen and tomorrow it will burden the state budget and deficit of the state budget, which is 2 billion and 600 kuna of the guarantees that the state has given to the Croatian Railways. Is that the transparency of public finances? Is it good to pass laws, today we have three such laws that have the same effect on the budget and that we bring them after we've discussed the budget, so you'll see that it happens that God doesn't happen that this law doesn't pass, absolutely not the debated draft of the state budget. However, this will not happen, but I repeat simply this law, who, today or tomorrow, raises his hand, raises his hand for the sale of Croatian highways. This law requires a number of other changes, requires a series of notices that simply the minister had to give in this House of Commons, as he said the other day he would change the advisers for giving Croatian highways into concessions because he is not as satisfied as they are, and at the same time proposed by the law which practically takes the roads, take the money to Croatian highways as if the story of concessions was already finished, as if in the government already had a clear picture of what would happen, when they have a clear picture of what would be tomorrow with the Croatian highways. However, you have something called the Budget Law, you have a Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, we can practically not pass a law that will question existence and will not provide enough resources for the functioning of certain bodies that receive funds from the budget. If God is not given, from the position of the ruling and God from the position of us in opposition, there will be no monetization of highways next year, so Croatian highways will not have enough resources. And the second thing, all the financial documents, all the documents signed by the Croatian highways over the past years, were signed on the basis of the original revenues from the toll and revenues from the state budget of 60 limes per selling litre of fuel, and that's somewhere in estimates of about a billion and 400. And if you've given someone who's given you some kind of funding on a certain deadline to guarantee that it's going to be like that all the time of that contract, you just can't change the terms of that contract before someone else has a replacement guarantee. If we do this, we become unserious, we send a bad message to all investors, we send a bad message to the financial market that's really yelling at us with high interest rates, so you can see what happens to the loan in HZ, but about the second item of the agenda, that we can't practically get a loan, even if we give a state guarantee. So, to conclude, colleagues and colleagues, this law is an introduction to the sale of what was the pride of both the political options in Croatia over the past 12 years. Now someone's making a decision to sell it out, if that's it, time will show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u60999	Now we move on to replicas. First came from a colleague named Djurdzica Sumrak, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Shuker. So here we are talking about this government, this law and political responsibility. Here you see this government has estimated that Croatian teachers are so poor and will not pour gasoline into their cars. And about that, Minister Jovanovic was unscrupulous if he could call himself the minister a scandalous decision and abolished those professors and teachers the road, transport, in particular those who travel and 100, 200km above their place of residence, buses, trains, will no longer. And you see, neither did this government nor the ministers remember to remove the same travel expenses for themselves and for their assistants and for all those who come to Zagreb. Well, let them say here we are, giving it up and you poor teachers and teachers are here. But they will not steal, they will humiliate, perhaps, but the dignity of Croatian teachers and professors will never take, ever. While Croatia and this Croatian dignity will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61001	counterpart Sumrak, minister elected by citizens must be called minister The replica matches Ivan Shuker. [[I called him a minister, too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61002	Thank you very much. My colleague Sumrak, as at the moment of discussion on the budget rebalancing for 2013 and at the moment of discussion on the draft budget for 2014 no one has stated that teachers will not get what they belong and, above all, travel expenses. And if those few million kunas are going to save the state budget then it's really hard for us. But the biggest tragedy is that no one but the Prime Minister at the time of the budget's proposal told us parliamentarians or the Croatian public that the government has already made a practical decision to sell Croatian highways and that this is just a small bill. And there are a few more who need to patch up the holes in the budget and in a certain way say here we are working, we are taking care of the Croatian Railways and we left some 400 million to Croatian highways, frankly speaking dear God does not know what these Croatian highways will look like next year in the 5th or 6th month. But I say, God forbid the teachers are last, ask God what will happen to the other users of the budget. But it's hard for a state with a few million rags in its budget to save itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61003	A new replica of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61004	Yes, you, Mr. Schucker, know very well, even on the basis of this little earlier discussion that it all costs. In order for Croatia to collect 50 million kuna for a referendum, the bakery industry needs to make 1 billion kuna traffic, or we need to sell 150 million bread. Croats must eat 3 or 4 months and pay or pay for that bread. So democracy costs money. Now that we're talking about this monetization. I won't commit to or against, but I do know that next 2014. '15, '16. The state budget for the funding of the commitments needs to be found 18 billion kuna and you know it better than I do. We are all in Croatia against this monetization and we are all in Istria for the monetization of the Istrian Ipsilon or better said for continuing the monetization of the Istrian Ipsilon with only one goal of returning 500 to 1000 people to work and finally getting to the road that will connect us both towards Zagreb and Europe. I assure you that the citizens of Istria and we MPs would also be for the monetization of Istrian railways only to once begin the construction of Učka tunnel, the Učka railway tunnel to bring back 1,000 additional builders. Now we also know very well, there is no way that Croatian railways in Istria will build that tunnel, there is no way. Therefore, the only thing we have left is concessions or Europe. And in European money again Croatia participates with 50%. So we pay 3.6 billion kuna a year, theoretically we can withdraw 7 billion kuna. But I'd like to see the Istrian railroads monetized. To start working there and to start an investment like the great Bishop Dobrila dreamed of in 1860 and some years. [[Intruder: Timed out]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61005	Comrade Cain, learn your replica at the scheduled time of exposure. You've been in the Parliament so long, you could get that experience already. The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61006	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, the referendum is the constitutional and democratic law of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But since you're counting the Calican, the Diokia Colony and the Bank Center cost almost three times as much as a referendum when you're already talking like that. But I don't think we should just talk about it. And when you talk about the Istrian Ipsilon and concession, the Croatian state has given a great deal of money for that concession. And the logical thing is that this ipillon simply needs to be if we want Istria to be a tourist mecca. It's something that's undeniable. And no one in this assembly has ever said that. Also, you can't say that what gets paid will throw Croatia on its feet. Croatian highways and highways Zagreb-Rijeka, the concession society has about 2 billion and 900 own revenues. They have a billion and 300 kuna of these 60 limes. That's four billion and 300. Total costs without any significant maintenance interventions are around 800, 900 million kuna. Whether with some kind of reprogramme, with a different loan return dynamic, the change in credit at more favourable interest rates could have happened probably but no one tried to do so. But someone immediately offered a solution to sell these highways. And look, the logical thing if someone thinks it's good to defend that argument that's good and also if someone says it's not good to say it's not good. It's just that there's a question of what we're going to have tomorrow. Because it's a illogical thing if everyone in Croatia is talking about these highways not economically justified, they don't have enough traffic, now some fool will come out and tell you here's the money for not having enough traffic. Whether there will be some clause in the contract that will bind the Croatian state to pay if there is not enough traffic, and then we will see what will be the real rental or concession or sale or monetisation or the cashing of these highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61007	New replica and colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61008	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Shuker, you say who raises his hand for this law raises his hand for the sale of highways, and I would add who raises hands for this law to stop the construction of highways because no one in this country, and I think it is clear to the least Croatian government that Croatia's highways without a billion kunas in the next year that we will take from them, how they will fulfil their obligations under the law, so moreover, as much as possible to anyone in Croatia clearly and again, least clearly to the Croatian government, when we will monetize Croatian highways in order to free Croatian highways as a public undertaking from these obligations that are financed from this fee that we are going to take from them today. And the other thing, I've said that before, you've said it over and over again, this law was passed without any previous analysis, without a professional study, without any indication of whether we need a continuation of highway construction, the kind of railroad we need, etc., etc. If the government really wanted to enter this system that cost nearly 3 billion kuna a year, which is paid by Croatian citizens when buying gasoline, then it was a place for for example for operators such as HZ-passage, such as HZ-Cargo and HZ-Wuča to maybe not pay that fee for building roads because they drive along tracks. Maybe it was one logic, that this part of the cake was arranged differently, that the companies involved in transport by rail do not pay road construction fees. But no, the government is going this way to destroy the highway construction system, and there is no right solution for the Croatian railway system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61009	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61010	Yes, counterpart Bačić, at the moment when you raise your hand for the sale of highways at the time you raised your hand to stop the construction of new highways because the logical thing is that the future concessionary, if it insists on doing some stock, will simply analyse how much he has invested, how much he can return and will ask the state to simply co-finance it in one way or another while Croatian highways have functioned in a different way, so with a basic assumption that road infrastructure is a fundamental development for the construction of infrastructure for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. But what happened happened, this government decided to privatise the entire transport sector, so it privatises HZ, privatizes highways, privatizes Croatia airlines, gives in concessions practically Zagreb Airport, the complete transport sector will be in the hands of someone else. Now strategically looking at tomorrow, if we look at strategic plans for the development of the Republic of Croatia how you can strategically think and think unless you agree the key traffic routes with the concessionary. You can strategically make a decision like this, but if it's his business i.e. a financial decision not to pay him that he will not go into such engagement with the government unless the government pays him something, while the government in another situation could have made such decisions based on its strategy without getting a green light from someone. But we are where we are, so whoever raises his hand for the sale of Croatian highways actually raises his hand for the sale of highways and holds his hand to stop construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61011	The next replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61012	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'm also going to replicate this statement of yours that raises your hand for this bill is for the sale of highways. Let's just remember, during the Racan government in 3 years, 3 billion highways were built from Zagreb to Split. If it wasn't for our government, it wouldn't have gotten to Zadar but would have gone through Bosnia, that was the original plan. In 2004, as soon as HDZ's power took over, the first affairs began. Let's remember the affair..., then something a little bit worked out, some resigned, but immediately after that came the hasty construction of new highways, an excessively irresponsible borrowing that eventually led to 4 billion long highways. As it was built and what was done, it is better to bear witness to the judicial debate and to what is going on before the court. Some, therefore, assess the damage to the debt, under which conditions, on which short deadlines, and how much money was blacked out that the damage was totaling around 10 billion kuna. Now I'd ask you a question, rhetorically, you don't have to answer it, that the question here is not who raises hands for this law but the question of who was dragging his hands into the state pocket why we're here today and what we're discussing here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61013	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61014	My colleague, if I were to serve your rhetoric, then you could say who about what, someone about honesty. But fellow Anticevic, I beg you nicely, I have listened politely to everything you have said. ... The fact is that in the 10th month of 2003 you issued, you couldn't cross the Croatian highways, but through the state budget you issued 2 billion bonds to cover the unpaid bills that were to be paid in 2004. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There are also 600 million extracurricular works left that no one has signed. About that later. And about numbers, don't throw yourself away, you're still a respectable lawyer, because if that went according to your numbers then someone would really slow down to go build all the states to build highways at those prices. The Bosnians and Serbs are likely to take over the patent, going at such a low price to build highways. But I'm saying, it's not good to push on, it's not good to accuse, it's not good to take on someone else's ideas. Croatian highways are the pride of Croatian citizens, not a single political option and Croatian highways were a prerequisite that we had such a great tourist season and one political option and another political option. And these Croatian highways tomorrow with a different dynamic of repaying loans can return their own loans. You decided to sell them. It's your political program and you're behind it. We say it's against it, and if someone was holding hands. Look, there are some other shares where it would be very interesting to see who the citizens were, how much they cost per mile, and how much they cost to resuscitate miles and miles of these highways. But I'm saying about it, let's deal with it as some institutions say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61015	Here's a replica of Fran Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61016	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you have said exactly that by raising your hands for this law you are actually raising your hand for the sale of Croatian highways and raising your hand what counterpart Bačić said to stop the construction of new kilometers of highways. You have also mentioned the fact that this is actually the result of unprepared adoption of the State budget for 2014, i.e. the adoption of a budget on false foundations. So among the false foundations for the adoption of the 2014 Budget other than the fact that this law should have preceded the adoption of the state budget, then we would know why certain items in the state budget were also the fact that the government predicted an economic growth of 0.2% for this year. However, the third quarter of this year, according to the Statistics Office, actually experienced a 0.6% decline and a decline at the annual level is now expected no more to 0.8, -0.8% of GDP than -1 or even -1.2% of GDP. So we're going to have a difference between, somewhere between 1.2 and 1.4 compared to the government's planned, which will ultimately be over billions of kunas as the impact of the GDP drop on the State budget in 2013. So, not only is 2014 planned on false foundations, but also the 2013 Rebalancing Budget, where billions will be missing again and some kuna based on GDP's decline as a result, therefore in the state budget. So it is a completely incompetent, once or finally falsely showing numbers that will unfortunately be adopted by the Croatian Parliament in a few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61017	This replica corresponds to Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matušić, messages come from the government we must sell, rent, concession highways to save the state budget. And then you get the state budget and then you need to read all the documents that come with that state budget. Among other things, there is one document that always goes quite unnoticed. It's called the State Budget Act. And inside, among other things, it says which amount can actually be reached by the public debt in the gross domestic budget. So we rebalanced the state budget and changed that article and said it wasn't 58%, it was up to 60%. However, that same article in the 2014 draft budget says that the share of public debt in the gross domestic product will be over 60%, while at the same time in those table views it is clear that highways will be sold, rented or monetized as it is already called. Well, the logical thing is if we say that we are doing this because we are reducing public debt and that Croatia does not go into total failure as far as interest is concerned, then the logical thing would be that if we have already put this into the revenue side and the expenditure side of the budget that, then, and in the Law on the implementation of the state budget, we indicate that the effect of this monetisation, sales and concessions or what is already called, the proportion of the public debt in the gross domestic product will be around 54, 55 or 56%. Then the process would be rounded up, and that could only happen if all the laws were to be made, not one so small for a thread just to patch up some holes. And who will pay for it tomorrow and how and what problems Croatia's railways will find it is another pair of shoes and the question is whether they will have enough money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61019	Following is the replica of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61020	Dear fellow Shuker, I'll quote you in your sentence. Looks like someone's already had a clear vision of what's going to happen. Someone's coming to sell it out. With this law and this other one coming in the next wheel, that's a done deal. Now I am sorry that no one came to think this way about what will be done with that road that was in Plan 21 in the pre-election campaign promised Križiste – Yellow Lokva and how much it means for that coastal part still for our islands. No one came to the fact that the documentation that has already been made for it, the permits that have been issued for it, for its construction, property-legal relations in some parts and decided that this part in realisation should, through the monetization, be the one who wants to invest here, then charge and earn it. But now let's definitely sell out what we built and the question is what price. I hope, however, of these 400 million kunas that you mentioned will win more Croatian roads, it may be that money that we will be able to see that this construction has finally started and the long wanted and promised roads and by the previous Minister of this Government of our Mayor Komadina and in that part that has so far been prepared to make that part come to life. And I finally have to say that I'm sorry, maybe that someone who buys those roads will find enough pity inside of them so they won't bring up the code. Don't give God again the kind of accident that's happened at St. Peter's. The hand and part of your responsibility taken over because of what happened there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61021	Time's up. The replica matches the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That fellow Klaric, of all the documents available, we simply cannot see what will happen. Someone's probably got a vision. That vision didn't tell us, and we're the only ones left to talk about it the way we talk. Just as you are concerned that it will be with the potential highway Križiste-Yellow Lokva and cares and Senjana, cares and Rabljana, cares and Losinjana because they don't care how they can descend from the existing highway to the Adriatic highway. So, uh... and my Turopoljs, which will be with the Zagreb-Sisak highway, cares about Slavonce and practically in the BiH set, and very much the people who have certain facilities in Luci Ploče, which will be with Corridor VC. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's all the questions someone has to answer. These are all the projects that have been drawn up in some strategic documents in the Republic of Croatia, and since it is evident that Croatian highways with these 400 million remaining cannot cover all these documents, the question is whether tomorrow the Croatian state will issue some sort of concession in which it will participate to build these three, four directions that Croatia needs or establish some new own society and provide some new source of funding to cover it all. But these are simply questions that someone must answer before deciding that they will sell these thousands of km of highways that Croatian citizens have built practically from taxes and from road fees, so anyone who puts a drop of gasoline in their car gives a small, small drop to build a highway. So we say that this law was yet to come to an end, that a number of other laws had to come before that. However, this law can only be called a rag patch, which is to patch up the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61023	A new replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61024	Thank you very much. You spoke about the monetization of Croatian highways, and the process of Croatian citizens and we parliamentary representatives would have information on the drop. However, a target has been set in some way, which says 3.2 billion euros in revenues once and 50 years in concessions on the highway system. When we put it in some financial frameworks, it turns out that we take about 25 billion kuna once, and in 50 years, knowing the revenues of the toll to that investor, we will leave almost 80 billion kuna of toll revenue to the Croatian highways. Would you, as an economist, accept such an offer that you have 25 billion kunas knowing this kind of relationship? Or should we lower it to a year and euro, would you give 64 million euros a year to take 230 million euros in 50 years? So one-time 64, then 230 every year more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61025	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61026	So what is crucial is that no one has said whether the Zagreb-Rijeka highway is a concession society, Croatian highways with their own revenues of 2 billion and 900 million kuna plus billions and 400 million kuna of these 60 Junes are able to service their own credit obligations and practically do the same at a very high level and maintain Croatian highways, or what this government is proposing now is that we do not know two key conditions. What is the level and quality of maintenance of highways will be in the future and what is important is that it passes as it was in those loans you remember what banks have given citizens in small letters that no one has read, and then those fine letters unfortunately become a big noose for many Croatian citizens, and so are these conditions and this is about the amount of traffic will probably be written small, so no one will... so tomorrow it will become noose to the state budget because someone will say that the traffic achieved is not enough for that and that it is asking that the Croatian state gives him something. And unfortunately, we should be afraid of this best example is the concession agreement for the airport. It is the third time a concession contract is changed and the same is mentioned among other things, if this is not achieved, it should not be paid and you once you sign a concession contract if you have such conditions with small letters then you are in a very difficult situation to break that concession contract no matter how unfavourable it may be for you. But I repeat, the key question is what will happen to these three, four projects that are needed to complete this road infrastructure cycle in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61027	The last replica, Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61028	Thank you, Vice President. You are right when you say that whoever raises hands for this law has raised hands for the sale of Croatian highways because if the excise duty of Croatian highways is reduced by one billion questions, it will be returned to the credit and payment obligations. So it's all arranged, everything is decided and probably known and sold to Croatian highways. In previous years, when people were paying fuel charges, they knew that part of the cost of a liter of fuel was going to build new highways, improve the infrastructure, improve the maintenance, they knew that they would be driven by better quality roads, that it would be built all over Croatia, that the tendency to build further, and here we are witnessing that the construction of highways would stop with this act, that they would stop and that the existing ones would not be maintained at all, judging by the increasingly frequent accidents that are happening. It's about affairs, responsibility. So is there greater affairs and responsibilities and greater damages and responsibilities than responsibility for human life? And just three human lives were killed the other day I'd say negligent. She's distributed a special question. It is said that the distribution of funds goes to Croatian roads, which is with the ZUCs, with county road administrations which have reduced 50% compared to last year, and we know that the vast majority of our citizens who drive just those roads, local roads, county roads that have neither to maintain nor to build or rebuild.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61029	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61030	If my colleague Jerilomov, these things with one of my findings also showed a world-wide difference between us and our colleagues on the other side of the assembly, just God forbid it happened during the HDZ government, but this morning there would be breaks, the resignations of the minister would be sought as it was done. We didn't mention it, nor do we intend to mention it at all, unfortunately three human lives have happened, three victims have happened, and we are here to die. But this only tells us that the level of maintenance of Croatian highways must be even higher in order not to happen what is happening. But you mentioned well that the funds for local self-government units of many local self-government units were destroyed local roads when highways were built, and many roads were not repaired. Also, many units of local self-government are state roads that used to be state roads, now become parallel roads along the highways fell on their coat of arms, they have nothing to maintain them with. However, don't you think that this is the key, economic move of this government for next year and that the logical thing is if you have some key move, if you have an ace in your sleeve that will reduce your share of public debt in the gross domestic product, that when you represent the budget for the Croatian public to announce to the Croatian public the joyous news that you will reduce the share of public debt in the gross domestic product but again by dragging your hand into their pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61031	We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61032	My colleagues and colleagues, so my personal position is that it is a law that is before us for the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Miss what? Failure to adopt a state budget or a proposal discussed here last week and therefore concerns the State budget for 2014. That proposal already contained what we are discussing today. Therefore, the fact was contained that the funds will be redistributed from excise duty to fuel for railways and will be reduced in Croatian highways. It was already clear that it was a proposal that actually requires changes in this law that is before us today and apparently after our criticisms the government saw its failure and adopted amendments to that law the next day, so last Thursday and today it is before us in an emergency procedure, of course first and second reading, in order to adopt it before the 2014 budget is therefore voted. The word is actually an eclectic example of how this government works, an eclectic example of violations of all the rules, violations of laws that are in force, an eclectic example of how to unpreparedly enter into a document that is actually the most important document this Parliament is making, which is the state budget. So, more than clearly, it is a rough failure that is here today trying to correct through the amendments to this law and of course we will not see, with changes to this law or financial analysis or a studio on the effects of such a law, logically, so that we can see when this law is prepared after the debate on the State Budget for 2014. So the financial effects are such that the work of the Croatian highways will actually be compromised. It's the financial effect of this amendment to the law. Instead of strengthening itself, strengthen the work of the Croatian highways and create assumptions that continue to build all these directions that are absolutely necessary to develop the economy in the full scope of our intentions and in all parts of Croatia, it is obvious that it is giving up on building directions that life means to many of our citizens. At the same time, of course, it is also about the sale of Croatian highways, so it can be asked how to pay for someone in the planned monetization to buy Croatian highways and make money on them, and our company which is therefore created, which is teamed up, who knows how to work and how to work new roads, will not be paid for it, is it not worth it, or is it obvious that it does not recognise which model Croatian highways should be strengthened? in this way Croatian highways are actually being destroyed. And when we talk about the direction we need to finish. It is truly amazing that today when the order finally came to the southernmost county, it was announced that the construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik was stopped. The more I will remind you that Croatian highways, as a colleague once spoke about the road towards Žutoj Lokva, the Croatian highways did all they needed from the documentation to start building the road. So, all that was made in preparation to start building a section of the road that was to be built from the Ossier towards the Valley, so that part of the 40 kilometers of the highway was already prepared, all the documentation was made. The purchase of land has already begun, even for one part was a building permit. Therefore, it is really unclear what the reasons are and what are the motives for now stopping the construction of highways across Croatia. The same thing is with Sisak or worse with sub-level ipsilon, so it's really absolutely unacceptable that the government in this way stops actually the development of the Republic of Croatia. It is certain that no one else, some concessionaire who will enter the monetization, will worry about how further routes and roads will be built in the Republic of Croatia. It's a fact and no one can escape from that fact. What is important for the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is that they have so far known that they have set out through fuel for traffic routes in the Republic of Croatia. Today, it becomes clear to them that they will no longer stand out for traffic routes in a liter of fuel but will stand out for the railroad. And they don't care about railroads. They don't have railroads. In the Croatian south, there is no railway, why should the citizens of the Croatian south stand out for the railroad? Each year, a Pelješki bridge for the railway was set aside from the state budget. Every year. I have to say that the citizens' position in southern Croatia is entirely justified, so why do we need railways, why do we finance railways from the state budget? Why didn't Croatia join with the Pelješki Bridge? Each year, a whole Pelješki bridge could be built for subsidies that the railways received from the state budget. Every year. We don't have railroads, we don't have highways. When there's a storm and these days there's a storm we don't even have a plane, you can't even land in Dubrovnik. All those who think they're going to land in Dubrovnik, they're wrong. When the storm was here a few days ago, I think yesterday was the same storm, etc., a few days ago you could have been on a plane in Zagreb, waiting another hour and then flying to Dubrovnik to warn you that it could not land because of the storm and land in Split. And then after that, you wait to get on the bus and then because you don't have highways from Split to Dubrovnik, which is about 200 kilometers away, then you drive 4.5 hours by bus. So there is not a single part of Croatia except that of the original part of Dubrovnik that should be clearly constantly mentioned and constantly apostropheeded and emphasized because others do not see it except when it comes in summer and then see it because they see it as the most beautiful capital, cultural on the map of the world and that it needs to be helped. But in winter, they don't see him. In winter, they don't see the Stradun desert and there's no living soul on Stradun at 11 o'clock in the evening. It's not because there are no basic preconditions for development. And the basic precondition for development is transport infrastructure. And I'm really not surprised at all to the citizens of Dubrovnik and our county who say no loose railroads and what, give us a basic infrastructure so we can develop normally so we don't get cut off. There is no part of Croatia where it cannot be reached in 3 hours by normal car to Zagreb because there is a road infrastructure that is sufficiently developed. So from Vukovar or Ilock, which are the farthest in terms of the east of the country to Zagreb, you normally arrive in 3 hours by car on the highway. You can't come from Dubrovnik in three hours. It's just impossible to come. That's why it takes three hours to get to Split by car. So it is quite clear that it is absolutely unfair and discriminatory this law towards the far south of Croatia. And I dare say according to some other areas that also require the construction of highways and their parts to continue. But as far as Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County are concerned, he is absolutely discriminatory. The other thing, 10 kilometers of highway, I was already talking about it in one of my replicas that needed to complete the highway, or exit to the plates, the exit to the panels, only 10 kilometers, was already 80 percent of the work was done when you took responsibility and when you took power. So the 20% left on that 10-mile highway you weren't able to finish in two years. And only now will I hope that we will be here by Christmas that, although it was promised significantly before that this stock will be completed by Ploč, that is to say, the exit to Boeing hope that it will be completed by the end of this year. I hope so, I want to believe that this will be because it will also make a significant contribution to better transport infrastructure and better integration of our county. But it's just entering the highway into our county. That's just the arrival I'd say at the county highway border. But what about the other kilometers to come and yet to be built. I think that giving up construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik, which unfortunately was announced by the minister if the media correctly transmitted it and it seems to me that it was correctly transmitted, that statement is humiliating and offensive to all the citizens of our county and it was said that it would probably continue construction of highways towards Dubrovnik in 2050. This is indeed absolutely inappropriate and I am asking a minister who unfortunately is no longer here with us in the assembly but simply does not make such statements anymore because the authorities are changing, so it is absolutely certain that such statements will change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61033	We're moving on to replicas. The first one is Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Matušić, so to me there are clear reasons why the government is going with this law and these reasons are being reduced to the following, the government lacks funds in the state budget to carry out its commitment to the manager of Croatian railway infrastructure. And that obligation means that the state budget must cover the difference between income and expenditure. So, the company is at a loss and it needs to be given funds. Since the budget has no budget, the government has decided to settle these funds from this fee that was intended for the construction of Croatian highways. Therefore, stopping the construction of the highways is a collateral of the government's work because there is no way to make up for the means to build highways. So when it stops with the construction of highways, it certainly is those parts of Croatia that the highways have not come to, and therefore also the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. But then here I have to say it opens up another question. So, if we take the Croatian highways 40 Lips, 20 Lips go to Croatian railways, i.e. HZ infrastructure 20 Lips go to Croatian roads. Until yesterday, the Prime Minister said that Croatian roads do not have the money to build a peljem bridge, here is now a great opportunity for these 20 limes, which is 400 million kunas a year to start building the Peljega Bridge. Or if we expect the Pelješki bridge to be built from the European Union's resources then let it continue to build access roads on Peljesac and on this land side. Therefore, by such a decision if this project really is decided by the Government, and will go because the ruling majority will vote, there are now Croatian roads with this project have the means to edit and finally connect the south of Croatia with the Pelješki bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61035	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61036	I agree with my colleague with you, but it would be much fairer if Minister Linic had proposed a budget for 2014 last week that he said so clearly and openly, we lack funds to cover the losses in the Croatian Railways, we will raise it to HAC, we will sell out Croatian highways anyway, and we would know where we are. This is just how they cheated on us to have good intentions. When you spoke about the Peljesk Bridge, of course, it is political will and it is that it was not their project or their programme and that it was purposely stopped complete construction. But there is something else very important to add here, and this was the minister's promise that by 1.7 this year, three of the shares that are very important for the new regime that is close to Schengen, which are three shares on Peljesac that should have meant improved transport infrastructure and easier crossing heavy freight trucks through those parts. However, only one of the three shares, and the easiest part of the three shares and the smallest, is the shortest one. The other two shares aren't finished, that's the part that goes from Trieste to... and the part around the Stone. So even their own promises that this season, by 1.7, they would complete the construction and improve the Peljesto road did not, of course, realize. Which are the reasons we can think of. But what's important is that they're not actually telling the truth, that they're not telling it clearly, and they're not really revealing what their moves are, but we need to read them out of these additional documents like the bill, actually hiding behind the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61037	Second replica, Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Professor Matušić, I listened to you carefully and really about the problem of building and road to Dubrovnik and the Peljeska road, you spoke especially emotionally. How you as a professor today feel when you hear this statement of the government that simply mocks, systematically mocks common sense, especially when it applies to teachers and teachers, when it simply wants to humiliate them and not pay their travel expenses. Imagine, professors, and you know for yourself, you must have worked with the children and as a pedagogogogist, which means. It's Christmas 25.12. The children of the vast majority of our teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers won't be able to cheer up a little better gift, but Christmas won't steal them. Shame on them, they want to steal Christmas but they won't, because Christmas is in the hearts of our teachers and teachers. And shame on Minister Jovanovic who allowed him to touch something like that. Shame on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61039	Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61040	I agree, my colleague, that announcement that the expenses will be paid in January instead of December is really not a good move for this government. I believe that, hopefully, they will react, the unions have already reacted and I believe they will talk to the prime minister and that the move will ultimately not be realized. I want to hope, I want to believe. But it's not the first time, it's not the first time something like this has happened. I will remind you there somewhere in 2002, 2003, when all the educators were sued and courted, nearly 2 billion kuna were won after the lawsuits before the Croatian courts were received and unfortunately that amount was the next government or government that did not take over in 2004 had to pay out of the state budget. Over 2 billion kuna only for the costs of court proceedings and for the compensation of professors, teachers in primary and secondary schools, and also for Santa Clauses and Regresses. So it's a scenario already seen so that I'm not surprised by these, but I would like to believe that in this situation in this crisis and all together that such a move of this government will not come and we appeal that it will certainly stop such behaviour in the ministry so that the costs of those who absolutely deserve it and belong to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61041	We move on to Šima Djurdjevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Matušić, I disagree with the fact that in the construction program of Croatian highways, what we started must be in my opinion. Doing some work and not finishing it isn't right for me. The bridge on the Drava on the Vc corridor contracted, the bridge on the Sava means the door of Bosnia-Received Competition, Sisak-Zagreb awaits, the Požeška valley has absolutely no connection to the Zagreb-Lipovac highway, the Istrian ipilon. Let the profession say which project will take precedence if the funds are not available, and I think it's the Peles Bridge. We must not leave our Dubrovnik, our Croatian Dubrovnik in the sky or on the ground, we must transport it. The fact is that all these years we have invested a lot in road infrastructure, and that we are a little rail, not a little bit, but a lot of neglect, regardless of what option the government in Croatia has. But my colleague Matušić did not know when this debate lasted I received mail road Rijeka-Zagreb, that 120 workers were fired with severance fees and that a new 150 was received and that direct damage was 35 million kuna. Now these 35 million kunas could have been done in road infrastructure, and let the waist say where, where is the priority. And I say again as Slavonac, as a representative in the 5th constituency that it's the Peljega Bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61043	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61044	Thank you. Well, I agree with my colleague, of course, and we have always warned that the Pelješki Bridge is the priority of all priorities and there is absolutely no doubt about us in the Croatian democratic community. But there is no doubt that all the traffic routes that have started have to be completed, all the projects that have started simply need to be completed and that every responsible authority, every responsible government simply has to insist on it. Unfortunately, here we can see that this law actually gives up the further construction of traffic routes in the Republic of Croatia. And all that is happening is now questionable whether it will end in both ways and when and who will end in the first place and how Croatia will actually be integrated in this case and in the EU. So there are rules of integration in the EU, there are main corridors in which Croatia is in some way. It will be included, there will be a Adriatic-Ionian direction, and part of that Adriatic-Ionian direction is absolutely connecting Dubrovnik further to Greece through Montenegro, Albania, etc. So one direction that will certainly mean a lot in the future for both tourism and the economy. So would it have evolved, say, in Dugopolje if it hadn't been for the highway the way it developed. Of course not. Of course you wouldn't make a number of landscapes. Today, Lika is developing, today in Lika, almost the least unemployed, almost least unemployed precisely because of the fact that the infrastructure is fundamental, so the highway has brought in one of the terrible opportunities and potentials for the development of the region. We also expect it to happen easily in all other parts of Croatia where it is needed and certainly the priority is Dubrovnik and with Pelješki bridge and the continuation of highway construction towards Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61045	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Matušić, is it not logical for you if Croatia has practically entered into excessive deficit measures and if you say you are going to do something, in fact the most valuable thing Croatia has to sell or rent at this time and thus save the state budget. Is it not logical then that when you present the budget you say we will do so and it will reduce the share of public debt compared to the gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia to, say, 53, 54%? And automatically one of the reasons why Croatia entered into the measures of excessive waste deficits and the question is whether restrictive EU measures and Croatia's remarks would be that way or probably be much easier because we would practically break only one condition of the excessive deficit, which is a deficit greater than 3%. So, if that is the case and if it is said to be done for it, then the logical thing is that which is at the head of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, in the proposal of the state budget, the hands and feet explain it by convincing the nation that it is something simple that is necessary and that we will all ultimately benefit from it. But we practically didn't hear anything until five o'clock this afternoon. Then the Minister of Finance said something like this, and then he confessed, so he, uh, needed your laws to go before. However, whatever this law will pass, regardless of what those who raise their hands for this law will raise their hands for the sale of Croatian highways. Croatian citizens from some parts of Croatia are very interested as you were talking about the south, so let's say I am interested in what will happen to the highway Zagreb – Sisak, a colleague of Đurđević, probably interested in what will happen to the 5C corridor, and I am interested in the very citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the south, especially in the port of Ploče. Because the port of Ploche and its development depend heavily on that 5C corridor. So, many, many questions to be answered, sensitize the Croatian public why it is going into this move.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61047	Reply Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61048	I agree with my colleague Shuker. Well, certainly the responsible authority would have done so and would have announced in the sale of highways that this amount would actually reduce public debt. However, it seems to me that five highways will not be able to reduce the debt, a public debt envisioned by this authority. Unfortunately, here and the basis for this budget are actually very questionable and the foundations for the adoption of the budget rebalancing are very questionable. In fact, it is obvious that the debt or deficit of the state budget in 2013 will not be an increase of 60% but 70%, because of the further decline in GDP this year, not a growth of 0.2 as predicted by Minister Linic and Prime Minister Milanovic, there will be a further increase in the deficit in 2013 by about a billion kuna. So it's not just going to rise by 60%, it's going to grow by 70%. And of course on these foundations, false foundations are being built and budgeted for 2014. So we can only imagine what the deficit will then be in 2014 if 17 and a half billion kuna are now foreseen, then we can think of how much will be based on the real, or concrete facts and on the basis of the economic downturn in 2013 and all of which, of course, is reflected in the rebalancing and ultimately on the proposal of the state budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61049	Next line, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would also refer to this law and Mr. Matusic's replica. Yeah, I agree, too, that selling highways isn't at all a good time and that we had to find a way out to keep highways in any way. On the other hand, when it comes to 0,60 limes that stand out today for the construction of highways, I agree if we're going to reduce the construction of highways, but in any case, we need to make that redistribution by rerouting it to state roads. If we're going to redistribute 20% of these 60 lipas, 20% of the Croatian highway, 20% of the state road, I'm afraid we're not going to have any efficiency because we're going to cut down some of that cake, we're going to distribute it on several sides, and I'm afraid we're not going to have any effectiveness. It's especially said, and I don't know if it's true, there's a deputy minister here to reroute 20 lips to county road administrations. We also know that the county road administrations don't have enough resources, if it were to unite some of the funds to end up in the county road administrations, I say one more time, and then we're essentially watered down, and we're not going to have those funds for highways, neither for the railways, nor for the county road administrations. As far as the future foreign concessionaire is concerned, we are witnessing on the highway of St. The Začretje-Krapino cross has a foreign concessionaire who has set his terms by taking over the highway, set his prices, reduced the number of employees and what is very important in the contract said this way if certain revenues are not made on that highway, Croatia is obliged to make up for that very difference. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that's the way it's gonna be with this future concessionary, and we need to take care of that. And that's why we're just against concessions on the highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61051	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61052	Thank you. So when you were talking about county roads, then you are, here I will only point out that the amount in this year for county roads is 50% lower. So, the county road administrations were left with no amount of 120 million kuna to be allocated to them this year but unfortunately they were left without that amount, they were halved, although they account for 69% of the sorted roads in the Republic of Croatia. And here I agree with you that county roads absolutely need help in financing. But it happens exactly the opposite. They won't get more than they get and less. This year, the funds for the county roads have simply been cut in half. But that's how it's general. I remember a announcement of decentralisation of Croatia that was in Plan 21 of the Kukurik coalition. Remember when they said that 9 out of 10 kunas would not come into the state budget anymore, and 1 kuna only to local units, counties, municipalities, cities, etc. And then they said we're going to increase that amount by 100% so it's not just 1 kuna tax coming into local self-government units, it's going to be 2 kunas. However, none of it today. And that's why we have problems in a number of local self-government units because there's no decentralisation. So Croatia is among the three most centralised countries in the EU. What countries are there with us? They are certainly not developed, but Greece and Bulgaria. Greece, Bulgaria and Croatia are the three most centralised countries which mostly contribute to tax revenues so directly to the state budget rather than decentralisation. Well, it's all clear from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61053	Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, you were talking about the problem of continuing to build the Podravska Ipsilon, so here I have to say that I don't think there's going to be any problem since that part of the Križevci section is still working intensively to Farkaševec towards Bjelovar, and since that road has moved from the highway category to the fast road where no toll charges will be made, so it seems to me that there should be no problem here in this section right now. It seems to me that since the funds are being redistributed this way, these works could be expected to continue towards Koprivnica and Bjelovar. But the part that's very important and what you were talking about when you were expressing concern about what would happen to the highways, so look at this government, I would definitely call it political fiscal violence against local levels or some other institutions in the state. Namely, first of all, the law is passed where you're prevented from having money, so I'm closing your pipe to get the funds you just had, and then after that, it's proven to you that you can't live because you don't have enough resources. It also goes towards local self-government in fiscal decentralisation which is not available, so at this point it is heading towards the Croatian highways and preparing a story for normal monetization where money will be spent again for consumption, there will be no new jobs, and in the end, people will lose their jobs there now. This is what is very dangerous in this part and where you rightly have concerns because I think something like that is going to happen, that this will be one of the evidence why Croatian highways can no longer work alone, why they are no longer able because someone has previously passed the law to remove funds from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61055	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61056	Thank you. I hope that this will not be left on what I think, I hope that this truly Podravska ipsilon will indeed end because the responsible authority is acting and continuing the projects that have begun. In that sense, I hope it ends. But it is also about the general directions that are in Croatia that need to be completed and that need to raise the standards of our citizens. And when you talk about decentralisation not only reduces resources but also imposes new obligations. That's an even bigger problem. Someone tells you that you as a unit of local self-government have to worry about it, that and that, and it does not provide you with income from the tax that is collected in the Republic of Croatia. So how will you carry out those obligations? That's what this is about. It is that they are imposed on the units of local self-government that they really need to care about, but on the other hand they are not brought down from the state level so that they can indeed and can really worry about having a financial basis so that they can really simply meet all the obligations that these same laws impose on them. I personally believe that all the units, or almost all of them, let's leave one possibility that some have not even justified their existence, but all the units regarding our county and the least of the municipalities that are fiscal and weaker and which are not sufficiently developed have absolutely justified their existence. If it hadn't been for those chiefs who were really trying everywhere and finding a number of ways to implement projects that were vital to them. Be assured that those units of local self-government that they used to be under wouldn't have done anything, because they haven't done anything before. What a certain community of municipalities or a large municipality would do to create a water line that needs to be built today, she did nothing. So some basic infrastructure things aren't made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61057	Time's up. The last replica Ivan Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61058	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Matušić, you well said, the Dubrovačko-Neretva County families do not have railway infrastructure, are not connected to the rest of Homeland railways, have no highway, often in winter have no connection with Dion because of the frequent storm but unfortunately in winter we do not have a connection to the fast ferry line Dubrovnik-Rijek that has always existed, twice a week connected Dubrovnik with the rest of the state, but unfortunately this government has abolished our privileges as well. You said the detachment in the railways that Dubrovnik does not have, so you would suggest instead of three lips that we separate into the railways that these limes are directed towards subsidising the ferry line of Ploce-Trpanj in a 100% amount for the inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County until the construction of the Peljega Bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61059	The answer to the line by Frano Matušič.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61060	Thank you. My name is my colleague, and I have failed to say that the fast line from Rijeka to Dubrovnik has also unfortunately been lifted in some parts of the year. It's not three limes, it's a little bit more lip, so it's 401 limes that are rising on Croatian highways as far as I'm concerned I'd like all these limes to be directed towards Dubrovnik-Neretva County and specifically from these funds, that 40 lipa is actually about 900 million kuna. This could also finance the Pelješki bridge and continue to build the highway and, of course, could subsidize the fast shipping lines or ferry lines that are absolutely necessary to get the far south out of isolation before there is a final solution with the Pelješki bridge, but at the same time access roads, access roads bridge. Therefore, access roads both on the one hand and on the other from Obuzen towards Komarevo and on the other hand from Dola a new Pelješka road, i.e. repairing the road of present and partly building new parts of the stock that would actually mean a better life not only for the citizens of the Pelješac, but also for Korčula and Mljet, is both indirect for all islands and Lastovo in the end, so in that sense. Here I would like the promise made by the minister that by 1.7 there will be three shares in the work of the Peljeka road fixed to welcome the season to be realized. Unfortunately, there was only one small part that was, for example, the least bad and which was least demanding, and in any case, there were those promises that were made before the season that would surely be completed by 1.7 and why would they believe that anything else would happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61061	Until the break, we will hear the debate of Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we hear more than once here selling highways. The same, on your part to talk about selling, none of the government of the ministry said they'd sell the highway. I don't think those inventions would be good because a lot of untruths stay the same day, in the people it used to be. But it's not the first, not the last time. We're talking county roads that we didn't give. Let us remember that last year, the extraordinary Croatian road and ministry gave 400 million county roads to improve road traffic. We are really insulated in traffic in southern Croatia. I pass 1,300km every weekend and I can say that it is not pleasant to drive by and it is SDP and HDZ's fault, it is the SDP's fault that in 2002, when it didn't end until the end of its 2003 mandate, it was the complete highway. It is really the SDP's fault because in those two years it has not completed the complete highway of Croatia. There are by portals here we can also see colleagues who are great stories and concerns for the Croatian south, taking pictures, opening, I have nine calls where I was invited to open various parts of the highway in our county. Here's what I'm going to say now, Dubrovnik-Ossioner, 11th of May 2009, big pompous work starts, works open, 30 km of road, I think there was an investment of 3 billion and 700 million, a deadline for carrying out work for 30 months. Maybe it's over, but we don't see it. Maybe there's something, there's something going on, we can't see it. Let's remember why it's not all over? Let's remember the bridge on the Koran, 7 million euros, remember the exit of Vučevica for whom, if it's a legitimate investment, remember the annex contract to Vrgorac about three billion, remember the Amazon forest around Vrgorca-Rapca, there that money we gave for that road. Let's think of a nice, beautiful resort outside the board how much money was spent here, 60 million people have really made good money for it. All of this for the above-mentioned moves Croatia has, the south has remained isolated. And with such a policy, we also destroyed a lot of construction firms because these companies, some of them had large funds of which they didn't plan, and suddenly they cut off the work on the Vrgorac-Ploče road. A colleague talked today full of mouths, and we didn't end up on short notice. Let us remember how much we stayed there and that they had not left the businesses of these jobs but had to be paid a lot of compensation so that they could leave so that the road could be finished. And a colleague when we accepted the spatial plan of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, in that plan, did not raise their hands, and the plan envisaged the construction of the Pelješka bridge, the construction of highways, the fast roads, the improvement of road infrastructures in the wider area. A total of 1,39km of roads were to be made in that plan. On these shares were 49 objects that were to be installed in the track, 9 bridges, viaducts of a total length of about 12 thousand and some meters, 14 tunnels of smaller, smaller species, 5 overpasses, 21 underpasses. It was all planned to build that. Now we need to move to the realisation of the programme and I think I am satisfied with the government and the ministry's plan to go now soon to Dubrovnik Airport where 200m euros will be spent. It's been going for a while, you need to spend it in that airport. Also investing 400 million in these three years on the fast road Dubrovnik airport. And today I am at a position that I have said several times and in the county assemblies and this SDP Assembly has submitted a plan and imagined the Pelješki bridge and SDP with its coalition partners will end it. It will only end it in one correct way that it will be transparent, much cheaper and much more adapted to this time. Here, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61063	Thank you. We've got three lines reported, so we'll hear them at 3:00 p.m., and now I'm advertising a break. It's 13:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61064	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The replica of Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61065	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Marelić, I listened carefully to your debate, and I did not forget what you were talking about, and among other things you talked about the successes of this government and the beginning of some projects. So you say and you say you have about 20 calls for rock foundations. You said it was very pompous, probably food and drink. So you see what I wish you for the sixth time today and every time I answer and say Croatian teachers and teachers unfortunately this Christmas will not celebrate much with food or drink, it will be modestly celebrated. And you know very well why my colleague, because here they have been denied their earned travel expenses. These are teachers and teachers who travel a hundred miles outside of their place of residence to educate our children. That's really embarrassing, you have to agree with that. And it's not even social. I mean, you have to agree with that, too. And not only that, they're not just teachers, well said a colleague here took all that and doctors. And they can't finish those projects, so somehow it's better for everyone because 355,000 is unemployed and they don't have Christmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61066	My colleagues, we have completely offended our Rules of Procedure because there is no debate here at all about Christmases or teachers, we are discussing the Law of the Roads. I guess my colleague didn't even talk about it. Replication response, Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61067	My colleagues really misheard, I didn't say at all that I had now received invitations to open now but I had calls to open earlier which were more helpful that you said there was eating and drinking, and I didn't go to any of them because I knew there was nothing to do with that job. And that's how it happened later. And I'm up to not being there once because I knew it was just blurring my eyes before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61068	Frano Matušić, not present. Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61069	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, here you have in your discussion at one point said among your projects you have also listed the Vučevica knot. Since I'm from that area, I need to tell you a few things just for your information. In 2002, we launched this initiative and with Muhammad Choklat, which you probably know who was the adviser in the government of Ivica Racan about the highways we agreed with him to build that knot. In fact, on the highway between Prgomet and Dugopolje there was a planned knot but then that no road was built for two years so that the knot was skipped and we just got back on Mr. Choklat's initiative and put that knot on. In addition to this node, the Split-Dalmatia County's spatial plan on 500 hectares provides for an economic zone, a technological park and a tunnel through Kozjak which is also in the spatial plan of both Split-Dalmatia County and the town of Kaštela, as well as in the area of the economic zone on 4 units of local self-government – in the area of Solina, Kaštel, the municipality of Lečevica and the municipality of Klis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61070	Replication response, Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61071	... Comrade Sanader, we know how many cars a day go, and it's not just one of those pearly investments. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: microphone.]] We know that we had investments of 3 billion and 700 million, which I just said about Dubrovnik and Ossunik. We paid a lot of compensation there because it wasn't done, the contract was signed and the funds weren't secured. And this government paid big funds, we could secure a lot of, a lot of more referendums with those money we gave for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61072	We're continuing the debate. Vice President Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61073	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Namely, it's $1.20. Under the previous proposal, the 60 June bill went to Croatian highways, 60 for Croatian roads. We may have been able to bring together a debate on Croatian railways, a bill of law, because these 20 limes that have not gone to railway infrastructure in this Road Act. But maybe another time more understanding. Namely, why did I answer for the debate? First of all, for a number of reasons. I wanted to maybe answer some of the debates that were heard in the assembly today. There are some things that do not have a foothold in this bill, they do not have a foothold in the whole bill that remains. And I would also like to draw attention to what is fundamental, to be a fundamental thread of leadership and to be a proposing, means a complete overall financial situation, above all, in our budget. So there are very valid reasons why we believe that we are all in agreement. Namely, it was first heard in the debate why not a highway to Dubrovnik? I agree, yes. Why not the highway to Sisak? Yeah, why don't the Yellow Lock Cross that, I agree, I support. I'd also like to hear ways of funding from where? Who will finance it, but before that, I am also interested in what is in some way and what will determine us in future times as to the construction of roads, sustainability issues, but above all the cost-effectiveness of the physicality of the road building itself. I agree that with certain conclusions and suggestions that could be read as proposals from the debate, whether 4 strips, 5 strips or enough 2 or 3 to be a fast road, that it does not have to be highways. I could also underline a full debate in the morning as a debate on my city council where there were many demands, many proposals, but I did not hear a proposal on where to raise the funds. What I wanted to say was, first of all, look around a little bit and the current law, the opportunity is, maybe someone was manifesting themselves in the work and discussing something. It's about unclassified roads. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking just for the reason that here's 20 limes per the proposal for highways, 80 for Croatian roads, before it was 60. Whether in this part of the distribution or allotment of these 20 limes or 40 as far as it goes from one place to another it may be necessary for the county road administrations to intervene to improve the situation on local, county roads, means on all public categorized roads, whether there may be a certain area and for unclassified roads, or maybe it is waiting for us in some other periods I hope not too long. Why am I saying that? So for the first reason we see that the Ministry of Regional Development has a draft proposal for regionalisation of Croatia, we have a proposal for a Law on Regional Development. I hope that this famous development index, which was still in the previous law as such, is finally going to be a measure of development. Could be in some way expected for roads. Namely, why am I talking? I speak specifically one piece of information in the area of my unit of local self-government, about 340 kilometers of unclassified roads, state roads, state road one passing, it's somewhere in the distance of maybe 10 km, county roads about 60 km. They all have state roads and county and local roads have their own incomes or sources of financing. However, on these 340 km of unclassified roads owned by a local self-government unit, there are no dedicated revenues other than the municipal fee as stated by the Law on the municipal economy, a communal contribution, which I certainly believe that you will agree with me is not enough. The law says that unclassified roads are publicly well in general use. Maybe I should have told me to change it or redefine it in a way that at least one piece, gave it 5 lipas, given the new regionalization, the indices of the development of certain cities and municipalities, because by these trafficlers you'll agree with me, not hovering over them, but driving around them. The same is true of our citizens who pay the most through the price of fuel and through registration, unfortunately, in the units of local self-government, none of that money comes. What I would still like to mention, and it also concerns unclassified roads, is maybe thinking when going into that regionalisation, which I think is a good thing that maybe in some way a united management of all roads is a public good, too, except that they are not categorized as public roads to go and be one management system, one management system, maintenance under a far more professional supervision than certain units of local self-government can do. Take an example of a small municipality, a few thousand residents who cannot have an adequate infrastructure, whether they can find employment as a communal director, who is responsible for maintaining unclassified roads under the Law of Communal Directorates. Don't let God of evil happen, who's to blame on that unclassified road. These are clean, I use the opportunity of some thinking, of course, that the budgets of the local self-government are also aware of the situation and we invest a lot of course as much as our options but I say, one little help, one security factor, a certain percentage that would be isolated, whether it's from the excise work, whether it's from as it goes to Countys from registration, insurance, but I would like to, of course, if in these circumstances of the state budget I don't expect, but at least in the coming periods, next year to consider it and to start to be far more quality and longer thought about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61074	Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61075	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, here's everything you've been saying in principle about unclassified roads, and that part, of course, absolutely, and I can agree with that as any of the people who were in the local self-government were or were. However, I am a little surprised by your inconceivability that you are an integral part of the group that has prepared this law. So I'm surprised you have so many questions so we don't have any more questions. But let's just say I answered the line when you said that maybe there was supposed to be a united debate with these two laws, these two changes since it was about 1.20kn. Well, it makes sense to me that the debate isn't united. It makes sense to me because this is how it turns out to actually reduce the remuneration paid by citizens in this part and in that part of the second part, of course it's not getting smaller, so it looks a little bit nicer. But it's really not normal, and here I agree with you absolutely that you pay for those who drive along the road for the railroad and that those at the local level on unclassified roads have nothing to do with it. And even more abnormally, the funds are practically channelled to one side and then the situation can come again that the minister without regulations, without certain rules, distributes a few hundred million kunas per party coat as it was made with those 400 one 60 million kunas when the ZUCs were allocated funds and many others were cut short for those funds. And today, they still have to give extra money and sign agreements to compensate for what was spent on road rescues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61076	The reply to the replica of Vice President Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61077	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely colleague Hrg why I suggested a united debate if, I mean, for technical reasons. We have 1.20kn, 20 goes to the railway, 1kn 80+20 stays on Croatian roads. If we're looking technically, financially, that was the reason. However, what we do not hold in our debates as a whole of the Rules of Procedure, so one debate that was to be completed, united within an hour and a half as much as possible on the subject, here will take some more, I don't know how many minutes. As far as you're concerned, it's incomprehensible how it's arranged, it's a excise charge, it's a tax income. And here you will agree with me that this is the autonomy of the resolution ministry and the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on which these funds will benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61078	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61079	Here is counterpart Batinić, I was just talking about this topic this morning and you probably know that 26964 kilometers of roads, Croatian highways, Croatian roads and county roads. And of those 26 thousand 18680 are county roads. All of them are classified, so without these unclassified ones. And that's exactly what it's supposed to be. We say it would be good if one part of the funds were allocated to county roads because, you're probably familiar with working at the local administration that in the 6th month the government cut in half with 240 million kuna given to county roads, it was taken off at 120 million. And you know that rule, because we, county roads, part of the cost, get the main part of the income from the registration. That it was the 2003 law. In the meantime, the price of fuel, asphalt, bitumen has increased so many times. And in general, inflation went up and this resulted in county roads, i.e. County Road Administration, which worry about it today not being able to keep up quality and new investments working. Well, that would be logical and it would be good for you from the ruling majority, because your amendment has a chance to pass by and to help local regional administrations, county road administrations to suggest that 10 of these 80 Croatian roads be cut to 10 of them for county road administrations because that's the only way to save the situation in regional administration and how to help units because those 120 million now remaining from excise duty can be reduced tomorrow. And you say excise duty is national. Well, because that's how we decided that the excise duty goes to the Ministry, i.e. Croatian roads or highways. And this House can decide otherwise. You're in position so come on, here's an appeal to your mind and conscience, suggest this amendment because he has a chance to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61080	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61081	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Sanader, I'm glad you agreed to my debate. In fact, I always try to look objectively at the circumstances and the facts. However, also again, what you may have heard, we must look at this law and the budget of the Republic of Croatia and put you in the context of the time and space in which we are. I was talking in my debate whether maybe organisational, reorganization, all undermining under one regional company, that's my thinking, I don't have to be right. But I'm open to dialogue just for reasons, because just as some of the ZUCs may have been good, efficient, correct, there was so much negativity, that's where you'll agree with me. Whether it was the influence of regional, local policies on them, that negative context, I also believe that you will agree with me. That's why, if you go and I believe you'll go to regionalization, I'm convinced there's space. And I said that certain units of local self-government do not have a qualification structure that can work quality on maintaining or designing or initiating the construction of unclassified roads. In that context, I thought it meant uniting the system, not centralization, but quality. And here I think there's room in the reorganization of the ZUCs, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61082	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61083	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you said that you were well aware that with the question of where the funds will be raised for all these wild desires and the realization of new highways and new roads. But then the question arises where will the funds that are being abolished by this law come from? In fact, the subsidy budget is reduced by railways. This will be compensated by the redistribution from this bill, but this bill takes a billion kunas to Croatian highways. How these billions of kunas that are now missing by Croatian highways will move forward. Or maybe we shouldn't move them, maybe we shouldn't make up for it, but then the question is how will Croatian highways operate without those billions of kunas because they are being denied the funds already planned. How, in short of a billion kuna, will the goals set be achieved, let alone a strategy? It is impossible or perhaps not necessary to achieve goals, or perhaps there are no goals at all. This is all about the questions raised in this bill. There may also be extra funds theoretically in the Croatian highways, so we can take away a billion kunas which is impossible to believe. That is why this bill is unacceptable to me and imposes in one part and damage, for one benefit, but greater harm than benefit. And everything seems to me to be doing this to cover up, to embellish and to make up the state budget because it reduces to God's expenditures seemingly, and they increase in these other ways of debt and even granting guarantees for loans. It only fictitiously reduces and improves the state budget or reduces the expenditures of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61084	Replication response, Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61085	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Marić, how much budget as a proposing you proposed that legalization' you had the chance to be a proponent of the budget, you did not. Okay. Namely, you have in Chapter 4-Reasons for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure very clearly defined, explained what was said at the outset, means the consolidation of the budget, but also something else that writes. Whether this deficit will reflect, I suppose. To what extent? It means whether it is necessary to restructure certain sectors, namely I believe it is. However, I would also like support, even if it doesn't have to be, when it comes to reform, about restructuring, completely when we talk about the public sector, means everything that's being financed from public money that's when reforms are heard, there's no restructuring, there's nothing, and when you create preconditions like this, it means when you go into something then there's a dissent. Well, there I'd like a little bit, though, to agree that perhaps the minister is as short as was said or too little here, to open up some thematic discussions in that direction. I agree, I stand for it, but we have to decide if we want to reform any reform is easy. No reform is easy, no public sector restructuring is easy and we need to be aware of the consequences that await us at the time. But it's not something that happens overnight, it's processes that last. Here's the process, we can automatically say that certain processes started with these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61086	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61087	Thank you. Comrade Batinić, you have actually noticed what we have been saying all morning, which is that municipalities and small municipalities of course cannot finance unclassified roads. They don't have the capacity, they don't have the income, and why don't they? Well, among other things, because you haven't realised your promise from Plan 21 to Kukuriku coalition. One of the promises you made is decentralisation and increasing tax revenues to municipalities, cities and counties. There you said that so far there has been 1 kuna of 10 kuna tax revenues, that only 1 kuna went to the local self-government, and 9 kuna to the state and you announced, nicely said in your plan 21 that there will be no more than 1 kuna but that it will go 2 kuna, which would mean 100% increase in tax revenues to local self-government units. But the promise of insane joy seems to be based on your behavior. And you seem to be neglecting the fact that this is about a late draft of the law and which is only the result of the government's failure that did not prior to the proposal of the state budget changed this law in a way that would cover the dubiosis in the Croatian Railways and on the other hand to actually sell out Croatian highways and then, of course, destroy the Croatian highway institution and actually compromise any plan, the strategy for further development of transport infrastructure, so further construction of highways in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61088	Replication response, Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61089	Thank you, Madam Vice President. counterpart Matušić, yes, decentralisation, is one of the programmes of this coalition, but I also believe that you are familiar with the process of decentralisation and how much it requires a series of other processes and a series of activities when going into something like that. I believe that you have also read the draft law on regional development that gives certain contures of decentralisation. We are in favour of decentralisation, but also not only financially but also the authority of those funds. Whether that decentralisation means abolishing, I would not say abolishing but removing different powers within certain units of local self-government. I believe so, and I believe you feel the same way. In fact, if we look at the Local Self-Government Units Act there, I don't know which article says that the statutes of the local self-government determine the part-time work. We have a law that therefore entangles the city of Zagreb and I will show in the former Municipality of Ivanec, the Municipality of Donja Voća for 2,500 inhabitants who simply have no financial means to pay, that the chief even travel expenses covers. However, they also have everything that is stated in the law, they have their statutes. Has anyone before, before the government, thought in this direction and suggested to them what to do and how to do? It's not. So it's definitely time, you'll agree with me that we have to work and start working on it intensively. I see this proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development as a start. And we also need to be aware that this is a process that will last two, three, five. I would be happy if until the next local elections and one and another future government, it would be done together and we would go to the next local elections with a brand new structure or an identical structure. I'm not in favour of abolishing the municipalities, but of redefining the jurisdiction of certain municipalities and local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61090	Thank you. Comrade Josip Boric, here's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61091	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. So here's what I'm gonna say about this law. The law we've changed three times a year. That's a fact. We only changed one law three more times in a year, which is the Law on Higher Education, Science and Higher Education. Unfortunately, and after the third time, it's inconclusive. I don't know why three times. For the first time in the second month, we changed this law. It is then explained that we must do this for the sake of a smooth continuation of the implementation of start-up investment projects. There were then four billion projects that were blocked, 12 frozen projects to be launched in some way, and there was a dispute between the Podravi ipslon that was built as a highway, so it was made possible to re-ategorise so it was no longer a highway but a fast road. And from the second month to now, the question is, what happened to these projects? We don't see that swing in the building. Some of the companies to whom this was concerned today are still in pre-departure settlement and have not finished it, and the law has changed. Then in the fourth month, we made a more complete amendment to the same law, we applied some provisions of various directives, and there is a provision for a traffic safety auditor. I don't know if the Ministry found him, named him. The fact is, a few days ago, there was a terrible accident with three dead, 17 injured, 11 of which were severe. Is that man ever appointed or will he be able to say what he thinks about it and who's to blame for what's going on on the highways? And now 11 months of re-law on roads, re-changes and additions, I'd say the Law on the monetization of highways. I think this is actually going to be our only chance in the House to talk about monetization because the government has taken the process entirely upon itself. We don't know what's going on with that process, and it's just as hard as they say 20 billion kuna, if not 80 if they're going to talk about a 50-year concession. Obviously, these methods of trying and making mistakes are some of the characteristics that are happening in this government, and I don't see any quality. I don't think they're very good for the transport sector. I think we need to know at the beginning of the year where we want to end that year and what's waiting for us in the next few months, not every few months, to change the law as necessary as anyone remembers, and this is what the Minister of Finance announced to us on the budget. No one else talked about the amendments to this law until the finance minister said when we had a rebalancing that it would have to be applied before we adopted the 2014 budget. We all know that the functions of roads and highways today have already been talked about integrating space, increasing maximum traffic safety and certainly faster flow of people and goods. Have Croatian highways and roads secured this over the past ten years? So I think a large part of it has been done, but the space is not integrated entirely and with justification today, colleagues from Dubrovnik-Neretva County express their suspicion and their fears about whether this space will ever be integrated into the entire transport system of the Republic of Croatia. And in order to ensure that we certainly have to provide road management companies and highways of revenue that can make it happen year after year what I said. And that's where we came up with the funding model that changes these laws. They're telling us so far we're one kuna and twenty divided by two. That was okay, that's good. But now we're going to divide it into three, and we're going to get even better. We are introducing HZ infrastructure into financing and therefore we want to encourage the development of railway infrastructure. Can we be against it? That's a big question. Why? Are we going to take the roads to help so many railroads and get the same quality space to advance? Are we going to help the Croatian Railways with any new investments? Is 400 million kuna enough to withdraw from the EU funds of billions? Is this really a rescue injection to Croatian railways that we hear from day to day that they are in complete collapse especially the part that refers to HZ Cargo. These are all issues such as those asked to Croatian citizens what they think about monetization. And also the question of what they think about sales, what they think about concessions and cost-effectiveness. 62% thinks highways are built with citizens' money, and it's not right for a concessionary to profit from them now. 60% consider highways national treasure and believes that they should not be given to foreigners to work with them, and 47% of those surveyed think that longer-term profitability is more important than money that would reduce credit, i.e. the total public debt of the Republic of Croatia. These are the percentages that speak clearly about the mood of Croatian citizens in the matter of monetisation. We've heard it a few times today, and I'll do it again. We expect to earn about 3.2 billion euros from this monetization and that we are ready to give a concession for 50 years. 50 years is a long, long deadline. For 50 years, two or three states have changed. For 50 years, 10 or 12 governments will change, just as many presidents. It is indeed a time limit in which we must be in great need, and we must be very clear about it and think about what it brings us. Are we ready to take 20 billion just to say that our debt, public debt, will not be more than 200 billion as far as it has reached the end of this year, and we will say at the end of the term, here we are not so in debt, but here we are somewhere at 200 billion, so it's worth putting those highways in a concession? How can we even explain that when we divide that 3 billion into 50 years, that's about 64 million euros a year? Are we going to monetize the highway for $480 million a year? And we know that their income is a billion and 700 million kuna a year only from toll, yes. Only from the toll. Let's not talk about... which is also somewhere close to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are we ready for that? What's the use of knowing that when they monetize that we're not going to pay back the whole loan, that we're going to keep paying the loan and that whoever wants to invest is talking about funds, pension funds, foreign investors, what are we going to tell them? They'll collect profits and compensation. What is the safety of those who work in these companies? Will the Zagreb Airport happen to us? That we're going to get an X company and five company ipsylons where workers don't know whose employees they are anymore, do X companies or five company ipsylons? And of course they're wondering where our future is tomorrow? Are we going to have that not only in HAC, but also in the ARZ that go together in the package? The minister said these money will be returned to loans, other unfavourable loans, the state. So it's not just about highways. And that's what worries. So we have a dedicated part of it when we take the funds to monetize, we return some other loans. And says the state will share profits with the concessionaire if traffic increases, but also loss if traffic falls. What do the data show? They show that this year, given last year's 15% increase in tolls in the 6th month, the number of cars in 9 months is 15% lower than last year, but also revenues slightly higher than last year. It means that a system within which a billion and 750 or a billion and 800 million kuna must have been created annually. And we're willing to give it to someone to get those one-timers to say so divided into 50 years of 480 million kuna. Who's making money here? What are the intentions of those who think about it? I don't know, I guess there's a lot to talk about because this monetization story can't end with a debate about this Public Roads Act. And certainly the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to know what it refers to. HAC's revenues this year, 2011 are around 2 billion and 800, which means tolls of a billion and 250 and a excise fee of a billion and 430 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61092	Thanks, buddy. You'll continue, you've got plenty of replicas. Branko Bacic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61093	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Our colleague Boris and you are, and throughout the morning, in the debate, we have found that this law practically establishes a model that will destroy a quality well-designed system of financing Croatian highways, and unfortunately it will not create and contribute to a new system of financing for the construction of railway infrastructure. And it's a fundamental remark to this law, which destroys something that was good and does not establish anything good. And that's a fact. Second thing, you're talking about responsibility. So I must say that when it comes to events in the Croatian transport system, unfortunately the word responsibility remains a pure demagogue flossula. In fact, a few days ago, there was a terrible tragedy on the A1 highway where three people died at the exit from the Krpani tunnel. I have not heard that it is in the Croatian public that there is a question of the responsibility of those responsible in the system, from the director of highways to the minister, and let us remember what was before when a terrible tragedy occurred, though railways, on the Zagreb-Split track above Kaštel when the minister was asked for responsibility. So I would like to remind you that these days, there has been a terrible tragedy in Latvia where, due to the collapse of a roof of a supermarket, a shopping centre was resigned by the prime minister of Latvia feeling responsible for the collapse of the roof at a supermarket. In the Republic of Croatia, there is no question about the Prime Minister or the Minister when it comes to his responsibility when it comes to what happened on the A1 highway because here it is to the boredom of the knowledge that we still have the guilt of non-polluting the ice that was on the way out of the tunnel itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61094	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61095	I agree with you, but it is clear to us in these two years that some criteria have been set to HDZ while it was in power, that other criteria for this Kukuriku are power and that simply all achievements have been achieved through various legislative proposals set at a minimum level. It's a lot of talk about a flyer under which I can get through or that I can skip all of them. That's how he talks about responsibility. Because if it were responsibility, we would know a lot more about the monetization process than we know today. It's simply some secret, with which the minister is obviously not clear, because I see him pulling some of his consultants, and the story is very simple for us, and I don't understand why he doesn't want to talk about any other models. Whether we are conscious now through the amendment of this law of the Croatian highway we are bringing into such a problem that the failure of monetization is not possible, means it is not possible. The monetization has to work because otherwise we have to change this law again. We're about to act, so there's no doubt about it anymore. This long-term disrupts the financial capabilities of HAC and if this process of monetization fails, HAC is now much less capable than it was this year, and we do not want to be told about the reprogramme because it is as an impossible thing, the state can reprogram all its loans and long-term liabilities and bonds and all those loans that have long been raised and these latest either HAC or... I can't do one, is that true, is that possible, and neither do we, nor can we hear it here, how so? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61096	Thank you. Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61097	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Borić, you have rightly noticed the skepticism with us from the far south and regarding the continuation of the construction of the transport infrastructure. But it's not a skeptic, it's a simple reality. While this ruling coalition is in power, there will be no further road construction towards Dubrovnik. That's what they said clearly. That said the minister who said it might be built in 2050, fortunately the elections are every few years, and then we will not see the same people and the same parties in power, but while they are in power, they have made it clear that they do not want to build highways any further. And here is the proposal that is ahead of us, which introduces monetization, actually behind which lies the sale of highways in a way that is completely inappropriate, you yourself have set up examples by which the toll is actually collected, far more, several times more than the amount that would be obtained annually for monetization and in that sense absolutely RH enters into an unfavourable position and in fact destroys an institution that could care for the development of transport infrastructure that is the Croatian highway. And then today we even have an opportunity to hear, here's a colleague from the SDP who tells us that they were for the Peljeski bridge, so I think we forgot what they were saying in 2009, 2010, 2011 at the budget when they were specifically against the bridge, when they said it was a project for fools, their mayors, their coalition members said it was a project for fools, to convince us that it was unnecessary, completely etc., that other solutions would be found, but the bridge would certainly not be branched, and today they convince us that the Croatian public forgets what happened a year, two, three or four years ago. Therefore, it is absolutely inappropriate that in this way, I have already said, this law is the result of the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which obviously wants to cover quickly what they have done with the draft budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61098	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61099	My colleague Matušić, I was saying that the function of highways and roads is to integrate the maximum space of the Republic of Croatia and after ten years we can say that we can come from many parts very quickly to Zagreb, from Dubrovnik unfortunately not except by plane. But the same thing is with us who are in the underground part, the island of Rab, Pag, etc. And we were told in the campaign, it was said, Žuta Lokva, Križiće is something that will happen in Kukurik's term of office, and indeed they have received a respectable 12 parliamentary mandates in such a story. But when the minister came, the first minister unfortunately was here for only two, three months, he left, he left because he publicly said that he was giving up and that it was not something to build, and we know that we are missing the entire highway construction program about six hundred miles away. We lack the largest part of Dalmatia, certainly this part to Dubrovnik, there is then Yellow Lokva 56 km, and Sisak highway 38 km, so Slavonica which is also not complete and that I do not count further. That's what was written a long time ago, and I'd certainly try to make it happen in my abilities. However, we have witnessed that there has been a complete stalemate in the construction, so we changed it in the second month to keep it going because it was all bad or unfavourable. But it didn't go on and really raise the question of what at all the members of the three-member board or in those roads are doing now, if the job of these board members is just to sign the salary, so no more development, no more traffic, no new shares, no construction, everything is stopped, what do we need three-member administrations in these societies if before the justification was for having to control engineers, builders and everything else, what's first?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61100	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61101	Dear fellow Boric, in this part of the debate where you spoke about Croatian highways I absolutely support all of what you said with one more supplement, one additional argument in this story of yours, which is when you mentioned that profit at the annual level that I also read somewhere these days the data that a total of about 700 million kuna is the annual expenditure side or maintenance of highways plus the cost of employees. It just makes it clear that I'm really not gonna say crazy move but I don't think it's that far from going like this to privatise those highways. It's inexplicable to me, but well, who am I to be relevant to, all I think is the expert public, that the profession has told all about it, at least the two who sit around the minister when it comes to that conclusion. What I find controversial and what I disagree with in your debate. I must stress that, but a lot of you on this side have said something that doesn't hold water, and that's whether we're going to help HZ with this? Do you remember this whole time HH buys fuel and separates all the time for Croatian highways? Is that okay? Today's colleague Hrg said that logic is someone driving along the road and separating from the railroad. And what was the logic of all these years is someone riding a train and what kind of trains, which are extremely poor and the people are, the passengers are justifiably revolutionized with that state of HH. But for what? All the time HH's been detaching for highways. And we show how many subsidies are to Croatian railways, which is actually not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61102	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61103	My colleague Novak, but that's exactly why we're troublesome about that part, because if I say we can still think about it, then we can think about the ferry and the ships are also spending oil, gasoline and what they're already spending and they're financing those highways in some way. Then air traffic, all planes, too. Or we can go to smaller groups, we want islanders or just Dubrovnik-Neretva County. But if the system is set up and boasts the other side is set up for their time then we should have left it by ourselves and created further assumptions that the traffic system is integrated. Unfortunately, through monetization, we have one logic of neoliberal capitalism. Risks and costs go to the public sector, so every risk and cost goes to the state and profit is then private. And that's why I'm talking on one side one time 25 billion and in the long run for 50 years it's on the other side 80 billion. What are we gonna do? We'll take 25 billion once. And we'll let 80 people play with them in 50 years. Is he gonna make money? Can we all raise our hands today for him to earn? Well, I believe we're all sure he'll make a living. He wouldn't have gotten into it if he wasn't sure. And the state gives him the guarantee of the other one. There's no risk for him. We give the increase in traffic together but the loss of state chooses to pay for what I lost and you have meant it for me. That's why this monetization story has to be cleared up. Because there are other models. We see what we have in Slovenia, a wine model where they have more income than we do at 1200. What about it? Why don't you explain yourself to us maybe that story too? What about the reprogrammes? Why not that story? So that the Croatian man clearly has three or four options, so let him choose what is best for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61104	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61105	Thank you very much. You told your colleague, Boric, that most Croats have declared that the highway is a national treasure for them. Not only is the national treasure, highways are the only thing Croatia has and is above the European Union's average of quality and level. We have entered the European Union only with highways above the European Union average. And now we need to either destroy the highways or lose them. And this law threatens, Croatian highways are threatened and the idea of concessions is estranged. When you talked about reprogramming the debts of the Croatian highways, there was also refinancing, not just reprogramming. But economic policy must also contain a value system, national economic policy should also include patriotism, which in each country also includes patriotism, which in each country contains except in these areas. And when Germany puts its highways in a concession, then I will agree to a public change of opinion on highway concessions. But the non-building of the Peljek Bridge rules out patriotism. Giving Croatian highways under concession excludes patriotism. Zagreb Airport and concession excludes patriotism. The very idea of it is based on anti-national thinking. But unfortunately, in Croatia, man and patriotism have long lost their price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61106	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61107	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, I said that 60% of them think highways are national treasures and that they should not be given to foreigners, it is research done. And I think that when we look at these polls that talk about the government policy that it's going in, it's not far, it's even worse for the government, 70% thinks we're going in the wrong direction. I think this story is also the wrong way. Because consultant Erste Bank, Deloitte, they chose out of five models the one that guarantees the private investor the fastest profit and gives the state the largest manipulative space. It's the release of these 60 limes on the infrastructure. This is the only model of the concession that allows. All the rest of this law wouldn't change then. That's the whole story. Is there anything you need to do in that section? Because on one side we're given one bad dilemma. Either bad governance as we now testify or on the other side of privatisation. There's no third model. Is that correct for Croatian citizens? I don't think it's possible to fix bad governance, if it's not right for those who run those companies. So if the structure of the employees is also unfavourable and it may well be unfavourable, it is slightly above the standards that exist in the European Union when we at least talk about those who work on maintenance or in the payment system. But that doesn't mean that as citizens we need to keep information secret and that we don't have the right to know a few options, so that's what citizens decide. There were references to referendums especially from one of the cesar unions but something recently, and he gave up on it. Question for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61108	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Boric, the failed fiscal consolidation, the wrong economic policy, the public debt exploded from 46% of GDP stakes to 60% of GDP and then went with the proposal to reduce this share of public debt in GDP, that the only solution to monetize highways, give in concessions, cash or that it will not be called, and then I say in a moment if that doesn't happen we won't have to pay off pensions in the 12th month. So that's one thing. On the other hand, the only ones who had completed their projects and who could give as much work to the fallen Croatian construction operation were Croatian highways, however, very interesting that virtually all investments were stopped and construction sites and practically cold drives were maintained on all highway routes, and now we get a law that clearly states that more Croatian highways do not practically exist. What they received from the share of 60 June in the price of fuel is being re-distributed to Croatian railways and Croatian roads, without getting any analytical background, no monetization, cashing or concession, under which conditions what will happen to the part of the people and HAC that remains at all, why is 400 million kuna left behind, which will be the concept of this new company, so a million and one question which we unfortunately did not get a single answer today, but definitely who raises hands for this law has raised his hand for concession or for selling Croatian highways and stopping all these directions that they are working on at the moment. It's a fact, the truth, and no one can escape from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61110	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61111	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I was preparing for the debate to watch the Strategic Work Plan of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure 2011-2013, this does not say anything that we have in the law. There are clearly targets set that are expected when certain money is spent, that's the strategic plan, so much and so much we'll make new kilometers of roads, highways, etc., port, that I don't list everything that's written there, but this doesn't say. This is something that happened at the end of the year, so when it was seen that simple state finances weren't in good shape, when public debt grew more than it was supposed to, and it reached 200 billion, I project for next year to 215. So if we come to 215 and sell this for 25 we're back to 190, with 50 years of not being able to run the highways. Whether it will help us much or too much I do not know, but that in these societies there is one stable let's say the financial situation in terms of income, it exists because it also shows the data for 2011 and 2012 on the revenues of Croatian highways that only for 2012 say that HAC and... were together only of the tolls had a billion and 760 million kunas of revenue. With a growth rate of 5% per year regardless of 20 thousand vehicles, that is the 15% increase, and that will certainly happen in the next period. At a higher number of kms, it is likely that by joining the Dubrovnik-Neretva County into that system the number of vehicles would be increased, probably financially let's say the income would be higher. But the hay offers us some other option than taking it or taking it again, there's no leaving it. This law says there's no leaving. Public roads i.e. highways go to concessions, it's only a matter of how long and how much money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61112	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61113	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 539. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 3 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Road Law in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61114	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 538 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Mr Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This bill almost dealt with the whole morning, it is very similar to the reasoning discussed in the previous period, so when the amendments to the Law on Roads were amended and it is mainly about the fact that the existing excise duty of 60 liras which has therefore been paid into the account of the Croatian highways is now shared, as we have mentioned several times, on 20 highways, 20 for Croatian roads and 20 for infrastructure. For Croatia, the project of building railway infrastructure is at the very top of the priority, and I must say that this hour on Corridor 5, so on the Rijeka-Zagreb-Hungarian border, works are currently being carried out which are in the design, which is in the reconstruction of the existing railway, which in the construction of a new part of around 2 billion kuna. So about 2 billion kuna is currently being invested in the Rijeka-Zagreb-Hungarian border, which is part of the corridor as you know 5b. And in the next period, so in the period until 2017-2020, it is planned to complete this rail route fully in a way that builds a fast two-way track line that will meet traffic standards over 160 km/h. In the section of the railway from the Hungarian border to Skradnik, so to some extent, the next station behind Josipdol will be built along the existing railway, so another track with its accompanying infrastructure, to be obtained, will be obtained all elements of the flatline. And part of the railway from Skradnik to Rijeka along with the existing track would be built a second track with elements, some elements of the new route on the part of the Gorski Kotar with two new tunnels, where I would like to express myself to iron the steeps, to reduce the rises to achieve, so that there would be geometry that would achieve speed over what I spoke more than 160 kilometers earlier. In order to do so, therefore, to realise this, this programme requires HHG infrastructure which, therefore, is the bearer of the whole of the activity, gives additional potential, financial potential, and for this reason is part of the excise duty now paid on fuel, gasoline, gas oil and the rest of the 20 lipes directs to the HZ infrastructure budget and this would be around 440 million kuna at an annual level. Here are the reasons for the amendments to this law for me, and I suggest that the Croatian Parliament adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61116	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61117	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. You say the fundamental reason for this law, you have concluded with it that funds are being provided so that projects that will be managed by HZ infrastructure, rail corridor 5B from Rijeka via Zagreb to the border with Hungary can be realised. Why do you say two billion kunas this year? I think that all of us here agree that it is necessary to improve, make quality infrastructure, rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, especially European corridors, why we could get money from European funds wherever and where easier than for any corridor. But that's what we're saying in the context that we're providing these money from the funds that were intended for the highway network that you're sending a message that we're closing the highways, for example, towards Dubrovnik so that we can finance the construction of the railway line towards Rijeka as much as that road, there's no reason why the government's discriminatory attitude towards the south of Croatia, because we stopped the only strategic road towards the south of Croatia. This is from your introduction to conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61118	Jaksha Baloevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61119	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Since this law, which we are likely to vote as proposed, is somehow directed towards HH infrastructure. I'd be interested in what happened to HZ Cargo? Namely, it was given in the press that it was sold to a Romanian partner, so I was interested in how far it came if it was sold on the contract and what was the meaning of such a sale. Surely we know that Cargo is of paramount importance to every country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61120	It was more a question than a replica. Young Nova, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61121	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I must admit I'm a little surprised. The whole 100-mile-an-hour section was alive and seen. I'm glad there's someone else here who's on the railroad and who understands the problem. Since two separate colossals are mentioned that make up a parallel rail, somehow the intuition tells me that we're going to have the more equidistant one that's going to be for someone and the other one that's existing, who's going to be known for who. We ask a question and who pays for it? I'm not going like my colleague said before, but I'm going to ask you who pays for it. It pays the same among other things, the same HZ Cargo, which Minister Linic here two days ago found unable to even earn his salary. It pays for that same passenger transport that, with a state guarantee, can't find anyone to be him, to agree to that loan. I mean, really, everything is subordinated to just building the infrastructure that the foreigners are going to drive, and we're going to destroy both of our operators by then. We're doing everything systematically on it. Aren't they also a national interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61122	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent MPs, he should have spoken to a colleague of Cain who he didn't have, so he lost his right and the club at the hearing. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61123	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, It is true that, in its introduction, the Deputy Minister said this law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Railways practically adds to the law that we discussed this morning the law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads. Because the practically fee that will be set up as the railway's revenue is derived from the fee that is to date, i.e. which will still be the income of the Croatian highways by December 31st. However, I do not agree with the deputy minister in the section in which the explicits present information that these funds will be used to build railway infrastructure and that something that has been targeted so far in road infrastructure will now be focused on rail infrastructure. This is not true because so far this same system has been through holding, whether through its daughters has been largely co-financed from the state budget of around 3 billion kuna as it was missing for the complete functioning of this railway transport, because according to data that the World Bank has, in its time, determined on 1 earned kuna that is being made in the railway system, it is necessary for the entire system to function from the state budget to allocate 2.5 kuna. Therefore, it is true that this system lacks funds, and it is particularly lacking in the moment that we are reducing funds by state budgets year by year to year to that same system, and I also said that, in the introduction of that law, we have today reduced the revenues and subsidies of the state budget by a billion and 600 million kuna. Whatever restructuring of the Croatian Railways, however well they do, and do not operate, this figure, this amount, cannot be compensated by such restructuring and better operation of the system itself. And that's clear. And since there is no more funding in the state budget, there is no possibility of that amount of compensation then the government has found a convenient way to make compensation from the system that has so far been directed towards road traffic reroute to the railways, and here it also writes in the light of this law on the p. 2. transferable losses and the difference between income and expenditure achieved until the entry into force of the applicable law of the company HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. will compensate for the burden of public capital which is through non-taxable giving, such as this fee will now allow how much this system works, and not because the funds do not have these funds it now continues direct investment in the rail infrastructure system itself. And the Croatian government's commitment as owner of the company HZ infrastructure stems from a management contract signed by the minister, I assume, with the director of HZ infrastructure. And there's nothing controversial about it. The government should keep in mind that the transport system so that it is roadside, whether it works impeccably or as far as possible better, impeccably and thus the traffic system does not work with us. This is completely legitimate, but that should be said clearly, and that is what we are trying to say at the HDZ Club that the government, in the absence of funds in the state budget, is clothing that hole and resources to the Croatian railways from now on because they are not in the budget, will provide them with funds that have been so far through the payment of a fee of 1.2 kuna per litre of fuel will be rerouted to the railway. Here, and that's clear. Now we're just asking if it's for those citizens who expected that based on such a 12-year separation for the construction of that highway system, whether they're now being brought into an unequal discriminatory relationship because they're not going to get the desired highway, and they're not going to get the railroad anyway because they don't have it. So it's a matter of justification that we want to ask here. And that the construction of the highway system will not continue tells us that we have taken a billion kunas on an annual basis to build highways now with these amendments to the law. And this is how he tortured that system to settle loans and couldn't, and you can think that now that this system is going to work when we get him a billion kuna, how it's only now possible to complete that network of highways that's been put in place together. I agree in one part with Mr Novak that it is not justified that operators who drive the tracks may pay compensation for the use of public roads and then it is the income of Croatian roads or Croatian highways, and then it is not the construction of HZ infrastructures of railways, railways in Croatia, but the construction of highways. It may be unfair from the operator's point of view but it is the Republic of 2001 or '99. since the adoption of the Transport Organisation Strategy, the Republic of Croatia has established that the construction of the highway network is at that time a priority and is then established. And I believe that's how it's done well and done. I don't mind that we in Croatia today find that HZ infrastructure that we need colossions, construction of VB Corridors, construction of VC Corridors, editing of the Lika railway line at the port of Croatia was Dubrovnik, Split, Ploč, Sibenik, Zadar and Rijeka, so if it is our priority to agree to this and bring one consensus to the Croatian Assembly among all political parties and move towards a project of financing railway infrastructure. But we can't because we need it and we believe that we need it for the economic development of Croatia to say it publicly here in the Parliament and pass this law but we are leaving the construction of the highway. Because for those who don't have those highways, it's hard to agree. It's the law that's unfair. It's not fair to us. However, even if this law came in such a text to the Parliament as the government proposed it then it should have done differently. We seem to have passed the Law on Railways before the summer, we have passed the Law on Railways where we said that the government will first adopt a national programme to build railway infrastructure, not even the Parliament but the Government, that it will bring the programme. I'm asking Mr. Secretary, has this program been passed? Mr. Deputy Minister, did you bring the National Programme for the Construction of Railway Infrastructure? Then we said that in the medium term we would bring in a medium-term plan to build national infrastructure and that it would be brought by the infrastructure manager HZ infrastructure, with the agreement of the two ministries, was the plan adopted? Then it is said that an annual construction plan will also be brought back by the HZ infrastructure manager, with the agreement of this time only the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison, has this document been adopted? If you brought those three documents and we in the House don't know if you're the Railway Act that we don't need to know anything about it as parliamentary deputies, so I don't even know anything about whether they've been passed, but if you've passed them, then this law accepts, no matter how discriminatory it is, that it's not good, that it stops building highways, but if you've implemented these three documents that you've proven that what you're proposing is okay, then I'd raise my hand for this law. In this case, when you pass a law like this where you tear down your own strategy of the spatial order of the Republic of Croatia, where you said in May that you would complete the construction of a network of highways by this law, you become unbeliefable and say that the strategies are only necessarily an evil that you have to make but that the laws that are done are then absolutely bounced from such a declared attitude that is defined by the strategies in the Republic of Croatia, this is how the ad hoc law was passed a little bit during the morning, Mr Shucker said, that those funds that we have wrongly taken from the Croatian railways and significantly reduced the subsidies from the state budget now through the public capital that we are carrying out through this compensation that was intended for an extremely good project and we will not create another good project to finance the construction of railway infrastructure. And that's why we at the HDZ Club can't agree. And otherwise, when we talk about HZ, whether the system or the manager of the railway infrastructure or the operators, it is entirely out of line with this declared law and behaviour of the Croatian Government's relationship with HZ Kargo, if we want to strengthen HZ Kargo, if we want to give him a new position from the aspect of the government which is still the owner of this HZ Kargo, I still don't understand why HZ-Kargo then went to an unnecessary project of buying colossus on the cereals, so to raise a loan of 15 million kuna and I hold it that according to the applicable Law on Railways by this government this same HZ Kargo cannot be the owner of the infrastructure. So it can't be the owner of the infrastructure, but it can only be the owner of the Republic of Croatia, or its own company, which is HZ infrastructure. If HZ infrastructure were to go into the purchase of these colossals, it would still be acceptable to me, but if the purchase of DIKI's colossal on Žitnjak went to an operator who can't own that same infrastructure by law, it's a failure, it's strange, no matter how the government tried to explain how behind that purchase there is a noble idea to pay the salaries to the owners of DIOKI, it could have been resolved differently if the government wanted it, and even through another daughter, and that is HZ infrastructure, not through HZ Kargo. It is so much about the government's attempt to intervene us into the Croatian Railways system, so here's the failure that happened this way because we put HZ Kargo on a needless loan of 15 million kuna so that we can buy even from the point of view technical value the asked track on Žitnjak, but here's the thing. So, we don't have anything at the HDZ Club, but we support the government going into a system of building a better, better quality system of corridor lines, especially the one that you, Mr. Deputy, mentioned earlier, which is 5 b that as much as possible strengthens corridor 5c towards the Plots, to arrange a complete system of local railway lines that will very much be questionable after the adoption of that law on railways that we have brought in, and there is no dilemma there, but this would give us a strategic document, which lines, in which order, how we will finance it, which we will rely on the funds of the European funds, which we will have to finance ourselves, but then this law might make sense that this trail is headed. This is what I say for all the reasons I have stated that will later be in an individual debate, the HDZ Club cannot support such a law. Someone has already said that it is harmful, it is harmful to me, it is harmful because it violates the excellent system of financing highway construction and does not contribute and does not establish a new system of financing for railway infrastructure and therefore the HDZ Club cannot be for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61124	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61125	Dear counterpart Bacic, you told and asked the assistant minister if there was a national programme for building railway infrastructure? There is, and I'll tell you how old it is, it's about two hundred years old, look at the history, or the monograph of the river track, and you'll see that what Mr. Antesic was saying, this corridor, these two tunnels from Delnice to Zlobin, and everything exists in those projects of Austro-Hungarian when it was meant to build that railroad. What bothers me personally is that, back in the last 5, 6 years, a spatial integrated study of the Primorje-Gorski County, which has cost this country, this budget, the budget of the Primorje-Gorski County, cost 8 million kuna and where these same corridors of the railways, the plains, or the corridor of the river track, are located in one completely different location through the Vinodol Valley. You were also saying what these 20 lips mean by excise duties for a liter of fuel, for HH and building that two-wheel line absolutely nothing. But it means a lot for what you said about future road construction and roads in the Republic of Croatia. All that was said by a previous colleague and down to Dubrovnik, including the Yellow Lock, Križiste, Slavonia, Sisak, all that still needs to be built from the transport infrastructure. So, we have a national programme according to this, which I welcome because I proposed that route at the time when a traffic integrated study of the Primorje-Gorski County was discussed because it was insane to drag a two-way line through the Vinodol Valley. Although there is another variant, another strategy that cost the same amount there in the 1970s, a flat-rate line to the Coup Valley and the Krasica Randing Station. What bothers me is that all the time you've been saying there's some kind of money in the railroad, and you've been beaten but not in the workers, in the workers of the railroad if you, some firm... in the last 12, 13 years then it's HH and it's questionable the safety of traffic in this condition as it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61126	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61127	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Klaric, you have shown exactly what the situation on the 5b rail corridor is for which, among us all here, there is a clear absolute consensus that this corridor and this railway line is one of the most important railway lines in the Republic of Croatia. But I am also aware of the fact that it has tried to establish itself before, to draw up project documentation for that same railroad. However, if it had just come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, in a certain way it should have been the basis, the operator of the activities clearly with the Republic of Croatia with HZ infrastructure as a company that manages this infrastructure because the grotesque works to make sense in the Rijeka port why there is also a special project of the World Bank. It was open, I wouldn't say planting, but in any case for a long, long time it should have been waiting for the Primorje-Gorski County's spatial plan to come into effect which the spatial plan could and could allow for the development of idea solutions, location permits, building permits, etc. I cannot imagine that this railroad, which is a European corridor, cannot be largely financed by the European funds, that for this railway we must have so much funds just as Mr. Deputy Minister said to separate from the state budget. I think it is possible for this railway if the project is set up properly, if it is agreed with the European Commission, that it is one of the projects that will first receive money from the European funds in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61128	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bačić, when making and rebalancing budgets and budgets, we're listening to the story we're not going to provide funds for the railways to make you pay the wages, we're not going to do it, we're going to finance the investments. This is what the PR- and marketing sounds nice like, shows how the government is caring and then comes to you not a week after that document from the same government that says: "In the conditions of insufficient state budget funds in the past HZ infrastructure is needed to achieve the necessary objectives and implement contractual obligations with the consent of the owner to secure from loans and state guarantees.". That means automatically that even the government budget deficit isn't what it is. Because according to EUROSTAT's methods, many like to boast if you issue a guarantee that is apparent not to be able to repay the loan it is counted in the budget. And the budget funds were not given but were granted guarantees for loans solely to show a smaller deficit and over the past year and a half 2 billion and 600 million guarantees were given to HZ. However, the most ridiculous thing I have seen in this law is in point 3: "For the implementation of the proposed law, it is not necessary to allocate special funds to the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia.". So we pass a law providing 400 million Croatian railways and the bill promoter says no additional funds are needed. So why are we passing this law? Maybe it's not necessary, because what you're saying doesn't require extra resources, that's ridiculous. You took those funds from someone to give them to someone. But it's best to talk about one hasty decision, about one law that's been brought back to application, you've got a lot more to do, but I'm going to talk about it in an individual debate. However, definitely investment in road construction is being helped by Croatian railways who need help but not in this way, Croatian railways, if Croatia has already built highways then it is time for Europe to build railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61130	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61131	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you're right, so I'm a witness and we're all parliamentary deputies how many times the Minister of Finance has spoken to the speaker unlike your government, we won't be buying social peace through the resources of the state budget. We will reduce the subsidies from the budget that will be directed towards the Croatian Railways. And you say that was PR. It was the PR-ovski to show the government's reform capacity which will be able to restructure the railway very quickly, so the lack of funds that will be subsidized from the state budget will now be resolved in a way that will reduce costs through the reforms that will take place in HZ. And now here we have seen, we have witnessed what you yourself have read that practically government 400, 450 to 500 million kuna funds will now otherwise transfer to HZ-Infrastructure and it is quite clear these 460 million kunas is a new increase in the deficit of the state budget, and we will probably see that when the state budget is implemented for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61132	And Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61133	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, you said this was an unfair law. Well, he can't be just unfair if this law takes a billion kuna from the Croatian highways. The consequences that will arise under the adoption of this law are described in line with the needs of funding with the needs of organisation and regulation of transport. Something this vague, and nowhere is it mentioned that the consequences of this law will be 1 billion kuna less on Croatian highways. There's no reason for that, as if it doesn't exist. Well, it's not a billion kuna for God's sake. However, this law is not only unfair, it is both subtle and perfidious because it is preparing for something to follow, it is preparing for the giving of Croatian highways in concession, it is preparing to make the subject not as beautiful as it is usually done but to make him more reviled to make the price as lower as possible, earning some as large as possible, and damage to the state as long-term as possible. When it comes to giving Croatian highways in a concession, I now think of a beautiful song "There is a long road that leads all the way to heaven", but our Croatian highway and intention to give in a concession reminds me that there is a long road that leads Croatian people into modern slavery. In the long run, I'm not going to say that, it's going to show up in the long run, and any national economic policy can be either patriotic or comparative. I'm sure this isn't patriotic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61134	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61135	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is true that not so much in this law that Croatian highways will miss a billion kunas, it should have been written in the past law, not so much that they will miss a billion kunas, but the fact that we do not know how Croatian highways will work at all if we raise a billion kunas, and on the other hand we have not established a concessionaire in this famous process of monetization. What if the whole next year, and I don't think the Croatian Government will succeed because now it seems to me very quickly at the door to be chased by this consultant from the Croatian highways because apparently Minister Doncic says he is not satisfied with the way he handles the procedure. Therefore, the whole next year as things stand now, there will be no concessionaire who will then assume the obligation to maintain the entire infrastructure on the Croatian highways. How and how will the Croatian highway company operate without a billion kuna, on the other hand there will be no new money, a new concessionaire who will be able to maintain this project and the whole system, the question is how and how we will maintain the highways, and we hear that already this company is barely ending it, that the problems are in operation. How, without so much money, I probably don't know if it's clear to Mr. Secretary and this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61136	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61137	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to this law, I must point out that the initiative by Croatian railways, which unions, which any administrations that have changed over the years, has been partly related to what is now happening to this law. A few minutes ago, in a replica, I noted that for many years the railways have been pointing to a problem that they are forced to stand out for Croatian highways all the time. And not only that, but the excise duties are calculated first, so on these VAT excise duties, that is why more VAT has been allocated to the Croatian railways in real terms than it should have been, so when we return the story a little bit back then we come to the fact that those subsidies that have been shown and which have been set aside for the Croatian railways in reality have never been as they were shown, and we have, as a result, justifiable dissatisfaction for the rail users who do not know about this detail, keep talking about this kind of money being thrown into the Croatian railways, and you do what you do, drive with what you're driving and then all normally come to the representatives of the ministry who sort of slightly and rudely say that you are not able to earn your salaries. Well, of course, they weren't able to earn their salaries because they're incompetent, and they're incompetent because they were chosen by the existing government, they didn't have any other power to choose, but they chose what they had, in that part of what they had at their disposal, so they chose what they thought was the least bad or the best, whatever they wanted, so the capable and chosen frames brought HZ-Cargo and HZ-Putical transport, more or less HZ-Putical but especially HZ-Cargo brought them to this level where they are now. The same initiative for this kind of law, or to specify, for the blue diesel because the railways have been asking for years to be released from this charge, i.e. to function on the principle of blue diesel, and the same kind of initiative has been launched both by Jadrolini and by the wonders, Jadrolini reportedly passed. Can we thank him for being a minister from the old maritime family because Croatian Zagorje is known for providing experienced maritime personnel or something else we can thank, I have no idea. Perhaps even if Cargo had been doomed in advance, which is evident from what we mentioned today on several occasions more of us, and I would have only called upon it once more on the phone of Mr. Mladen Bajic, so let's not let those famous 30 years go by, as mentioned today to the next reconnaissance actions as popularly said in that mile, to determine whether HZ Cargo had to, whether what you said or under some strange circumstances had been decided to buy a DEOKI track which unfortunately did not save DIOKI, or DIOKI workers. I see this law that in the debate all the time, it has often been pushed around to see if this law will save Croatian railways. So there's one thing that needs to be clarified, there's no Croatian railways, there's no such thing as that. There is HZ infrastructure, HZ passenger transport and HZ Cargo. Will this law mean anything to HZ infrastructure? Well, I believe so, because no matter what, 400 and something million will mean to them. I think it will mean a lot more to the loss of the Croatian highways. Is this a good solution? I don't think so, but I think it's where and where a better-quality solution is what the railways suggested. But I leave it to you because I know I can't influence. All the debates so far, starting with the first debate of the Law on Railways in this House when they literally attacked me on this side to talk nebuloza, to talk nonsense, when I mentioned that parts of HH would be sold and that this was the purpose of the first Law on Railways we discussed in this conference. But now that's okay, nobody's talking about it anymore, so it's been almost two years what you're talking about. We have a situation the way we have it. HZ Cargo has been brought into such a situation as is currently unspeakable, among other things, because of the fact that just before the minister, i.e. Deputy Minister pardon, mentioned as something positive. He mentioned as positive that the railways are in the whole of Zagreb's ring, i.e. all the approaches to the city of Zagreb except for Slovenia. For this reason, let's say HZ Cargo must invest an additional 16000 euros per shipment to get the train from Caprag to Soic and the intervention transport of energy. Very handsome! That same HZ Cargo that's so incompetent. And let him be incompetent, but he's not an incompetent worker. There have been a lot of words here today about congratulating Christmas teachers, educators. I congratulate them without irony and without sarcasm. In the future, I congratulate them on this holiday, but even more beautiful congratulations go to the railways. 1,000 HZ Cargo workers by the end of the year are excess, 1000 families. But it's only one day on HZZ. The Croatian Employment Service has a daily quota of 1,000 people to raise, so it may be at the level of their statistics and will not be God knows what. But it's a systematic collapse of such a company, it's something I probably don't know about any example. I follow the railroad, I follow the railroad not only with us, but also with what's going on and around. I don't know any such example. I know the British were on time, and the English went with the privatisation of parts of their railroads, so after a few years they were going back at a much higher price in a far worse state. Have we come now, these investments to be clear, these investments are only being solved by the highway. All the local, local and regional railways are nowhere to be found here, gone and not planned. Today, the deputy minister said the same very handsome thesis about the 5B corridor project with two separate tracks making up one rail. Well, I have to admit, I was a little surprised. It is a two-way track, and we have the railway Novska – Zagreb via Dugi Sel and via Sisak. That's where they wouldn't let us be a two-way track with separate tracks. No, but here we must go with the construction of the second track across the Long Sel, and the railway which was spared traffic and far less haban and relative to railway concepts relatively in a short period and refurbished Sunja – Novska we will simply ignore that railway. I don't think something like that is, I don't really see any logical as much as I'm inclined to even this HZ infrastructure administration or individuals inside can't find any too much explanation why it is. As far as I'm concerned, I need to get back to that HZ Cargo a little bit more. Someone mentioned there's going to be a sales contract next week. I'm afraid they won't, because in the meantime, the costs of the courts were also up, and that Romania, as far as we know through the media, delivered back a contract that was important to a different, not little but very, very much, in relation to what was sought by the public tender. Now the cost of these courts I think is further complicated, so it's really questionable what's going to happen. I asked the minister today, but he had to leave because of his obligations, and now there's the deputy minister, so I'd like to hear from him if he has any new information on the loan for HZ passenger transport, buying 44 motor furniture? Given the information we have received from the same media that simple and state guarantees cannot be found by any bank interested in granting these loans. Now he's supposed to be engaged and HBOR. However, from some of our available information, it is a little overcrowded cake for them and whether any of it will be or won't be hard to believe, but that's why the Ministry's representative is here, so I hope that after a year and a half of silence to the parliamentary representatives and members of the Transport Committee, I hope that the time has come to at least get some of this information on the drop. From this same pay phone I asked the question, wouldn't it be more convenient for HZ, after all, for the state itself, wouldn't it be preferable to return the organisational form? The EU Directive said we must have separate accounts within the Croatian Railways system. So operators must have private accounts, infrastructure managers must have a separate account. Wouldn't it be better if we put everything back in one holding unit? I'm sure they'd cut the costs. It is then answered that once you decide on one form that there is no going back. We have checked through our European Parliament with the President of the Committee on Transport in the European Parliament that information is not correct. But it's not the first time we've experienced even the wrong translations of the directive to get us in a completely different direction. I have one more thing to do. I almost missed it. This law, which we are discussing, provides for Article 21a of the compensation for the financing of railway infrastructure, is to be paid from the state budget, etc., etc. So I'm going to remind you that we haven't discussed the Law on Railways for so long when I insisted five times that the Deputy Minister be made known whether this law means that we have the possibility of more infrastructure managers, that he is not unique. This law first introduced the possibility of more infrastructure managers. And now we're passing a law that says the infrastructure manager is entitled to $0.20 per litre of fuel. And then behind that we add in the second paragraph that refers to HZ infrastructure. Now I, I'm not a lawyer, but I ask the lawyers have them safe, is it now legal in order to maintain the infrastructure precisely decided standing to maintain the infrastructure is segregating from the state budget that amount. And what if someone else gets a concession to be the infrastructure manager on another part? It's a five-year contract. As far as I know in 2008, a contract with HZ infrastructure was signed. Whether it was signed in 2013 I don't know, maybe it was, maybe it wasn't, but this law certainly wasn't written for a 5-year period. Nowhere in it says that in five years, he'll no longer be worth what the children of turkey dots would say is not worth it now, it'll depend on who gets it, who we'll make the infrastructure management contract with. So I think and that on the legal side very, very questionable how fine this law is. I've had it yet, but I hope there will be opportunities in the replicas. In any case, as much as I am a railwayman in my soul because I am, from such a family, all my people worked on the railroad and spent 30 years working on the railroad alone, I don't care about any of the solutions offered. The Croatian Labour Club will be restrained on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61138	Thank you very much. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61139	So, colleague Novak, you're talking about the railroad, and then you mention HZ Cargo, HH passenger transport, HH this, HH that. The fact is that by 2000, a company was broken up, broken up on a lot of companies, so HZ Cargo, HZ passenger transport, and there was an RVR, which in the meantime probably also fell apart and infrastructure, passenger transport, and I don't know what not. And here we're talking about this law on these 20 limes that's going to be obtained and what's going to be some kind of minimal means, but it's also about the huge assets that have been invested in that same railroad over the past few years. You are witnessing when you mention both Zagreb and the Randifier Station and this part of those two systems drags you to Moravica which are done and it is made... Here's a recently opened one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess these projects are being prepared for a straight line, too, and that's something to be said for. But one forgets that through these decades and centuries, Croatian railways have a huge value in their integrated form. They have in the centers of the largest cities in the Republic of Zagreb, rivers of enormous property in real estate in buildings that have been built for decades and have some value. It is mentioned here that the basic part of the underlying capital with the investments so far has been eaten. These 20 lipos you said that was a good idea and the unions were looking for it in time for some kind of rights. Here we are talking and all the time my thinking goes in this sense a new law that will do exactly what Mr. Bacic mentioned. What is the strategy for the development of this railway? We said we'd sell HZ Cargo to those Romanians or not. It's the only part of HZ that can make any revenue, everything else is always subject to these subsidies and always something that the state as such will have to give. But HH is too strong and too important in what it means for the development of the economy, for the development of the Rijeka harbor, for the development of everything else in those entrepreneurship zones because an unforgivable part of our country's blood flow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61140	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61141	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, now you've reminded me of another detail that everything you've said, everything is absolutely standing, I support everything. Among other things, as far as I'm aware and the Romanian partner will call it, it's being reconsidered about this purchase contract for reasons that the properties that the Kargos allegedly have not been introduced as such have not been transferred. So all of this, not to say very dilettantly prepared or even better wording is being prepared only segments and you can't see the whole. Everything else doesn't matter to you. I'll remind you, and since I know a little bit about you as well, I know you've been working on the railroad. I'll remind you of another part of the story. At the time, it was an extremely large attack to move the Split station, to move the railway out of the city centre. That was the same case as I remember in Rijeka, to move the railroads from downtown, but that's, that's the real value of the railroad. That part is completely ignored. We're talking about that railroad now. I don't know, maybe it's not a real comparison, but I can't help but mention it. You know when Bara asked how she felt about Sanader, then he said look, I don't mind because now he's become a national sport who'll spit harder on him. Now, I have the impression that there has now become a national sport here that will shed more light on Croatia's highways, the Croatian Railways, what if I think there is another such people in the world, who just let's yell at their own, incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61142	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61143	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, you say or assume that Jadrolini is provided with blue diesel, payment and purchase of fuel without road maintenance fees because, as Minister Hajdas Doncic said, it comes from these parts where sea captains are known, so it was probably the reason why Jadrolini was released from paying charges per litre of fuel. It is true that Jadrolini has been released from these fees and that this is at the annual level of saving Jadrolinija about 45 million kuna. But I must disappoint you because the sailors of Jadrolinia, the employees and the whole system got nothing, why? Because the government made a very quick effort to reduce the subsidies to the Adriatic because it carries out a non-commercial part of the passenger traffic on the Adriatic, so now, by the basis of this bill, the cost of the fuel payment will be reduced by another 20 million kuna from the state budget. In fact, Jadrolinija is the agency paying subsidies to Jadrolini, which had an item of 325 million kuna for subsidising passenger maritime transport in the Adriatic. Now we release the Jadrolini cost from somewhere around 45 million kuna and the agency takes twice as much, 10 million kuna. So despite this fact that Jadrolinia was introduced by blue diesel and reduced fuel consumption will be less resources because at the same time the agency has been reduced by double the resources so that this positive effect expected by the Adriatic Seamen and the entire Jadrolinia system is practically eliminated because it will be more difficult for them than before their fuel consumption has been reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61144	And Minister Hajdash Doncic comes from a place where good ships build. Really. Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61145	So watch him when he made that decision on Jadrolinia, then they worked out these genes from the old maritime family, but then I guess in the meantime he remembered he was from Zagorje and he didn't have much to do with Jadrolinia. However, I agree absolutely with what you have indicated, HZ Kargo, HZ travellers are still far from it. The fact is, they might even have been pedant, so they came up with that number in a way that so much cost-cutting, and now they're still VATing it, and then maybe that figure turns out to be. But when it's the other way around, when something needs to go out, and then it's a little less pedantic, then it's not to say the obvious method that I don't like, as far as I think it's okay to say it and make such a decision. I'm afraid no matter what they are national operators, I'm talking about Jadrolinia now, and HZ Karg, and HZ passenger transport, that our government, our resolute ministry, has made absolutely nothing known that it intends to protect them, that it intends to help them. This has been a systematic destruction of both our operators for years, both of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61146	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61147	Comrade Novak, you were wondering if this law would mean anything to HZ infrastructure? And if the answer itself will, 400 million kuna will mean something. Of course, but the same would mean that there is no law without a reduction in the subsidy from the budget. So the law is unnecessary, but then we wouldn't get the picture we have right now. Then we'd get a budget with a bigger deficit, with bigger government spending, and then it wouldn't be nice to see a budget like that. As it would not be nice to see under which conditions HZ Kargo was sold and which changed terms, as it is not nice to see why Gredelj went into bankruptcy and did not enter into a pre-demand settlement and some large private companies are in a pre-demand settlement and do not go into bankruptcy. But why separate it from the budget when we can give guarantees. And so to cover up the real public debt. Because, in fact, the public debt will ultimately be the total debt of the central state increased by all the guarantees the government has given because it is generally all guarantees. But it's a cover-up of the real situation. But to the government, it's an important impression, and it's not content. The impression of employment is actually unemployment, the impression of economic growth, and it's still foreseen in the budget for economic growth, and in fact we're falling headlong and it's a free fall. The measures taken by the government act to slow down the fall as a retard, which is working. Actually, it's a retard economic policy. That's what you could call her. It speeds up the economic downturn. And then Prime Minister Milanovic tells his government, this is the best Croatia has right now. Well, there aren't many here that I see only among a few ruling coalitions, a much better government than there is. We have three possible Ministers of Science and Education here that are not to compare with the existing and so on with everything else. And then admire such a government that is actually chosen by the worst criteria that exist within politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61148	Thank you. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61149	I'd like to rephrase your section on the Minister of Science. He's nowhere near these, not the other way around. Yes, as far as the guarantee is concerned, you said the painting would be different. That's a lot of talk from fellow Shucker today. But I'll ask the question again, maybe I get the answer. You know when a kid gets a lot of pay and eats. Can you answer 44 motor trains if they'll be bought, at which cost, who gave the loan? I see nods with my head, it will be. Now just tell me who's gonna do it. Since Gredelj is in bankruptcy, the job allegedly affected Končar, that Končar has two tracks at his disposal, that Gredel is the only one with capacity on Vukovar. And you're a Wolf-Man with all your strengths you want to destroy. Now the question to me is, is the Gredell already intended for takeover by the Conchar? Well, not all of Gredell because you don't need the whole Gredell, just how do you solve this whole mess now? Because there are three business units in Gredeli. But it's only the one that suits us that needs to be singled out from those three and that's the Wolfman. Well, there's plenty of capacity there. I mean, that's where we stuck the whole story, but I get the impression that even the authors don't know what they want or how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61150	And now I ask you again, who was the answer to the replica? Well, indeed, we sometimes exaggerate our colleagues. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61151	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support these amendments and additions to the laws. As I was saying first and foremost in the previous bill, we could have discussed it in an integrated manner since it was an allocation of 20 June of the state budget for rail infrastructure. In fact, there is little to say about this bill because it considered it to be of a technical nature, that it is justified, understood, simply for the reasons defined in the existing Law on Railways, the governance contract, the relationship between HZ infrastructure and state and in the context of the existing possibilities of the state budget, we consider it justified whether these funds will be sufficient, this will show the next period. What I would certainly like to point out and each of us here who discusses whether individually, on behalf of the club and later on, we will hear individually share certain emotions on a particular subject. However, we are talking about very similar problems, we are talking about transport infrastructure, whether roads, whether they are railways, whether they are Croatian roads, highways or HZ CARGO, HZ passenger transport, meaning it is in some way something we consider our own. However, also in the time in which we are, I think that we must be far more mature and sober without some emotions of those that are not needed in this part of the debate and this bill. I agree, as I was saying in the introduction, that the infrastructure is important, the commitment of the state. However, I cannot share the same and certain positive sides as was evident from some colleagues who said I would cry for something and that we would lose something overnight. We won't lose anything. Let's say by word or by thinking of every ordinary citizen, I'm not going to tell Ivannac, but I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, uh... But as a passenger, I consider myself a passenger at least I haven't traveled by train for 20 years and a few years, unfortunately, and later I'll tell you why he's interested? The faster, the cheaper the better, the better to get from point A to point B. Does it make it faster, cheaper, easier to come by road or rail that is what Croatian citizens are interested in. Whether freight transport is faster, cheaper, or rail, it is interested in the transporter, or who needs a goods transport service. In fact, my experience as mayor, and I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, and I'm going to point out that, with HZ infrastructure, they're not good. Not with HZ transport, HZ CARGO more or less. In fact, something happened that from the area, I think it's some, I can't exactly tell the categories that groups, about 20 km away, the relation of Lepoglava-Ivanec-Varazdin, the journey, the timetable. It was incomprehensible to me when I heard that the timetable had changed, it was not harmonised integrally even though we were working on it with a bus carrier and 60-70 workers of the second shift couldn't get back from work. Of course, we initiated certain meetings, but it took us a few months to agree on both passenger transport and infrastructure so that it could be implemented at all. And what, to be honest, I just got off the chair, I find myself tolerable, I have a long fuse, but when I hear that on the timetable, the unions give me consent, in the literal sense of the words on the passenger transport schedule, the unions give me consent. He was just like this in the rest of the department. The second day after that meeting again shocks, why, because the train that drives after 10 o'clock in the city center at 10:15 a.m. when workers from the second shift somewhere over a thousand workers crossing the ramp crossing and passing the train. I thought it was a technical malfunction, but I asked for an interpretation, we notified the police station, the police department, the railroad because for me it was all the same and they said so you know our employee worked till 10 o'clock, these 15 minutes we have to pay him overtime to get him up and down the ramp because he's not electronic. When I talk about the railroad, when I look at it from my own, and I'm not the only one, and it's not just the case with me, then I wonder if these 20 limes and I agree with this explanation that the Deputy Minister said about the construction, but here says in the Law on Railways that behind the financing or operation and the company of HZ-Infrastructure that it would not happen that these 20 limes don't go where they shouldn't, and I'm not sure that they won't, of course we can't define it by law, neither the Deputy Minister nor the Minister, but the responsible persons in HZ companies. For our citizens, it's all railways, they don't know much what transport is, which is infrastructure, which is cargo, of course we're in a different position, given the circumstances we need to get to know each other, but I have a great deal of concern about it. Namely, we all witnessed years ago, that's after the '90s, the 2000s, totally irrelevant, huge severances. I don't know what public companies had as much severance as railroads, or maybe I'm wrong. In order not to go into restructuring again in a way like this or something like that, I know it may not be possible to install it into the text of the law, but to control the spending of those funds. I would like to and know that it is necessary to, and I believe that it is also in preparation if it has not seen the light of the public... with personal contacts with the minister I received the information that defined priorities as in road construction, as well as in building railway infrastructure as necessary. Of course, all this is in line with the possibilities and budgets, with the opportunities provided by the European Union funds, and I do not find it problematic and to stop building highways or fast roads, but I simply believe that we have had to define certain ranking priorities and that certain projects have been extended for conditionally said some better times. And to conclude, it's justified that these 20 limes for the construction of HZ-Infrastructure, it's justified that these 1.20 kunas are allotted, I think it's supposed to be law 1.20, a joke, impossible, but I'm also saying the desire is to carry out both control and control over the spending of that money. In addition to all of the above, the HNS will support the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61152	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61153	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this legislative proposal. This proposal for a law on the financing of railway infrastructure as a public goods in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia would include the excise duty under the Law on excise duties of the state budget, and would charge from the state budget a litre of chargeable excise duties on energy, motor gasoline and gas oils used as fuel in the amount of €0.2 at the expense of HZ-Infrastructure d.o.o. The fee for financing the rail infrastructure from excise duties is a source of funding which compensates HZ-Infrastructure manager for the lack of revenue due to insufficient resources from the state budget for the organisation and regulation of transport, the maintenance of railway infrastructure and the management of companies in accordance with the contract on the management of railway infrastructure. The favourable geotransport position of Croatia will only be realised if the level of roads is raised to the highest extent. The sources of funding for such large investments will be in the Croatian budget and in the European Union funds. The reasons why we support the adoption of this law at the SDP club are as follows. First of all, this is a poor state of rail infrastructure, the trend of subinvestment has been present on the railway for the past 20 and more years, the result of such a condition is a lag in the rail remont, very low permitted and commercial train speeds, poor state of track and turn. There are things more or less familiar to everyone. The second reason is to ensure a permanent source of funding. On 15 June 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded a contract with HZ infrastructure on the management of railway infrastructure in which Article 10(1) provides for "infrastructure owner is obliged to provide sufficient financial resources for the maintenance, renovation, modernisation, construction and construction of railway infrastructure, means for the organisation and regulation of railway transport, and for the management of undertakings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Railways The Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to making appropriate decisions within 6 months of the date of entry into force of that law to reduce the responsibilities and financial consolidation of the infrastructure manager, HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. The reduction in debt and financial consolidation relates to loans contracted by the infrastructure manager to finance maintenance, modernisation, construction of railway infrastructure, as well as to funds for the organisation and regulation of railway transport as well as to cover other losses resulting from the management of railway infrastructure. The existing Law on Railways regulates the financing of rail infrastructure from fees paid by railway infrastructure users, funds from domestic and foreign legal persons, the budget of units of local and regional self-government and state budgets, and other sources. The lack of funding for the railway infrastructure can also be provided by the Republic of Croatia from other sources. The form of a sustainable and permanent source of financing would constitute a compensation for financing the rail infrastructure that would be included in the excise duty. Furthermore, we must mention a very negative ratio of the share of rail transport compared to road transport. The situation in which railway companies found themselves at the end of the 20th century in EU countries is not even slightly pink. Railways have unsustainably lost the race with increasing quality road transport, failing to offer a market for new services that would compensate for technological disadvantages. The market share lost in the post-World War II has led to a rapid lagging behind that branch behind other transport branches, leading to its growing inertability and need for financial interventions by the state. The large shortage of railways in their market placement is the inability to provide door-to-door transport services due to the conditionality of the existing infrastructure network and technical constraints. This entails a further collection of transport services by means of the organisation of the shipment of goods to board the wagon and dispatch usually by means of a road vehicle after its landing, which significantly slows down, complicates and collects the whole transport business. Furthermore, rail transport is a particularly freight dispute as all transport modes are fast passenger, regional, local, freight etc. take place on the same infrastructure and part of the route in a given unit of time, which is subject to very rigid and fixed rules of order of missing individual trains where the minimum priority is to freight transport. Finally, the maintenance of existing infrastructure and the construction of a new one require significant funds that cannot be earned under such conditions and in a market environment where road transport is increasingly under pressure from railways. On the contrary, we can agree that rail transport from the point of view of ecology, economics, energy and transport security should certainly be encouraged. Finally, the SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61154	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61155	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here you have read it, confirmed that you will vote in favour of this bill. But since I know you're coming from our Slavonia, from Virovitica-Podravska County, do you know that there is, therefore, a National Programme of Railway Infrastructure in which they are not by rail in your county, or even this railway Dalj – Osijek – Varazdin or here towards Zagreb. So it's that the explanation is such that these railways are not on international corridors, that they are inert and don't actually write literally but are ready to be shut down for about five years. Since you say you will support this legislative proposal, so I am interested in this part, so the state of the railway and the national railway strategy plan in your county is that little is said in the conflict of interest of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61156	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61157	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, so when you talk about Koprivnica – I do not think that information when you talk about shutting down, I do not have that kind of information. I'm sure there's what I heard, which is in the plan of modernising the track track, but the means that this 20-litre legal proposal certainly isn't enough for all directions to be covered in a shorter period of time. What has been wrong in the past, and otherwise we always come back, we always turn around here when a strategy document is mentioned here and here in which this track has been given a regional character although, according to many thoughts, it should have gained the status of the main area, so with an international character. However, you will find it difficult to convince me that the railway of a regional character is preparing to shut down, in fact to suspend traffic because this part of the railway from Cjelic is now taking place, in a high stage of work to modernise that part that was closed several years ago. I don't have the exact information right now, but I did get that information, and in the last debate, we talked about that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61158	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Today we talked here about what it means to take 20 limes from excise duty to fuel and instead of to the Croatian road or highway simply that 450 million kunas per year reroute, reroute to Croatian railways. Similarly, the debate today was that the transportation that our teachers receive was redistributed for January instead of December. And Christmas has not been since the last year of the rule of Jadranka Kosor, so up to these two years of SDP. So the teachers didn't receive the Christmas card. So it's no surprise to them. It would be good if at least Christmas Day was transferred to the next year for the Holy Three Kings or some other holiday that came in January, but that's not going to happen. As it was stolen, stolen literally, so the teacher's transport for one month, so they've been receiving that transport for the current month, now they're transferring it to that one, so they stole one or they're going to steal one. So this 450 million, please? ... And he'll get two in January. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So give the people of the teaching to rejoice, and tell them that they will receive two in January. That's what Mrs. Lugarić would have put you as Minister of Science, Education, Sports, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61160	Comrade Grubisic, railways are a theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61161	Here you go, railroad. So, these 450 million kunas are being redesigned for Croatian railways. We know in the past, even during Mr. Šuker that the Croatian state has subsidized, touched on how it was once liked to say it with the same amount of railway and HRT. There were about a billion kunas in there somewhere, right? All right, 900 and one more thing, yeah. Therefore, these are institutions of public importance, institutions which, namely our Croatian railways, have remained derailed significantly with the removal of many directions and stripes. For example, there were two years stopped traffic on the track and are now being refurbished allegedly Sirac-Bjelovar. The Našice-Pletternica railroad has never worked or will. It can be used for old iron, lift the railroad and cut the vineyard thresholds and plant up... vineyards, right. So, a number of other railways that are not in the master's direction, which are not interesting to Europe and European traffic routes are actually inconclusive, they even said that the Osijek-Zagreb railway would be lifted just through the Virovitic-Podrava County, which I just said. There was talk, so there was anger in Slavonia, so it was quieting down a little bit now. But when will it be? Well, we'll see. X. pan-European corridor, so from Dobova to Tovarnik that passes through Croatia is important for transportation. The VB corridor passing from Botov to Zagreb and Rijeka is a significant corridor. The VC corridor from the White Manastir and from the Hungarian border and here according to the Sava River is a significant corridor for the Republic of Croatia. And yet the only one who exists on which the transport is very slow so it is really convenient for the panorama Intelligent Winetou Karl Maya of those movies to observe through Liku is that of those ends with shamans and others is this direction for Split. The direction that used to go to Split and drive for 4, 5 hours on top of the head was the unicensed railroad. Una railroad that was destroyed in the war and today trains very rarely drive, only to Love. It is a place on the river Uni the last destination of our trains, and later trains so-called. Republika Srpska is driving on a route towards Bosnia and Herzegovina Nova and continues towards Banja Luka and two trains a day to Bihac. What else to say about our railway that I say burned a book in two letters, could be said, not by bringing all the acts and the medium-term 5-year development and annual reports and the large number of managers that are piled up by the political elites that govern this country. So their salaries when you look at them, someone was talking about surveillance here, so there could be a lot of talk about what the number of those in the management structures of the Croatian Railways, how much severances were paid, there are also jobs for those bodies that are doing some other kind of transportation. Well, let's say the remorkers and so on. Yeah. What about even cheaper transport or transport as is common in Europe for rail transport to port cities? So you see the Netherlands, Germany, the Rain, the Maine, the Danube, there are no channels. What about our rivers? The Sava River is free not only from Sisko towards Zagreb but also further downriver. The trough hasn't been cleaned. Porta Brod cannot live in these projections of any government. The port of Brod has a railway track which can transport goods by river transport and on the railway. That track is completely abandoned. The Bosnian Ship-Slavon Ship Colony has been destroyed. So, lift it up and it's gone. On this basis, the town of Slavonski Brod was once like an international station because it has a date with another state, it had the status of an international station and a railway hub. The railroad was made over the Slavonski Brod railway hub. And with 800 workers at the Slavonski Brod Railway Station, it has now fallen on an ordinary station like here at Stupnik, or I don't know how it works here Borongaj, about the same way the train station or Slavonski Brod Station at the level of one Borongaj station is coming. A lot of failures have been made and many of our Croatian citizens have paid billions of subsidies to make it work out that way. And now here we are, we're going to get off the budget of the Croatian highways, it's true that there was crime, it's true that there was a here I can't judge because the verdicts haven't been made yet, it's true that there was everything. But when a stranger comes to Croatia, then what he notices first are really neat and beautiful roads. I'm on my way to a neighbor's house, so there's a road like this. So frequent from Ilock when you cross to Backa Palanka and Novi U.S.A., means Backo Palanka and Novi U.S.A., so it's a five-and-a-half-metre road where you can't exchange with the freighter, and when you enter Croatia into Ilock and then you see what kind of state it really is, it's our mirror. It is a mirror of the Croatian state towards foreigners entering the Republic of Croatia. And now we get to that shoelace as Matusic says, and from the shoe we think and think about what we're going to do next, the halfway, the highway, the bridge, the tunnel, etc. It was said when this government came with great delight and acclaim we will build the River-Zagreb Straightway, a long-standing dream from the Austro-Hungarian settlement, the Croatian-Hungarian settlement in 1868 when Rijeka became the main exporting hand of Hungary. Then Carlovar's name was Karlovar. Var is the city, right? Hungarian railways were then called, today they are not Hungarians, today they are Croatian railways, but unfortunately the situation is about that time when it was Hungarians, it's even worse than it is today. This government, in turn, and in the follow-up of that government, adopts this law, which does not say Mr. Antesic as long as this law applies. Is that permanent? Yes, we've received confirmation that this law is for centuries or at least this government is in power, because the law changes again if the government changes. So, it doesn't say but here it is I thought it might be some sort of temporary measure to help the railway stand on its feet but it is, it is a permanent measure of permanent assistance to the Croatian railways mildly to us. Now what else do you say about this law? Nothing, simply in two words specified that 20 limes per litre of fuel will belong and it says so to the manager, watch the manager and do so on the page, says it is necessary from 1 January 2014 to provide a stable source of financing for the regular operation of the railway infrastructure manager. So his office must have a stable and regular source of income in order to have that office or the manager's office function stablely, to have both the secretary and the car and everything. Is that exactly how it had to be written, it wasn't me, maybe I'm dumb, but that's what page number three says, so it's necessary that from 1 January 2014 to ensure a stable source of financing for the regular operation of the railway infrastructure manager, that's what it says on page three, then write it right, not like this. So, given that in Slavonia we have one of our tenth corridors to our factory, therefore the hometown of A.G. Matoša and since all other corridors except those that I listed appear to be Croatian railways and are not important, they are not even profitable, so it says. I don't know what that 450 million kuna's gonna be spent in? I'm very interested in it. What's going to be in that infrastructure is launched unless the manager's office sees us, which we spent that money in, if we've already cut off and cut down Croatian highways and said we don't need to build highways anymore, we've built everything, although we haven't got corridor 5c that hasn't been connected through the Drava with Hungary, nor has it been built a bridge on Savi, nor has there been a trail, nor a rock foundation yet buried and eaten the lambs. So there's no such thing. I'm curious about what this 450 million kuna is going to do every year if there's a bigger fuel check, or if it collects, I don't know how much it is, no excise duties are fixed. So, what's it going to be spent in? Do you have a plan, a strategy program? To tell you this year we're gonna make a piece of the railroad up to from Carlovec I don't even know up to, etc. If the only and main interest is to make the railway as a housewife of the railway from Botov to Rijeka via Zagreb, then we must ask ourselves why, not only must we say clearly and loudly that all Croatian citizens from Vitalina and Molunta, Pločica, Popovića and all of this Saringrad and Ilocka pay all of it in a liter of fuel 20 limes for the railroad stretching from Botov to Rijeka. So, all of us solidarity as health insurance, we're all solidarity with those who go on dialysis, say, yeah, and I never go to the doctor, but they're spending a health kuna, so this one, so all Croatian citizens are in solidarity with the construction of the railway infrastructure and its manager to build that railroad or someone else, but tell us or you don't know where these 450 million kunas are going to go. I want to know where they're going to go, every day I'm running almost fuel, or every other one, where they're going to go my 20 lipes, for which project of railway infrastructure in Croatia. And that's what all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want to know. This was also about the Vinkovci-Osjek railroad, so who is it, someone said from the SDP So wait for Vinkovci, Osijek-Vinkovci [[Intruder: Time.]] Well, here's Gunja-Brcko-Banovici-Sarajevo. [[Intruder: Time of fellow Grubisic.]] Well, it's a railroad that's an international man of God. Osijek, Vinkovci, Županja, Brcko, Banovići, Tuzla We are going to the mountains. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grubisic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61162	We have two replicas, the first one was Frano Matušić. Comrade Matušić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague Grubisic, in fact asking about where the funds are going to go for the railway and in fact already in the answer you have made very clear that you do not know where these funds will go and where the project will go, because of the fact that it is not known because it is only about making a budget, only about making a budget but unfortunately that will result in damage to Croatian highways. And it will result in the fact that there is no continuation of highway construction. And HH will be just covering the loss, that's all. It's just about covering your losses. There were also words that these funds would serve as part of the funds to participate, participate in European Union funds, in ensuring that part and on the Croatian side. However, this is quite clear about the makeup of the state budget in order to register in fact a smaller deficit. And the deficit will eventually be higher. And in 2013 it will be bigger by about a billion kuna because we are expected to fall this year from at least 1% as we could hear from experts because the third quarter was in decline 0.6% at least according to the State Statistics Office. And of course there's not a word about what they assured us a few days ago, the finance minister and the prime minister that there will be an economic growth of 0.2% this year. And that no longer even has a theoretical chance of being told tomorrow we have the money to invest a few billion dollars. Of course, it is impossible to invest in something that is not prepared for projects, etc. So, it's just about making up the budget and fake showing, not just for us here in the Parliament, but primarily for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61164	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61165	Comrade Matusici, if you remember, you are quite old, I am a little older, that in that country the former, rotten Yugoslavia, whether, there was a Sava Express who drove from Ljubljana to Belgrade in four hours. It stood only in Zagreb, Slavonski Brod, Srijemska Mitrovica and Belgrade. So he leaves at 5:00 in the morning from Ljubljana at 9:00 in Belgrade. Do you remember you and you are from Dubrovnik and you traveled on the train Marjan Express, Unsko prijega Zagreb-Split 4.5 hours. He was also Bosnia Express who drove on the route Zagreb-Sarajevo and Olympic Express was also. And now let's compare that time, those rotten Yugoslavia, and I don't even know the railroads that are like today when you travel from Brod, there's no train faster than four hours Zagreb-Brod, there's no way you're coming by train. No way. And the other thing, so we have the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, but you have a two-way, two-way line of Belgrade-Novinska and from Novska to Zagreb only drives one track. Do you know why? Because these Yugoslavs planned to take Croatia to Novska and have two tracks and only one track from Novska to Zagreb. And that's not what we're worried about. This is the 10th railway pan European corridor. One station Zagreb-Novinska, so trains must wait at train stations. No, no one thinks to build the second track of Novska-Zagreb. No one. Neither this government nor your government. Not a single one, and that's a necessary need.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61166	Thank you. And Shimo Djurdjevic, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61167	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, in my opinion, is not controversial, I also said at the previous agenda point that we should end up in the road infrastructure of those jobs we started, set priorities and end them with an emphasis on connecting Dubrovnik. It is not disputed for me, and we should have done this before that the railway infrastructure changes and repairs, both building and new railways. But of course they are built by Croatian workers, built on Croatian materials, driven by cars produced in our Đura Djakovic, locomotives in Gredelje. And certainly not after that when we invest someone in concessioning what we do with Croatian highways and with many other things, airport and so on. It is for me to employ a Croatian man, to install Croatian materials in that railway, and of course from year to year when we do, when we create a prerequisite for that part, that segment will do business for me with profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61168	Thank you. Answer. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61169	Yes, it would be so, Mr. Honorable Representative Djurdjevic, if your member hadn't stolen the drafts from Đura Djakovic from the locomotive and taken from the low floor tram to Zagreb, so they produced them whether, here. Now low noon trams are produced by another Končar and Gradelj, who produced it and Djuro Djakovic went where he went. But I thought you were going to say that the HDZ government, instead of the Slavonski Brod railway hub, gave the car wash which, by the way, by the way, is either spending 130 kunas of water a year, so that's how much it has to do with the boat's water supply. So much for washing cars on Slavonski Brod. But I have to say the words of one great man as big or not, but he's German and his name is Bismarck, Chancellor Bismarck who said every country is as strong as her railroad. And look at every German village has a train station, a train station, and it's connected with a railroad you want for Mannheim, Franckfurt, Muenchen, you're just changing trains every five minutes by that passenger train and to the one called ICE, I don't know what other. But here, we are as we are and a criminal battle, the political elite is a penal battle for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61170	Thank you. In an individual debate, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. All this time he wants to impose himself here that we're talking about some law that only endures technical changes or something, but I'd say that over the past 10 years HH has been "ingested" from the state budget to say 26-27 billion, and shipbuilding 24. When you add it all together, it's 50 billion to you, so when you look at how much public debt has grown in the last 10 years, then I don't think this subject is harmless at all and that we approach it lightly. First of all, the key thing that is imposed on me is that we really want from HZ and before this law is passed, we have to get an answer to that question, and usually when a bill gets a bill, then try to read from it the intentions of the applicant, except to take 400 million kunas of funds from the Croatian highways, and then it is very interesting to explain, in the conditions of insufficient funding from the state budget over the past period HZ-Infrastructure financial resources needed to achieve the planned objectives and implement contractual obligations with the consent of the owner, has provided loans to the state guarantee. At the same time, we are assured here by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Resorship, that there are no more 2 billion at the position of the Ministry of Transport, which is going towards HZ than you have a billion 400 and then in 15 months you give 2 billion and 600 guarantees and you can't see it this year in the deficit, but you will see it in two years, and some new minister of finance will say that the minister left him the skeletons as counterpart Linic said he had remained the skeletons of shipbuilding. That's why I was saying how much shipbuilding and HZ have swallowed in the last 10 years from the state budget. It's also very interesting to look at and I really don't understand that this law went through the Ministry of Finance and there were no objections. Veli would be included in the excise charge under the Excise Tax Act. Mr. Deputy Minister, this will never be included in the excise charge. If this is included in the excise duty, then Croatian citizens will pay an additional 20 lips because Croatian highways and Croatian roads, in 2009, the law was changed because these 1.20 kunas become an integral part of 2.90 kuna, then there were 3.10 kunas for gasoline because the European Union directives defined the minimum excise duty. Therefore, in the light of the law, this simply cannot stand to become an integral part of the excise duty, but the law defines that of those 3.20 kuna or how much excise duty 20 limes is intended to direct towards HZ, but then it is not regulated by the Excise Act but by this lex specialis law. But I'm saying, what's particularly fascinating is saying a score for the source and sources of the necessary means to implement this law and now look. We have been discussing here all day that 440 million will be rerouted from those funds that belonged to the Croatian highways according to HZ, and the bill promoter tells us that the proposed law does not require the allocation of special funds to the burden of the state budget. So whose burden are these 440 million colleagues and colleagues? Whose burden goes to rather than the burden of the state budget, because so far you haven't had Mr. Deputy in the state budget, now on the expense side of the state budget you have that 440 million. Therefore, 440 million in the state budget are needed to implement this law. The fact that it will not be new expenditures is practically transferred from one to another, but 440 million are needed to implement this law. Where you're going to secure them from and how you're going to ensure that it's not irrelevant after all, but you can't write that this law does not require new funds. It simply takes 440 to implement this law or how much of these 20 limes will fall from sold liters of gasoline and other oil derivatives. So much for the seriousness of writing the law and so much for the seriousness of seeing this problem. But when I talked about these 26 billion HZs over the past 10 years cost taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, it should also be said that the three large companies are heavily dependent on HZ and practically their future depends on the future of HZ and on the possibility of HZ to invest. So first of all, I think of Gredelj, who unfortunately is in bankruptcy, Končar and Djur Djakovic. If the HZ are not in a position and is unable to invest, the future of Djura Djakovic is questionable, it should be said openly here, the future of Gredela is also questionable. Končar will probably transfer some of his drives somewhere else, but a complete development program in which Končar and Končar, so Croatian intelligence has invested in the past years of great money, will simply disappear. The question is how long will this little Concar be able to fight tomorrow on the world market with Siemens and some other companies. Therefore, it does not matter what the future of HZ-Infrastructure and HZ-Carga is, it is very important because the three largest at this time to say the metal companies in Croatia depend on it and that is why I say it is very important when we talk about this law to explain how much it means and what it means. But despite this difficult situation, 15 million were found to buy a colossal that dear God is not clear on who he needs and why he should, but the key thing when we talk about HZ is EU funds. We have virtually complete Croatia connected with the highways of Croatian taxpayers, the funds of Croatian citizens, but what is on our disposition and what is opening up to us is the funds from European funds, which would practically fall to EU funds if the government has a clear strategy and a clear plan to see Croatian railways in the future and practically the largest part of these costs should fall to EU funds. But we think we're gonna settle everything with these 20 limes. With these 20 limes, unfortunately we'll just patch the hole, because I remember that once the working ratio in the Croatian Railways was around 2005 it was 1:2.85 and it was translated to you that for the kuna that Croatian railways earned in the state budget, two kunas and 85 should be provided so that Croatian railways could function practically on some cold drive. Now, I'm curious when we propose this law, what is the working ratio of the Croatian Railways at this time, how much money from the state budget and guarantees is needed to ensure that Croatian railways work. Then this picture of these 440 million that will directly receive Croatian HZ Infrastructure from the state budget would be clearer to what it means, which HZ Infrastructure will also be able to achieve and how much funding should be withdrawn from the EU funds with this 440 million so that they can talk about a more significant recovery of Croatian railways. But what is a fact and something to say to me is frankly not clear that the Croatian railways were primarily there in the vicinity of Zagreb and some other major cities in the past years were not developing so-called. the city railway and I think it could have been the way to solve the city traffic problem first and foremost in Zagreb County. And probably a lot of cities would be happy to get rid of that. Why this has always come up with resistance from the Croatian Railways is not clear to me personally. I can only say about the project of the city railway Zagreb – Velika Gorica, which should have been extended in some times and to Sisak was never heard enough even though it was from there in '95. For years, there's never been enough hearing. Although one similar project is shown to be extremely efficient and this is the city transport of Dug Selo – Zagreb, which is used not only by citizens of Dug Sela but also by people from Sesvet, Sesvetski Kraljec and practically a complete part of Zagreb, because it is the fastest way to get to the city center. And this city railway towards Velika Gorica would certainly have withdrawn a large part of the inhabitants of New Zagreb who would have been 5 times easier to come to the Sava Gaj, get on a train and come practically to King Tomislav Square, not to ride with a tram around. But that only tells people who were headed by the railways during the HDZ government and during the SDP. It's a long way to develop big investments, it's a lot easier to buy lean trains that nobody uses. It was far easier to buy a billion kunas of spare parts for tilt trains than to think that with a few dozen million kunas, public urban transport to the city of Velika Gorica developed. For a series of these reasons, as I said about the Law on Croatian highways, this law definitely stops the construction of highways and this law definitely sells Croatian highways and therefore cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61172	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61173	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a replica to Mr. Shucker. As far as domestic production is concerned, we are witnessing that the government of the SDP in 2002, thirdly, I don't know exactly when it acquired exactly tilted trains that were later of course because the railway was not adapted to those same trains where they ended up. One or two are in spare parts. So, such expensive trains we've de facto put on to be spare parts machines for those who were in train condition. But at the same time, what concerns me particularly is that we are not paying attention to the domestic industry. We know what Djuro Djakovic is doing, we know what Končar is doing not to talk about Gredel. We, besides such an industry, are going to import trains first of all modern trains like I just said earlier that weren't adapted to our railroads. And today, when we say that we will invest in the Croatian railway, then we also see in the newspapers that the import of trains is being reconsidered, whether they are like this. So what are people going to do in Koncar, what are people going to do in Djura Djakovic. So let's already understand that the domestic industry as proven in the construction industry can also make identical trains like the one in Germany or any country. Let us start to appreciate our product once, home, Croatian product that the Croatian man really knows how to make and pay attention to. It's a lot of imports and all those who think like that simply can't sit in this government and he was a minister, I don't know how he just can't be a minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So let's give priority to domestic production. They've proven themselves and they know it. We just need to give them support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61174	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61175	Yes, fellow Lucic, it is illogical that if you build a highway, if you subsidize the ice that you want to do it persistently without technically adapting to the track, you should buy lean trains that on the first snow someone obviously did not know that in Lika there was a lot of snow and that they could be applied a few meters. You run into that bending train and it's breaking. But it was very interesting to buy nearly a billion kunas of spare parts along those slopes, and then that whole story was complete. But here these days we've heard a lot about 2% of the health contribution that's been reduced. Well, it would be more logical if these coins had been added to the budget and let's say that with them, with a billion kuna, they co-financed the reconstruction in the Croatian Railways so that they would be practically employed by Rade Končar and Gredelj, as well as Djuro Djakovic with the construction of the wagon. Take it in two years. We've practically lost over five and a half billion kuna by reducing that contribution. No entrepreneur said it helped him. But if we had purposely rerouted certain production plants, in fact certain manufacturing processes would certainly have been far greater and probably the workers of Đura Djakovic would not have been worried about what their destiny was, and neither would the workers of Gredelja. I repeat, with these 20 lipes, it's just one eye rub and a patch of holes. Whether it was a budget grant before because it was also tax revenue and this is the same as the total revenue of the budget created from the tax or someone created it with guarantees ultimately will come at the expense of the state budget. But without a clear vision and a clear strategy that we want from the Croatian railways, which we want to have and if we haven't realized today that the Rijeka-Zagreb-Botovo railroad is also the key for maritime transport and for Luka Rijeka, then unfortunately someone is blind with their own eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61176	We're continuing the debate. Josip Boric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61177	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy. So here we talk all day about two very important laws for the Croatian road traffic system, now about railways. The truth is, there's no monetization we wouldn't be talking about both laws. So this law is also the result of the monetisation that follows in 2014 the monetization of highways. Interestingly, no one is talking about the monetization of Croatian railways. And that's a question that maybe we should open up. But I'm worried about something else. We in the procedure have a report from the Railway Market Regulatory Agency only for a full 6 months. And I thought it was exactly that report that was an opportunity to talk about HH. Unfortunately, we didn't see that coming. Now again, it's some 20 and some point, even though this report completely negates the story of the current government and some of the data presented here today in the opening speech. The situation on the Croatian railways is difficult, almost unsustainable. And the restructuring story ended in previous amendments to the Law on Croatian Railways, i.e. about railways when there was a reduction of the number of companies within HZ holding from then 5 to current 3 – HZ infrastructure, passenger transport and HZ Cargo. So we can know what we're talking about just a few details. HH infrastructure controls 2720 km of track. Of these, 1460 or almost 53% of international traffic, regional and local railways remained. The one-way tracks have 2500 and only 250 km or 9% is two-way. In 2012, there were 326 thousand and 676 trains, almost 1000 trains a day, falling from 10 thousand trains compared to 2010. When we get to traffic, the numbers are catastrophic. When I say that in the transport of passengers in 2010, we had 69.5 million passengers, and in 2012, we have 27 million talking about a decline of 42 million passengers. Can we figure out what this is about? The number of passengers transported in 2012 only fell 44% compared to 2011. The number of mileages has been reduced by 35%. Number of transported i.e. quantity of goods transported 7% and number of net tonne-kilometres 5% compared to 2011. In 2012, the infrastructure manager from the state budget had an amount of 855 million or 222 million less than in 2011. Last year, 333 million were meant for investment. The only good thing has happened in the past 20 days is a meeting of Transport Ministers in Vilnius where a decision has been taken on 9 EU basic transport infrastructure corridors that have reached and 2 passing corridors, i.e. However, when comparing these figures in rail transport with road traffic where we have at the level of 50 million passengers constantly varying in a million or lower, in maritime transport where we have 12 million passengers who also fall or rise by a hundred thousand passengers more or less and in air traffic 2 million passengers, we realize that these 40 million are less in just 2 years of disaster for Croatian railways. And it occurred in a way that clearly certain lines have been cut because the number of kilometres has been reduced and that is a lot of frequency of travel by Croatian trains if we can say so. What is visible is the problems that have been created by the new restructuring that is constantly being talked about when HZ trains have been attached partly to passenger transport and partly to HZ Cargo, HZ Cargo has become a loser. 350 new workers arrived, the salary amount increased even though 800 workers left the entire system these days were removed from the administration a few days ago because they did not fire 1200 or 1500 people from the system. The entire administration has been replaced because the fact that this society's incomes are monthly at a level of 30 million kuna and expenditures 60 million kuna, long-term unsustainable, and of course the state reacted seeking a strategic partner and privatising that society. And to make the problem bigger, we get absurd, that's 12 disputes, some of which are absurds. He's doing a five-and-a-half-kn'-kn' '89 lead. In the year, a gentleman asks for 336 million kuna. Can we believe that? It works 5 kunas 336 million kunas. The second works 61 thousand 727 million kuna. That's what hangs like a sword over that society's head. It seems that even these disputes can be lost, that's when everyone's in trouble. I'm not going to quote these other procedures there are 16 of them in all, and that's what might have been the future let's tell the strategic partner that drove them to think, as far as possible. Subsidies to this society could be interpreted by the European Union as unauthorized and this would create again hundreds of millions of euros in costs that one would have to compensate for. That's what we have to talk about today, and I'm sorry there's no minister to confirm or deny it because a large number of people in that system depend on it. What's interesting is that HH started buying us buses for replacement lines HZ is now hiring. He's got his own buses where some of the passengers are transporting by bus. And the worst part was they had their own bus company that was more expensive than this new one they bought. There's something wrong with that. We simply need to tell the truth because people need to hear and understand, it might be easier for us to justify what happened, a billion kunas of new loans to be taken care of by the famous, as the prime minister now said in the mountain range. It was low all the time, for ten years, now as he said mountainous lowland, mountainous lowland, which also the deputy had initially said where all the donations were directed, all the investments of HZ infrastructure that needed to increase the capacity or possibilities of the Rijeka port to the desired 22 million tonnes per year, and there gave up the plotted corridors. Everything that has been done for eight years, everything that has been drawn in the county office for spatial planning has removed the commission headed by the prime minister and decided to build an additional track from Škrljev to Skradnik, one investment worth 650m euros, and that this will actually be our two-way line Zagreb i.e. The river-Zagreb-Botovo even though we all know that in one great work it will still be in one direction only. There may also be the biggest challenge why you give up or continue with such a project. This government claims that small interventions can achieve a great result and that it is three times cheaper than what is planned. It is planned to go through the valley of Vindol not to list and all of this is drawn in the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County. What's that worth, who's it worth it to? What was everyone planning? Why the stories about the island of Krk and everything else, new bridges not to list when we will come down to a small improvisation that will obviously have to bring some kind of improvement. Whether it will be enough to satisfy what is required on corridor 5 b, whether it will be enough for development, the economic development of the Republic of Croatia is a question that will be answered by future time. I think, no matter what, we won't and that in the next few months we will witness the difficult moments in the Croatian Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61178	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61179	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 538. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 12 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61180	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 513 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister, here you are, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. There is a law before you on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. I'm just going to focus on those key changes that are covered by these changes. So, instead of making it easier to increase personal deductions for PPDS and mountainous mountainous areas, this bill attributes new aids to the use of increased personal deductions, for areas characterised by the special regulation on regional development of the Republic of Croatia as assisted areas and areas of the city of Vukovar. Following this, taxpayers who have residence, residence in the assisted areas of the first group and the area of the town of Vukovar may use a personal deduction of 3200 kuna per month, i.e. taxpayers who have residence and residence in the assisted areas of the second group may use a personal deduction of 2700 kuna per month. Furthermore, the law allows taxpayers who carry out their own activity and employ more than two workers indefinitely, tax reliefs used in the form of tax exemptions from income tax on taxpayers carrying out activities in the area which, according to the specific regulation, are identified as the assisted area of the first group and the area of the city of Vukovar and the reduction of income tax by 50% of those activities, to taxpayers who, according to regional development, are identified as assisted areas of the second group. In this way, income tax bonds carrying out an independent activity with profit-based taxpayers operating in the mentioned areas are equated and such legal solutions are recognised in the same way as income tax and income tax bonds and tax reliefs. They are certainly at the level of the rules of these aids, small values, meaning up to 200 000 euros and a million and a half kuna in three fiscal years when they accumulate up to that amount are actually worth the tax relief. It is then attributed to this law that the allocation of or optional purchase of own shares to workers under favourable conditions is considered to be an attachment in nature on the basis of unsustainable work, the salary of these workers no longer as income from capital and what is important here to say that the law originally proposed here was the obligation to submit an annual tax application for natural persons who make a second income during the tax period, it seems to me that at the meeting of the Government's telephone session, today that you were given to your benches to delete those provisions by means of the amendment, and therefore these provisions will be subject to the mandatory submission of an annual tax application for the second income achieved. A more detailed analysis will also be carried out and, in particular, analysis based on the statistical data to be obtained from this form, which has now been available since 1.1.2014. And since this form will cover a large range of taxable and non-taxable receipts and will also allow for a better image in the tax force, the taxpayer. Also, what is important here to say is that this law prescribes infringement provisions for non-paying taxpayers, did not pay tax on the income obtained within the prescribed time limit or in the prescribed amount, that they did not provide information on the start-up of the activity, which has actually been prescribed by that general tax law so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61182	Thank you, too. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, here's what we've prepared for the second income debate. I don't know what to say, whether this kind of policy has become unserious or ridiculous, I don't know, from today to tomorrow we have to study the government's amendments that, after some discussion in public, realize that some things might be fast and that we're not doing them right because I don't think it leads to anything and I just feel the need to say it. But right now, let's go to this law as it is left on this part that's left in it. The fact is that taxpayers who have residence and work in units of local self-government classified in the first and second group of development by special regulation can now benefit from a reduced personal deduction with the third category that has been in the amount of 2400 deletes to remain first and second category. And with those who have so far been in the first category losing a personal deduction of 640 kuna and those who have lost a personal deduction in the second group of 500 kuna. Also, craftsmen engaged in certain activities in this area, which only means that we have again increased the burden on those citizens who live and operate there, so that the state, according to this projection, what it says in the preface of this law, will burn about 100 million kunas. But those 100 million kunas will be spent on one thing. And if those 100 million kunas had remained on the ground through personal consumption, via VAT, that those 100 million kunas might have turned into entrepreneurship if nothing else in these craftsmen, then I think they'd finally make a bigger profit. But good, what's there. What I would like to point out is Article 8 amending Article 66, which concerns monthly, quarterly or one-time tax advances after the tax administration's tax administration's decision on advances, so to speak income tax. This year, we witnessed that the tax administration changed tax bonds through the year, except that we introduced fiscalization, that traffic would be much, much higher and that therefore it was going to change the tax-to-income tax ruling and that maybe that was the case. Great, I think a large number of entrepreneurs would agree with that, a craftsman might agree with that. However, what was extremely ugly to see was that craftsmen received solutions with 7 thousand kuna fines because income tax advances did not pay within the deadline. And that wasn't good, it was extremely bad because we again made one situation that the state once in a month or in a month and a half purchases certain funds without even paying off how much it burdens craftsmen at that time if a solution of 7 thousand kunas came to him for not paying advances or a reduced payment even the advance where his jury was blocked. Because you have to admit yourself that 7000 or 7500 and in most cases there were amounts and solutions that were sent to the field this summer are not little for any entrepreneur and I think we should finally understand that the tax administration and entrepreneurs are and must be business partners and that the budget will boost money and boost revenues at the time when the revenues are made and entrepreneurs, or craftsmen. And as repressive as we want to fill a budget hole in such a way as to make sure we don't give a shit how much damage it will bring to the economy. We're not doing well and we're doing a much bigger problem in the long run than the problem at which we need a certain amount of money. But here's how many incompetences are blocked we have after another dot and then we'll get a little bit more on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61184	Thank you. We have one replica. Tomislav Klaric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61185	Comrade Tyrelli, in your introduction you said how serious we are and how thoughtfully we are in this way and the Constitutional Court warned 85-90% of the law is being passed by some kind of emergency procedure. When I asked a fellow MP from Gorski Kotar how you could even support such a law on mountainous and mountainous areas, municipalities and cities... they promised to give it to us in another way through some kind of incentive. They took something that was definitely theirs and that they could plan in the budgets to promise to give them something through something. Now what you're talking about is now these areas are on fire again. And we're talking about saving, as you've calculated yourself, some 100ths, 150 million kunas, in this hill-mounted area, we're talking about saving from some as Mr. Greek wrote 10-15 million kunas. What did we save? Nothing. And those units of local self-government, those craftsmen in them, who can barely make ends meet instead of being able to make it even more possible for them to survive and to build, to build and work, this way is taken away from them, and the way in which these laws are passed by the urgent process of patching holes in the budget, where we run this country. It raises the question of all of us, and it is the responsibility of those who raise their hands in this way for such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61186	Thank you. Answer, colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61187	Comrade Klaric, thank you for the replica very briefly. I think we have stopped believing in the promises they make, and often we are the very witnesses here in this high house when we are discussing that it is not good to pass the laws in haste to think, that it is necessary to listen to those who enforce the laws in practice that the laws are actually living what they need to be, it is not heard, and at that point it is most easy to promise that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow a new law is coming which is precisely to be addressed. However, we are witnessing that this is not the case, and I think that we all have to do it together, whether we are opposition or we are ruling, think about why we raise our hands because in the long run this concerns not only us but essentially each of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61188	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy, ma'am. I honestly couldn't believe when I heard on Monday on the news that the Income Tax Act is changing for the simple reason that it's better not to do anything than to play with tax laws. We send one terrible negative message and another thing, when taxes are at stake then the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance sets out its arguments why it proposes amendments to the law, and ultimately politics makes a decision and only then can the law be found at a session of the Government and in the Croatian Parliament. Everything else is freakish, everything else is funny and everything else is sending one horrible, horrible bad message. I don't want to go in who's being blackmailed, who's doing what, but even in the debate on profit tax law, we practically agreed here, all of us, regardless of whether we were on the left or right, that and for that law... the law had to be passed first of all by the Regional Development Act. And as far as this famous amendment is concerned, I honestly say, by reading the amendment of the Government to me, it is not clear why the Government has submitted it in this form, because when you look at except two or three words of the amendments to the Government is exactly the same as the text contained in the legislative proposal, because your colleagues and colleagues are practically in the legislative proposal on Article 4 of Article 39(2) behind the words, etc., the point is deleted and the words that are read and/or added to point 2. So I really don't understand the amendment to the government. But I repeat, these things can't simply happen because when you look at these two years as much as there have been changes in tax laws, then you will see that so many tax changes have not been in the past 10 years. Because I repeat, it is not good to send messages, especially if you tax on a group that is very interesting because these taxes are tangling the cream of the Croatian University, the cream of Croatian science, and also people who are able to do something so that it can be called an author's fee, and they should generally be creators and certain jobs tomorrow as regards both EU funds and all that together. Whether this should have been done differently, simply in tax accounting there are such types of income, the Tax Administration knows exactly how many such incomes are and what would have been taxed and whether a part of them would have resorted to the establishment of companies and practically all of what they had so far been an author's fee to them through companies, so these companies reported in one room in their apartment, then furniture from that room was recorded as amortisation which the final fiscal effect of that would have been zero. I think that should be made clear because these people aren't stupid. After all, as much as the state is struggling to collect taxes, so much is the one who needs to pay the tax using all the legal options to pay as little taxes as possible, and it's one constant game since God and man, it's a game like that all the time. The question is who's going to hook who up on which step and who's going to be faster to catch someone. So if the IRS has made such calculations and calculations, then there are probably indicators as to why it proposed such a law. If he suggested it then I believe that everything that happened later was extremely unserious, despite the fact that the Croatian Democratic Community's representative club was against such a proposal. However, this is now a debate at the principle level, what simply must not happen to us. Because how can we say that the country is suitable for investors if these changes happen to you, and look today is practically the second month. Someone who would invest some money in Croatia should have hired some people for certain jobs. I don't know how much that whole story is gonna cost him because he doesn't know what tax is gonna be. Otherwise, it is not wise to change taxes at 12 months because all those to which they apply can hardly be adjusted until their application. But I'm saying, what happened, it's not good, and now we're going to go to the bill, this second part, that's going to remain an integral part. Therefore, I believe that the amendments to both this law and the Law on profit tax should not have gone before the Law on Regional Development was passed. Why? So for the simple reason here in the budget's explanation, this is how the expenditure of the state budget is going to be reduced by 100 million kuna. Now, I'm curious whether, given this amendment to Article 4, whether this amount would change as far as 100 million kuna is concerned, because apparently, if the government wanted to tax the copyright fees, it was expected to collect certain revenue from that basis. Then this amount of 100 million kuna no longer drinks water, so that should change. But it's very interesting in this article, I think it's Article 6 and in the old law it's Article 54, where in the old law it's said that the first group in the field of special state care have 3840 kuna untaxable parts of income. However, following the new draft law in Article 6 we propose that this be reduced to 3200 for the first group of assisted areas, no more areas than specific public concerns. We have thus made a direct tax strike on people from the area of special state concern. No longer can the Prime Minister say we didn't raise our taxes. This is a clean tax hike. Because if by now you're not supposed to pay income tax to 3840 kuna, then you still have to pay 3600 kuna or 3700 kuna, and now that amount is reduced to 3200 kuna, then the logical thing is that whoever has so far had 3600 kuna or 3700 kuna is not supposed to pay taxes and now, at that difference of 400 or 500 kuna, they're going to have to pay a 12% tax rate. Therefore, it is a tax burden on citizens in the area of special state care, but it is also interesting in the old law, so in fact in this law which is still valid, in paragraph 2 and in paragraph 3 the areas of the second and third groups in the areas of special state care and mountainous areas where in the second group the non-taxable part was 3200, and in the third group there were 2400. And look what the legislator is offering us now. There are no more 2nd and 3rd groups of areas of special state care and mountain-mounted areas, but all of this in jutura is agreed in one group which will be another group of areas, assisted areas and there will be an untaxed part of your income as a golden arithmetic environment. So it's not going to be 3200, it's not going to be 2400, it's going to be 2700 kuna. So, you cut both sides of the budget by 100 million kuna, and the logical thing is that in the light of the law, it's said that in this way the spending side of the budget will be reduced by 100 million kuna. However, frankly speaking, the revenue side of the budget will also increase because the tax part has been reduced, and one part of the income tax enters the state budget. The second thing is that this part of income is used for the Compensation Fund for Decentralised Functions, which is paid back to income tax pursuant to Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the implementation of the state budget. However, this is the case when it is looked at in some total amount of State budget revenue and with this basis the revenues of the state budget are increased. So, colleagues and colleagues, everything is offered a lot, not offered anything. But I think that once we've already gone to change the Law on Income Tax that two things that are often the target of political bickering and these are sports premiums and generally compensation for athletes to be dealt with in one appropriate way regardless of how it is going to be, but that it's finally incorporated into the law and that it's known if the athlete is registered at the club, the club pays him pension and health care. So he's got some kind of salary. The money he gets above that amount as well as how he's taxed. Whether it's going to be some kind of income without a personal deduction, so that's going to admit to some kind of flat-rate cost or any other way, but I think it's high time to get rid of it. Also, to settle all fees paid at amateur sports games because ultimately what you pay for those fees that these people get is back into the city budget and it's spilling from hollow to empty. And if we're going to raise amateur sports, that's something we should define. And one topic I'm always talking about, and I'm going to talk about because I think these people have been brought on by an extremely large injustice, which is taxation of foreign pensions. So, these people, if they made a pension greater than the amount that is untaxable in the country where they spent their working life there, pay taxes based on the Double Taxation Law that Croatia has signed with almost most of the countries in the world will not pay taxes. But it is not fair if someone worked in a country where the average salary was 5, 6, 7 times higher than in Croatia, if he went to work abroad because he was simply forced to leave because there was no existence for him or his family, that today when he returned home we punish him in such a way that he had to pay income tax, and people have one Solomonian solution, again everyone will go and go somewhere else and won't pay that. But the biggest problem is the overseas countries. North and South America and Australia. So, these people, when they come back, Croatia, I don't think there's a deal with America signed with Australia to avoid double taxation either. These people, many of these people up to the '90s. They should not have come to Croatia, many. And they weren't terrorists or anything but simply found themselves on the list of some political emigrants, and now that they've earned their pension they want to come back. Many of them have considerable savings, however, they would like to invest in Croatia, given that there is no agreement on health insurance, and since their pensions far above the average Croatian pensions under this bill are subject to taxation by many of them unfortunately stay for 3, 4, 5 months in Croatia, 6 months in a country where they have achieved their economic existence for themselves and their family in the past 30, 40 years and will likely live. Instead of attracting them to have them and their children who are the second or third generation come to Croatia, to have the capital they have earned there invest in Croatia, to transfer their rich, professional and educational knowledge to Croatia and to use it in a certain way to make them leave Croatia. And regardless of what someone might say that certain articles are not changing the HDZ club again, the amendment we propose to the Government to exclude foreign pensions from taxation and that in such a way those who have been punished and who in the '50s and '60s had to leave Croatia for this reason or that reason, I repeat, look at the census in '61, see the list of the population now 2011 especially for the neighbouring Republic of BiH, and you will see how many areas that were traditionally inhabited by Croats were unfortunately lost by Croats. Mostly economic emigration, and many unfortunately the war imposed by the Serb army. So these are the facts. And to conclude, the HDZ club will not support this law, and we believe that what happened on Monday is a phone session, and frankly speaking, I don't remember the last time this government had a phone session, it's not something that's just not good for Croatia, it's not good for the Croatian government, it's not good for the Ministry of Finance. And this sort of thing gets us into a mess, and it's not a mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61190	Thank you. We have replicas. Tomislav Klaric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61191	You said that change should not have gone before a decision on regional development was made, especially in my opinion, it should not have gone this way as you changed on Monday. But that key word from your statement that we're sending. Yesterday I had an assembly of my industrial zone, and we were bringing in the 2014 plan. And now after all this that's happening that we can tell the investor who's coming to us what's waiting for him in the next and next years and how much is in Croatia something that we tell them for sure? According to this, there's definitely nothing safe. You also mentioned the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas by emergency procedure, I hope that someone at the government's telephone session will remember and that part of the story will correct that it is not to the detriment of all the local self-government units. We've been talking practically 2 years about real estate tax. The prime minister said the other day they would bring it but must agree with a coalition partner. And we are talking about that Croatia needs investors and investments and investments abroad and any kind of investment. And we are often in contact with some such investors but we definitely can't promise them anything in advance that awaits them in terms of tax and whether they will pay a municipal fee or a real estate tax on anything because we definitely don't have a Regional Development Strategy, nor do we have a strategy at all, the 150, 70, 20/20 million-euro Strategic Investment Act is the same on this trail, also adopted by an emergency procedure. How many more laws are we going to pass by an emergency procedure, so the government will probably change it for itself at the phone sessions of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61192	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61193	Thank you very much. So, counterpart Klaric, the logical thing is that the IRS makes an assessment and assess whether there is a need to expand the tax base for taxing something, whether certain taxes should be raised, reduced and what their effect will be and that it will therefore make a political decision. They're all ultimately political decisions. Every tax change is a political decision. It affects either the plus or the minus the state budget, and it can in any way affect how attractive or unattractive an area will be as regards investment. And is the decision of this law respected? Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. After all, the law is also the basis for tomorrow, practically raising funds from European funds. The law is the basis for a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. This law was not passed, we were pushed by some other laws that, if they had already been passed because this law had not been passed, they had to be technical. But it's not good if you've had in the first group of areas of special state care an untaxable part of 3840 kuna that it now falls to 3200 kuna. If you have so far had a second and third group that had an untaxable part of 3200 and 2400 to put it all in one group where the non-taxable part is going to be 2700. If someone wanted to make it easier for tax purposes, this or that reason did not make a small difference whether you plan a net salary with a deduction of 3200 or 3840 kuna. Because if you have a few dozen or a few hundred workers, then when you take that part, it's not exactly a small amount of money. But I repeat the policy is the one that makes the decision, but it is the profession that makes what is to be done in taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61194	Thank you. Nadica Jelesh replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61195	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you said in your debate that this law deprives citizens in areas of special state care because it reduces them by a certain amount of personal deduction by 400 or 500 or 600 kuna, respectively. I must remind you of one of the remarks you made when we discussed the budget rebalancing for 2013. Thus, on this side, we listed all the measures taken by the State to reduce tax pressure and to allow the economy to breathe, i.e. to start this economic growth. Among other things, we said that by reducing contributions to health insurance to entrepreneurs, two billion kunas were left behind. You were reacting then so you said it in the crowd might seem a lot but individually when it disintegrates to entrepreneurs, then it looks very little, symbolic or almost nothing. So now through this law of the state will sting you said it yourself, some hundred million kunas. It is now an awful lot to take from citizens and the fact that two billion kunas have been left to the economy at the same time, is not much, or is nothing. I don't think it's right in this populist way to say or evaluate things from situation to situation as we do when it suits us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61196	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61197	My colleague Jelash, what I was saying when I changed the law on contributions, I'm going to say now. This is one of the biggest mistakes this government has made, the biggest benefit of which was the state budget, with 600 million kunas are reduced wage costs, the next that have benefited are state-owned companies that have a relatively high salary average, local self-government units. After that, the banking sector, not the copper financial sector, therefore insurance companies, Leasing companies that have a very high average of salaries and telecommunications houses. So they had the greatest benefit of it, but none of them invested something. Unfortunately, those who have low wages and who have intensive work did not mean anything to them, unfortunately it did not mean anything to them. But you can't say if someone else's 3840 kuna was untaxable and by this law you suggest that it's no longer 3840 kuna but that it's 3200 kuna, that these people in the area of special state care don't mean anything, that something you simply can't compare. This is a matter that personally concerns every man who works, and this is a company and I keep saying when these health contributions are calculated it's 2 billion and 600 and 700, and when you look at a pile in the state budget, it's a terrible lot, but when you break it down to hundreds of thousands of health contributions and when you get 90% of the ones I've added to you, then unfortunately it doesn't have an effect for those who should have invested. That's a fact. In the end, it is seen because there is no investment on this basis. Someone who's costing less than 30, 40, 50 thousand kuna can't start any investment with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61198	Thank you. And Goran Maric's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61199	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you were talking about the variability of tax regulations. So all regulations are passed for the sake of more economic activity, for the sake of investments, incentives, entrepreneurial activities and, in fact, investments and business activities run away from the change of tax regulations, they run away from tax uncertainty, and as often as it is a change, it is tax uncertainty greater. In fact, we are doing everything possible to prevent economic activity, no matter who invests in tax uncertainty and any change causes tax uncertainty, and it is necessary to prepare for adapting to the tax new system for at least a year. It is harmful and unnecessary and ineffective to pass today a tax regulation that is applicable tomorrow, so who instead of tax study should have a college to monitor changes in the tax system. It's so impossible, it's complicatedly inconclusive. It is also incomprehensible to him, as this income tax is, as it is, so complicated at all, who will say if the income is defined as the income difference between income and expenditure in the same tax period and intellectual effort is costlessly immeasurable, no matter who will cost it, but it is the easiest thing for those who do not have intellectual effort in Croatia. And as for injustice, the greatest injustice is done to those who had to flee for political or economic reasons abroad who earned their pensions and are now being punished, their return being punished, and the further they had to flee, the more they are punished, because the most punished are those who had to flee to America. That's inadmissible. The pension tax abroad must not be in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61200	It's time. Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61201	Yes, colleague Maric, I'll begin the reply to the replica with this last thing you said. Therefore, the HDZ Club insists on giving the Government an amendment to the Income Tax Act to abolish the pension tax. And when the introduction of actually reforming the tax system in the Republic of Croatia when income tax as such revived, pension tax was abolished. The amount of the non-taxable pension work in Croatia is precisely known why it was 3600 kuna, so it was claimed that it once paid that famous tax municipal and republican and federal and therefore 3600 kuna was an untaxable pension in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those who had to leave just because they belonged to a nation from certain areas migrated economically and unfortunately it was economic political migration, many of them were not allowed to return to Croatia until the 1990s were now punished when they and their children wanted to come, and even if they invested money in Croatia, they were punished with this, and as far as tax relief is concerned, it is not a prerequisite for a country to be interested in investors. Political stability and tax stability are two basic preconditions if someone comes to invest somewhere. How do people feel at the time of Croatia's biggest economic growth in 2003, '04, '05, '06. invested in Croatia and then they were told no capital tax. In 2004, the law was amended and you will no longer pay for it. They invested money and now someone comes to them and retroactively introduces a dividend tax. Not only that, but also many small Croatian entrepreneurs who kept the assets in the company as their own crafts assets because they were the cheapest being punished. Because now, if they want to raise those funds, they have to pay the dividend tax, and many of them are unfortunately in debt to pay off their dividends and back to their company to borrow money so they can pay. It's all you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61202	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61203	100 units of local self-government that were more developed than the average of the Republic of Croatia. So, which should not have been the beneficiaries of tax relief. While at the same time 80 units under the average developed local self-government units were outside the PPDS system and they were not transported from the state and should have been. The new system of assisted areas is based on a development index that provides for two groups of development. The first includes units of local self-government whose index of development is up to 75% the development of Croatia as well as bonds of the city of Vukovar. The second group of development includes units of local self-government above 75% of Croatia's development. Thus, the new personal deduction for taxpayers resident in the area of units of local self-government classified in the first group of development as well as for taxpayers from the city of Vukovar will be 3200 kuna per month, while for taxpayers from the second group of development, the new monthly deduction will be 2700 kuna per month. I remind you, the personal deductions so far were 3840 kuna for the first group of PPDS, 3200 kuna for the second group of PPDS and 2400 kuna for the third group of PPDS as well as for mountainous mountain areas. So far, the state has brought down units of local self-government that are on the list of assisted areas of about a billion and 200 million kuna. This legislative proposal should reduce this amount, we have heard this about a hundred million kuna in 2014 and in 2015 the effect should be twice as much. So it should be about 200 million kuna. In the end, I must remind myself that the tax reliefs for PPDS fully expire in 2016. So there won't be any after that. So that local self-government units do not suffer shocks due to revenue cuts, so that they do not have financial problems and difficulties will have a transitional period of one year. Therefore, for this one adjustment by the beginning of 2015, when a new Regional Development Act should enter into force. In addition, for those units of local self-government that are so far within the PPDS system and have a development index below 75% of the national average will actually not change anything by this law. And now a few more words about what further changes this legislative proposal makes. Therefore, the law makes tax reliefs in the form of tax exemptions. Thus, taxpayers from the units of the local self-government of the first group of development that carry out their own activity and have at least two workers employed indefinitely will be fully exempt from paying income taxes. While those in the unit area of the local self-government of the second group of income tax development will be reduced by 50%. These reliefs may be used in accordance with the rules applicable to support small value. So, up to 200 grand a year. Certain amendments to the law are also related to the taxation of the reception of our euro-parliamentaries. Thus, Croatian MPs in the European Parliament who pay the advance tax on their representation income abroad, so Belgium or France will be exempt from paying income tax advances in Croatia in accordance with the rules on avoidance of double taxation, but they will also have to submit an annual tax application. Taxes will be included in their sad tax obligations and thus will prevent their income from being taxed again in Croatia. Furthermore, infringement provisions have been introduced into this law for those taxpayers who do not pay one-off tax after the tax administration has been resolved. It is that these provisions were deleted from the General Tax Code, so they had to be installed somewhere, so they were incorporated into the Income Tax Act. And a few more words about the important change that was provided for in the original text of this legislative proposal, so it is the obligation to submit an annual tax application for natural persons who, during the tax period, make the so-called Second income. It is therefore an income achieved by its own work, regardless of the legal relationship between the payer and the person who made the work. So far, those persons have paid a 25 per cent tax advance on other incomes, and that was final taxation and these taxpayers were not obliged to submit an annual tax application. Now, the reason for the introduction of the annual tax application obligation for the second income was to learn that among these taxpayers there were also numerous managers from companies, especially from business banks that received huge bonuses and rewards, and that the current model of taxation at the rate of 25% were actually a huge privilege, and the state was actually cut off for tax. That other incomes in Croatian tax practice are by no means a marginal phenomenon is clear from the data that during 2012, the second income was made by about 200,000 taxpayers in total amounting to €2.5 billion. The interesting thing about this story is that 100,000 taxpayers, so each other whose incomes amounted to a billion and a half kuna, filed an annual application. And why they did it, because it was in their favor, because they were getting their taxes back. The amendments and additions therefore proposed to those originals a uniform taxation of labour income, i.e. 12, 25 and 40% and for those other 100,000 taxpayers. It is estimated that the budget revenues should increase by around 80 million kuna, which is important to highlight, so it is really important to stress that these are not the revenues of the state budget, it is entirely about the revenues of local self-government units, so our municipalities, cities and counties. These provisions were to apply to the submission of the annual tax application for 2014, but this morning we received an amendment from the Government, and the amendment to the Government was deleted from the proposal on the mandatory submission of an annual tax application for natural persons who made second income during the tax period, with the reason that the original proposal would be more detailed and analysed by the basis of data from the new JOPPD form. Let me say a few words about that pattern. So JOPPD is actually a report on income, income tax and tax and contributions to compulsory insurance. This form is one joint project of the Tax Administration and REGOS, introduced as I said from 1 January 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules on Changes and Supplements of the Income Tax Regulation and this form will be replaced from the beginning of the following year by five valid forms, i.e. form ID1, IDD, IDD1 and RSN form, so all these five forms will be incorporated into this one. The aforementioned form will contain a large range of taxable and non-taxable receipts and will provide one more quality basis for a court of tax power for each individual taxpayer. To conclude, the point of this legislative proposal as well as all the others in this package that we discussed 10 days ago and we've already forgotten a little bit, is to make savings on the expenditure side of the budget. The SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61204	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61205	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelash, you were talking about the receipts and information the IRS has in all the receipts that taxpayers have. Tax administration has no information on interest amounts on savings. By definition, the receipts are good, money, things, material rights, services and other, interest on savings is receiving. Is it good to tax interest on savings or not, or to receive interest on savings or not, it depends on the situation. But if we were to observe the Croatian situation, then we would have to analyse and see that the savings interest were once three times the inflation rate, then the need to tax such incomes against interest is necessarily imposed. While the inflation rate was 2.5%, some had interest receipts of 6.5% a year. Why not consider that if someone has an annual receipt of more than 10,000 euros based on interest, then it's not exactly a saving for black days, it's something else. Then that means he's living off saving, and he doesn't want to invest. If the interest rate is above the inflation rate, then why not tax the amount above the average, the amount above the inflation rate to the amount of interest. Then a high interest rate would be detimised at a passive interest rate and investment would be stimulated. And we're not taxing it at all, and you even announced it in Plan 21. So, I'm not into collectively taxing interest on savings, but on selective when it becomes a source of profit, not a source of savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61206	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61207	Comrade Maric, you're in a lot of right. So, the truth is that saving in Croatia is growing, it is still growing even though not as intense as in those years before the economic crisis. But the fact is it's growing right now in banks is about 180 billion deposits, so saving what citizens, which is economic operators. The truth is that there was a thought that interest should be taxed, and I would agree. However, right now, I think you should tax them for one simple reason, which would really be an incentive for citizens and entrepreneurs not to accumulate those funds in banks, and then live on savings, so interest on savings. It would be very good to find a model to make these huge funds, that one extremely valuable national resource I would say put into function economic growth. Would that be through the interest tax law? Yes, that is income, however, this government will judge whether this is the time to go on such taxation or we will wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61208	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61209	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mrs. Hope, I welcome you. Yes, it would be fairer to tax the savings interest that passes, so more than 10,000 euros than to tax pensions that someone has earned by hard work, mostly by hard work abroad. If justice is mentioned and is mentioned very often by the President of the Republic, then this is a real example. Now you see me, now you can't see me. There's one password for one phenomenon, so there's our tax system. There will be second income taxation in three different steps of 12, 25, 40%. It was yesterday, no taxes this morning. We saw him yesterday. He's gone today. There will be no Peljek Bridge, but now there will be a Peljega Bridge. Now he's gone, now he's got it, etcetera. And so this government that I don't say manipulates or actually doesn't know, so one day like this, one day like that because there's no attitude almost around anything. I'm not an economic expert. I'd rather cut it with a knife as a surgeon and cut off what's sick, but unfortunately I can't. So here was the talk of tax aggression, and then the tax bite. So starting with an increase in VAT from 23% to 25% still. Then Shuker is said to be a tax strike against people in the area of special state care and mountain-mounted areas. Then he says tax insecurity. So, all of this together is just reflecting, painting, mirroring, and in this legislative proposal in which the amendment to the Government, this other income actually gave up on it. And here we hear who would belong to a group of those who would be taxed. It is also true that some university professors, some doctors, etc. We might be in those groups of 25% and 40%, but first of all I heard in the media that there we are, because of the middle class, we are not taxing the second income, and in fact it's pretty much about journalists. And they're in quite a number, so maybe trying to gain the bias and favor of the media and journalists and then maybe someone in the government put a little bit of that on. And the information that 200000 people in the Republic of Croatia who Mrs Jelas has made well has a second income and that is 2 and a half billion kuna is really impressive. JOPPD from next year. Well, we've been having some changes all the time, and I said there's been some kind of change, and now you see me, and now you don't see me, and even in this tax system. It is good to cover every income of all our citizens with a particular form. We know we've been filling that out, reporting to the IRS. And I come to the IRS and I report taxes, and then I'm surprised when the IRS tells me there and you've got something else from the court. He already knows. So what am I even reporting when he knows everything I've received and now without the JOPPD? I guess it's a unique form of income tax rules. He says don't forget it, you didn't bring confirmation for it. So, he warned me that I forgot to bring something else. So there's everything there, everything in the computer has but good. And we can't fix that tax system. But what I wanted in particular to point out is that what this is called a professional downsizing that this law has prescribed for residents, so residents in the area of special state care, for their salaries or for craftsmen, in fact, in some ways I would say for another 100 million kunas centralizing funds. So for 100 million kunas, let's say a richer state, i.e. the IRS, the Ministry of Finance. To take that away from those who are called areas of special state care, people in the area and mountain-mounted areas. And a little bit of that tax bite of the local self-government unit in a variety of ways. And here's this law in a special way. So is the town of Vukovar, too. I know that an agreement has been signed with the EU and the European Commission on 31.12.2016, so with 1.01.2017, there will be no more relief, no more areas of special state concern or mountainous areas. What is said to be a 75% development index, so the limit, but the development index of the average of the Republic of Croatia, not the EU, would then be all municipalities in that group undeveloped because our relationship with Zagreb is, say, 120% of the EU's GDP average and Slavonia's 35%. So almost average, but almost all municipalities in Slavonia would belong to that group. I say, almost everything or not all. Is this system that makes tax relief easier for residents or citizens in PPDS and mountain-mounted areas fairer, or is it a fairer system that respects the index of the development of certain municipalities? Because it's also true that this system has caused a certain disorder, so then we have a community here, for example. The ship's stupnik, which is not in the area of special state care or Oriovac Municipality, is in the area of special state care and the development index is greater, for example, in Brod Stupnik than in Oriovac. Or there are reverse cases. It's hard to actually assess, but those who are in the first and second groups know that especially in the first group were affected by a war storm like our city of Vukovar, which is truly more torn down and destroyed than Hiroshima in '45. A year. But here comes the time to meet obligations towards Europe, and now, once again, a small tax bite of 100 million dollars is pinched on the state budget. Now that we're talking about our Europarliamentaries, I was an observer myself, I remember the SDP and Kukuriku elections coalition for the Euro Parliament. Has the prime minister gathered candidates for the Euro Parliament said that all Europarliamentaries selected from the list of Kukuriku coalitions will have only as much salary as they have in the Parliament, and all the rest will be given in one fund or the "Ana Rukavina Foundation"? Did you watch the news then, the show? Now he says here in this case they are included in this material of this law and says they pay taxes in Brussels or Strasbourg depending on it because they are two European Parliament seats and that Croatia therefore has no tax obligations to their country from which it comes, towards Croatia. Well, maybe it shouldn't be when they're getting paid just like we are Parliamentarians, say, small wages. Now, there are also good elements, especially from the debate that Mrs. Jelas put out, where she is trying somehow to other municipalities that stayed below that development index or underdevelopment better said to help in some other system of regional development, but to say a little help, and yet there are elements of saying tax instability, uncertainty, new tax bite and aggression, tax shock. So because the impact is precisely on areas of special state concern and mountainous areas of the HDSSB club will be restrained by voting in connection with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61210	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You spoke of justice as the basis of the tax system. The tax system must be fair, but the tax burden must be proportionate to the fiscal strength of the taxpayer. And if we compare now whether the fiscal capacity is greater than the one that receives the pension of 2500 kuna or the one who received 100 million kuna interest on savings in one year. I think it's immeasurable. And that's what the Deputy Minister of Finance knows. There are those who received 100 million kunas of interest on savings in one year and are not tax-laden. Is that justice? Well, it can never be called, but I can't use the word I think. And now burden tax returnees from America, Australia from Argentina who would like to spend their last days of life and first days in Croatia because many of their parents emigrated because of Croatia. Now prevent them from using tax despotism to prevent them from buying that property from their savings, from spending their pension in Croatia, from increasing consumption, which is, that is, unreasonable. We consciously view such logic and rationality. So foreign companies or natural persons gave capital to save Croatia because abroad interest was 0.2% and here they received 6.5 to 7% and inflation rate is 2.5% and they raised interest on savings without any tax burden. And there are those in Croatia. 90% of the savings in Croatia are held by 2,000 individuals of natural and legal persons, and such billions of kuna interest on savings were taken without any tax burden, but we will therefore burden those who do not have the power to direct and pay for electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61212	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61213	Thank you, colleague Maric, and thank you, President. I really know that you're processing the data and the fact that only 2,000 people make the interest on the amount we're talking about here and that's not taxed. If someone at the savings, so on interest on savings gets 100 million kuna, my late grandmother would say you know because you're from the same end in the name of Jesus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61214	We're moving on with an individual debate of MPs. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61215	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, in this proposal, the media for the interested public in the present proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax has given a strong alert to Article 4 amending Article 39 of the applicable Income Act and Article 5 amending Article 40 of the applicable Law, which prescribes the obligation of an annual tax application to all those who have made the second income. Other income, as has already been said many times today, among other fees to athletes amateurs, representatives of representative bodies, board members, etc., and similar payments to all who work for a fee of a specific author's work or project or similar, or under contract of work for short-term, occasional jobs. The main difference between the fee and the contract on the part is that, according to the contract on the part, contributions and taxes are paid and only taxes are paid for the fee. The fee also has to 30% of the total grossly recognised flat-rate cost for which the tax base is reduced. The base on which the tax is charged in the case of an act contract is grossly reduced for contributions. The joint fee and contract on the part of the company is a flat-rate advance of 25% on the basis. The tax shall be payable by the payer of the fee or contract at the time of payment of the net fee or by the payee under the contract of the action. Tax payment at a rate of 25% for the second income achieved is prescribed in Article 48 of the Income Tax Act, although so far there have been eight amendments and the addition of that law has not been amended in any of the provisions in the flat-rate tax rate of 25% to the second income. Only proposed to amend the applicable Articles 39 and 40. The law is an obligation to file an annual tax application for second-income recipients. Even so, no one has prevented other income recipients from filing annual tax returns. They did it or they didn't, as according to their own material condition, they found it best for him. In both cases, the state remained depreciated, this is how, the person xy receives a monthly council fee of 1500 kuna net, plus the fee of xy receives a pension and before that, the salary, the receipt of non-permanent work. As she received the salary at the top of the 25% tax grade, the second income from the council fee from the total annual income increased so much that the total annual income achieved passed to the higher tax grade and was due to be paid by such a person to the State by the tax difference per year’s tax application. Since the person oxy did not report the second income of the state, it remained denied. When a person oxy started to receive a pension, the sum of her monthly pensions per year did not exceed the first lowest tax rate of 12%. With the receipt of council fees which were flatly taxed at a rate of 25%, the right to an annual tax refund was obtained. So the person xy is now stimulated every year to report to the tax administration their total annual receipts. The state returns the overpaid amount of tax to that person each year for a second income due to a 25% flat rate. However, that tax was not paid by the person xy, but by someone third who might actually have a greater right to return that rate. By reviewing the 2003 laws and any changes and additions so far, I have found nothing that would significantly affect the current situation of any recipient, or the payer of another income. If I am well aware of the provision of 25% advances or flat-rates, the second income tax remains intact and the Ministry of Finance did not propose to amend Article 48. Although the Government, or the Ministry of Finance at this time, and this is evident from the Government's proposal for an amendment, has waived the obligation to submit a tax application, it is evident from the reasons for the first amendment of the Government that the ministry did not fully give up, but only temporarily until further analysis is carried out based on the data obtained from the new form that has started to apply since 1.1.2014. I guess, therefore, knowing Minister Linic that this provision from which the government currently gave up in subsequent amendments to the law will be consummated. This means that in the future, some of the additional rules could really prescribe the application of different tax rates, when the second income on an individual fee is paid and leave the payment of the tax as an obligation for the payer, which could lead to the next deviation, the split of higher amounts of fees on the smaller ones due to the lower tax, the absurd situation, for example, is not excluded. to take on more minor due to lower taxes. An absurd situation, for example, is not excluded, for a writer of a novel is paid by written chapters and not by a book as a whole. In that case, the payer would transfer all the tax burden to the payer, and he would pay only 12%. On the other hand, although it may be thought that second-income payers have so far been in a more unfavourable position than the recipient because they paid for any amount of 25% of the tax in advance. And the recipient of the second income, because of all the small personal incomes, received a tax refund that was actually paid by someone else on his behalf. The situation isn't that simple. In particular, the recipient of the income which regularly submits a tax application and the payer of the second income has not paid the amount of tax to the State, although in his certificate the recipient argues otherwise. Therefore, the recipient of income which is no different from the payer of income broke no law will nevertheless be the one who will have to pay the unpaid tax to the State. Although the nature of the matter is about unresolved matters and relations between the payer of income and the state where the tax is not paid and it is not fair at all. And that's why I think the solution to this situation is possible next. So in order for the wolf to be fed up and the sheep as a whole might be the most favourable solution is that the second income tax is fully borne by the one who receives it. This is how it is arranged in many countries where free professions are far more developed and more numerous than in our country. The only thing in this case would have to wait a year for the state to come up with income tax money on another income. But this could also be overcome in some way by introducing a mandatory quarterly tax application and once again in a year as a whole, so eventually the state budget would be filled a little faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61216	Thank you very much. Time's up. Dear colleague. He picked it up? If Maria Lugaric says anything, then everything's fine. The replica of the respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61217	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to commend this reasoned debate of my colleague Holly. One of the key tax principles is just the principle of justice, I think it has very well argued why and how we should discuss it again. I would therefore like to commend that part of the reasons for the amendment of the Government of Croatia which says that that provision will be further discussed and further analyses will be carried out based on the data obtained from the new JOPPD form and will allow for a better image of the taxpayer's tax force, which will be designed to build a fairer tax system. So of these four basic principles, tax is one principle of righteousness. The decision that the Government applied in the bill clearly went in this direction and it is good that they do not give up and that as well as in accordance with and international solutions, try to find a solution, I say, which will be a) just and secondly, for the benefit of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61218	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject. We will vote on the final bill when the conditions are met. We are now going to decide on the points we have done in the Croatian Parliament. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 513. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business deadline, so they became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendment was also submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, so I would like to ask the representative of the honourable finance minister to be shown about the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61220	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear fellow MPs and counsellors. The HDZ Club has tabled an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, which is proposed to be amended in Article 2 amending Article 14. The Income Tax Act complements the provisions under which it would be prescribed that pensions from abroad are no longer taxed. The government does not accept the proposed amendment for the reason that taxation of foreign pensions was introduced on 1 March 2012 and that all citizens would equally participate in the settlement of public needs and everything according to their income strength. The basis of resident income tax is the total amount of income that the resident achieves both abroad and abroad, and this is the principle of common, world income, respecting the provisions of the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation and the legally prescribed possibility of tuning in abroad the tax paid. According to constitutional principles, equality and fairness and tax obligations must be established and distributed to all taxpayers in a way that is proportionate to the economic strength of taxpayers and that was the reason for us to introduce them into the system in March last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61221	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61222	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. The topic we've been talking about for a long time. We at the club think there's simply no basis for taxing pensions. People who are political or... the reason you were literally expelled from your hearth, who didn't go voluntarily to say so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the countries where they have made their pension, they pay taxes neatly if the pension is subject to taxation and is not such a problem for pensioners from European countries with whom Croatia has an orderly contract to avoid double taxation. The biggest problem, however, is pensioners from overseas countries, so North and South America, Australia, New Zealand, who were frankly not allowed to come to Croatia until the 1990s. They would return today with their knowledge, with their capital they would help Croatia. However, taxing pensions that are not taxed in countries where they have earned them is not the principle of justice. The principle of justice would have been if they had earned that pension in Croatia, and they had earned that pension elsewhere. And now, if we take action of the Law of residence that simply caused a consternation with the Croatian people. If we take what the register of voters has done to Croatian emigration, if we add that TV shows are lifted for Croatian citizens abroad and the last decision to abolish correspondence from Mostar and Sarajevo since 1.1.2014, I think this government is sending the clearest message to Croatian emigration. Let us not forget that one of the key bridges for the creation of the Croatian state was the unity and unity of the country's evicted Croatia. And if it hadn't been for the 1990s, the question was what would have happened to the Croatian state. Why are we stepping on it today? Why are we neglecting facts and why do we punish people who only had to because the Croats went after bread to feed themselves and their family? We're making their grandchildren and children not return to Croatia again. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61223	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in favor of the final bill. Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? We can get a score. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 42 votes against a law on amendments and amendments to the Income Tax Act as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a draft draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with the Draft of the Final Bill. And draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War with the Draft Final Bill. Namely, because of harmonising with the new social care system, the Ministry of Defence has joined the amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, and we also took advantage of the opportunity to do it again during the past year, this year, in which we saw the weak points in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to correct them. So here we now have six good ones back again affirmative provisions of laws that contribute to defenders and victims of the Homeland War. So I'll take your turn. This Law harmonizes the right to supply with a new social care system. The new Social Care Act also introduces a new form of social compensation that unites four social benefits so far. This includes supplies that are now in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and which is generated by about 6000 Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Instead of the provision that is deleted from the law, a new institute is introduced under the name of a guaranteed minimum fee, guaranteeing that each year, according to the means available, it will prescribe the amount to which any person with insufficient income and property will be entitled to meet the basic needs of life. I want to clarify this part, so far the provision for Croatian defenders and members of their families has been unique in the amount of 1097 kuna. With this new provision and the new social care system under quotes "the only losers" who can be in this whole story are Croatian single defenders who will receive around 800 kuna instead of the current 1097 kuna. However, the Ministry of Defence has provided an additional 9 million kuna and 100 thousand kuna for a one-time aid in 2014, which is again the Institute to help Croatian defenders and members of their families whom we have decided through one-off assistance, and we have seen that we can compensate for the part that this single lawyer, who would receive around 800 kuna in the new, would compensate for those who are the most vulnerable and socially among Croatian defenders and members of their families through a one-time aid that moves in amounts of 2 to 6 thousand kuna. For 2015, the projections provide us with 10 million kuna, as well as for 2016. Of course, the guaranteed minimum fee brings some benefits to Croatian defenders and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia such as those most threatened, to have co-financed directors, heating, electricity and gas. The second amendment is in the system of rights to free textbooks. This right from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence is transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is called the Educational Compensation with Administration in the offices of the State Administration and County, or the administrative body of the City of Zagreb. The criteria will be adopted after the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports adopts its law. Further strengthening of the obligation for employers in terms of the exercise of the right to priority in the employment of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been envisaged and infringement sanctions have been extended in the event of non-compliance with the employment advantage, i.e. a legal institute has been introduced to presummise the conclusion of a labour contract in the event of non-compliance with the employment advantage. We are witnessing that the little employment she has in state-owned enterprises or state-owned enterprises is being played. With last year's amendment and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, we have imposed very high penalties for individuals and those institutions that violate this law, and this time we have introduced this presummation of the conclusion of a contract in which when it is determined that there has been a violation of the law we will already conclude with that defender, or those categories of defence population that have priority in employment. Next. So far, the law has not prescribed all structural sites and duties and calls in the war units for Croatian defenders, so this was a problem for a number of Croatian defenders in the exercise of the right to a disability pension. This was particularly expressed in cases of significant pay discrimination between the personal rank and the institution of the Croatian defender and is now proposed to address this problem in a way that is most favourable to the Croatian defender. This change makes it more clear and precise that we regulate the exercise of the right to housing by providing for a fairer order of advantages for persons who exercise the right to housing, and provides for exceptions for certain categories of persons when determining the appropriate living area. Last, but very important, in order to provide comprehensive care to the defence and victims population and other persons, the need for the development of institutions that will allow access to different services in one place has been identified. To achieve those objectives, it is proposed to establish veterinary centres which are in the legal nature of an institution whose core activity would be to provide comprehensive care to the defence, or to the victims' population and other persons, thereby avoiding the ghettoisation of defenders. Veteran centres, it is the only remaining and unfulfilled promise from Plan 21, I am talking about point 13, about care for Croatian defenders, the only unfulfilled promise so far, and we will solve it next year. There are three amendments to this Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. It is also a provision that is in line with the new social care system, there we have about 3800 users of personal and family disability, as well as members of the family of wartime military disabled people who have died, and members of their family are unable to attract. It also introduces the institute for guaranteed minimum fees. The second thing is, there is also a change in the system of rights to free textbooks, which also passes from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The last amendment is also related to the need for the law to be in line with the constitutional provision on equality in enrolment with educational institutions, so the 2005 Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders, had the advantage of enrolment in educational institutions. It was then that the Constitutional Court for them abolished, and somehow these children were left with civilian disabilities. In this way, by abolishing their right, we have led to the equality of their right to advantage, we have led to the equality of all categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in enrolment with educational institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61227	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61228	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, you say you've fulfilled all the promises in Plan 21. I'd say you made a list of nice wishes without cover. So there's no housing, there's a reduction in funds, they don't end up at a rate that neither the buildings that are supposed to start building. Extending the right to provide housing to volunteers as well as changing the order now is also just a list of good wishes since the Ministry of Construction no longer has funds because they have been transferred to the Ministry of Defence. The same ratio that was last year, it's not enough to complete those objects that are. So nothing special is happening and nothing is being fulfilled according to the population of Croatian defenders as it should be. By removing this right, this special law, which is for the needs of Croatian defenders, is... not on the leg and is given to another ministry so as not to worry about those who are the poorest and the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61229	Thank you very much. Do the work authorities, the committees want to submit a report? Yeah. Josip Djakic, a respected representative for Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 14th session held on 29 November 2013, the Committee for War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the final proposal of the law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Act of 21 November 2013, with a proposal to comply with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. According to the proposer's representatives, these amendments and additions are harmonised by law with a new system of social welfare and a system of rights to free textbooks. The new Social Care Act introduces a new form of social compensation, guaranteed a minimum fee that combines four social benefits so far, and among them a supply now made by about 5600 defenders. The right to free textbooks will enter a system of rights under the name of educational compensation that will be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Other amendments and additions to the law stemmed from the problems identified in the application of the law. This provides for the obligation and time limit for the conclusion of a contract of working with Croatian defenders whose right to advantage from employment has been violated. A value point shall be established when establishing a pension where the place of establishment is not in that law, the specific conditions for the exercise of the law are laid down for persons who have injured themselves, left the unit or have not responded to mobilisation, and even more specifically the right to care for housing giving priority to the most difficult social cases. Veterinary centres are also established and their basic activities are prescribed. In the discussion, the committee members delivered the following opinions and comments and proposals. They welcomed the provision of housing championships for the most difficult social cases, the provision of the possibility of recognising the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the associated rights for persons who left the unit on their own free will, did not respond to mobilization or were unfairly fired if they were re-emerged in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and additions improve the status of defenders, because if the beneficiary becomes a guaranteed minimum fee, the right to other social benefits to which the defenders have not so far been entitled will also be effected. And for those defenders who will not exercise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, it is mostly about single defense attorneys, the Ministry of Defence has provided funds for one-time cash assistance. Through the establishment of veterinary centres, better activation of defenders into society is possible, and in some ways also the housing of single defenders. It is not appropriate for defenders who are incompetent to prescribe rights that will be exercised through other ministries because this and only the Ministry of Defence loses its role and purpose, so it is expressed and concerned about the slowly shutting down of the ministry itself. There is no necessary analysis which accurately and thoroughly speaks about the number of persons who will be entitled to guaranteed minimum fees and free textbooks, and the necessary funds. It also expressed the opinion that the criteria for exercising the right to a guaranteed minimum fee are much more difficult compared to the present one. The conditions for the establishment of veterinary centres are unclear, there is no assessment of the necessary resources or plans of their work. The proposed amendments and amendments have been complemented by the devastation of the existing law, and they lead slowly to the shut-down of the ministry itself. The transfer of jurisdiction over certain rights of defenders to other ministries derogates itself the Defence Act as a special law for that category of persons. After the debate was held, the committee decided by a majority vote, with 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61231	Thank you too, President of the Board. Are the other representatives of the working bodies? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. It is up to the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club and the respected representative Josip Benčić and Željko Mirkovic spend 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61232	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Before I begin to express the views of the SDP club, I would just like to ask Mr Djakic, this last one, I hope you don't think it was the board's conclusion. They were just isolated opinions. Well, I kind of got the impression that as a board, he figured it out. [[Intruder Djakic: So you did not listen.]] Yeah, well, maybe I got the wrong impression. Okay. Thank you very much. [[Leko: No discussion with a colleague./]] Excuse me, Mr. President. So from the Honorable Minister, we have therefore heard the objectives, or which questions should be addressed by these amendments and amendments to the law. It is a good thing that the amendments to the Social Care Act are accompanied by these, which means that some kind of implementation problem, i.e. the implementation of the law so far, has now been seen with these amendments, have been changed or improved. The most important changes concern normal implementation with the Social Care Act. These are changes related to guaranteed minimum compensation and primarily to these amendments and amendments to the law, so on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, as so far a number of other laws are introduced among other fiscal consolidation and fairer distribution of funds within the state. Because why is this really good? You said how many, meaning there are 6000 Croatian defenders who have the right to supply. Because according to the data why it's being introduced into the welfare system. Because according to the data obtained... a list of social benefits currently in the social benefits system, there are 81 rights of assistance or benefits which serve to meet similar needs or to protect against similar risks, and are granted separately or the condition for the achievement of a single fee has previously been granted the right to another compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The expenditure on social benefits just to remind you are the highest item in the total expenditure of the state budget. As we can see, there is a great dispersion of social benefits, and in this respect the envisaged establishment of a single user of social services and financial assistance. So this is certainly to welcome that the supply as such is being carried out, so it goes into the welfare system and only gets a different name. This is a guaranteed minimum fee. In particular, it is good to praise what, in practice, is particularly true in singles, so the amount is reduced by 1097 kuna, which is about to happen if I'm not mistaken for 800 kuna. But here we have one trigger, i.e. the right to an aid supplement which will therefore be linked to the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, given that so far has been linked to the right and to the supply. Also, it's the same positive thing, not to forget that the holder has the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, achieving the possibility of using other social rights that were not at this time related to the supply but are therefore linked to the guaranteed minimum fee. It's all actually regulated by article 32 on social care where it's said to be... guaranteed minimum compensation for singles is determined the amount of 100% basis, for single parent 100% basics, for adult household member 60% of the base and for child 40% of the basis of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means that more family members will have more guaranteed minimum compensation than would be supplies. I will not talk about all these objectives and demands of the minister, I will especially look back at the perceived problems of hiring a participant in the Homeland War. Because I'm a participant of the Homeland War I always have, and I'm a little bit of what I say is sensitive to this problem and I'm really sorry that we have to go further, so let's say scare the employers and keep warning them that priority in employment is given to the participants of the Homeland War. Unfortunately, I see here that he's been introduced and the idea of what I'm saying is beatings. So these are fines for the legal person from 10 to 300 thousand kuna and for the responsible person in the legal person from 5 to 15 thousand kuna. I say, unfortunately, and I'm just glad that it was successful to speed up this procedure in case a job irregularity is established within 15 days, and the inspection when it comes out, so let's say on the ground it sees this irregularity within 8 days cancels out with its solution such employment. I mean, that's good, but I say it one more time and I'm sorry to say let's say parole to remind people what all the participants of the Homeland War have done for this country. Furthermore, in the case of housing rights, there is, in addition to the above, the need for a clearer and more precise arrangement in the exercise of the right to housing in such a way as to introduce the order of persons exercising the right to housing and the intended exceptions for certain categories of persons when determining the appropriate residential area. The novelty here is excessive care for the most difficult socially endangered cases. So far, therefore again because of insufficiently clear criteria, it was the discretionary right of housing commissions. From now on, these criteria are clear and normal as far as the criteria are clear, there is a less possibility of manipulation. I am pleased to see that here is the planned establishment of veterinary centres, especially in that effort to provide comprehensive care to defenders, means the perilous population and other persons who therefore wish to avoid the ghettoisation of defenders. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61233	Thank you very much. Zeljko Mirkovic on behalf of the SDP club, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61234	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So let me say a few words, and I'll try not to say it again because some things overlap in these two laws, so here I'm going to try to be concise and avoid repeating. So, what's inevitable, I mean here must begin with this, that this law harmonizes the right to supply with a new social care system. This is precisely the key in this law to ensure that in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, 3800 users of personal and family disability as well as members of the family of wartime wartime disabled people who have died and members of their family are unable to attract and have the right to receive such compensation. Instead of supplies, we heard that an institute is being introduced under the name guaranteed minimum fee. Therefore, the right to supply is deleted and a number of current suppliers of supplies will exercise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, some to a greater amount, and present users of supplies that have more members of the common household, while the reduced amounts of the guaranteed minimum fees would be made by singles. But we've already heard in the previous presentation and in the Minister's presentation that this would be compensated through one-off fees. Current suppliers of supplies whose monthly income per household member exceeds the amount of the prescribed censorship will not exercise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee and current beneficiaries of supplies whose monthly income per household member is less than the prescribed censorship and will have a lower monthly guarantee of the minimum fee compared to the provision until one part of the current beneficiaries of the supply will have the right to a guaranteed minimum fee due to the inability to meet the property price. The right holders to a guaranteed minimum fee shall be open to the possibility of using other social rights, the right to benefits in the payment of heating and spent electricity and others. The right to an aid allowance will be linked to the right to a minimum compensation guaranteed as so far has been linked to the right to supply. In addition, the introduction of a guaranteed minimum fee represents the start of unification and a step towards the implementation of a single Centre for Monetary Compensation which would administratively and administratively take control of all fees now carried out by the authorities and social care centres. It also mentions that this law changes and changes the system of rights to free textbooks. This right from the Office of the Ministry of Defence will be integrated into the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports under the name of the Educational Compensation. It is also foreseen to deal with the regulation in the exercise of those rights by the competent minister of education in co-operation with the defence minister. Since the right to supply was deleted and the right to free textbooks was transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it was necessary to amend Article 71 of the Law to decide on the rights under this law in the first degree by the competent administrative authority in the regional or regional self-government unit, i.e. the competent administrative body of the city of Zagreb and, in the second degree, the ministry responsible for the defenders. The rights under this law for persons who do not have residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are in the first degree resolved by the competent administrative body of the city of Zagreb and in the second degree by the competent ministry. Article 45 provides that the competent administration offices in units of regional or regional self-government, i.e. the competent administrative body of the city of Zagreb, shall make decisions on the termination of payment of the right to assistance in the house in all administrative cases in which the right to assist in the house has been recognised in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. In the end, I would only mention what the Minister said in his opening statement, meaning that a change is being made, further changes are related to the harmonisation of the law with the constitutional provision on equality when entering educational institutions, since the right to take advantage of enrolment in educational institutions which is now not in accordance with the principles of equality, the rule of law. The principle of equality of all before the law, the principle of proportionality, the principle of equal availability of secondary and higher education and the principle of autonomy of the university should be abolished and this provision should be brought into line with the position of the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would point out that there is no concern that this is the first step towards some kind of crossing of the Ministry of Defence but we believe that this solution will be more quality and that in one place, more transparent rights will be determined and the benefits that belong to the people who have earned it are subject to conditions. So I say the SDP Club will accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61235	Thank you, too. On your presentation, there is a replica by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you've forgotten your colleague's integrity to the Homeland War and to the defenders. When you remove them from one ministry, i.e. You put them in others like you're giving them up, like you don't need them anymore, like they're a burden to you. On fairness and criteria, on criteria that will be able to obtain this social assistance or guaranteed minimum compensation, we will still discuss them and see when they come out. We'll see how much that number will even have the opportunity to use such a right, we'll see how it's actually made it easy for the Ministry of Defense to give something to other ministries. Instead of worrying and taking care of the defenders, we are dealing with these biggest and most difficult problems, let them go to the Ministry of Education, let them go to the Ministry of Social Affairs. They're probably a social category anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61237	Replica response, respected representative Željko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61238	Thank you very much. Well, here I could agree with Mr. Djakic, but I'm sure this is a better quality solution than it has ever been in the existing one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61239	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community of the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61240	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, before I say anything about the subject, I'm sure all of us here want Croatian defenders and members of their families to be just fine and even better in life. And it is precisely the area of protection of wartime military peoples, so the peacetime military civil society is governed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders, members of their families and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities. Before we begin to discuss this, I would like to point out, however, that these legal proposals are included in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament of 22 November this year. Although consultation with the interested public lasted until December 1st, it is likely that all those proposals, comments, suggestions that interested people would have under this proposal, or amendments and additions to this law, are primarily because the laws or amendments are not going to take place in an emergency procedure where they should. I note, however, that from the office of the attorney general and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities also came objections and disagreements with a large part of these amendments and additions. And now, before I move on to a particular subject, I must say what I said and the Assembly Committee on Veterans. So, I got a few letters from interested people. It's done specifically in the murdered members of the armed national protection squad. So, we're talking about amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, and that will also concern these people. Therefore, Article 2(1) provides that the murdered members of the armed national protection squads shall only have the status of Croatian defenders if they have spent 5 months in those provisions in a final manner with 24 December of the 91st year. It is a proposal that came out on the board and this opportunity to thank all committee members for supporting the killing and death of members of the armed national protection squads from the timing, so from 5 months to 24 December, if the provisions of the national protection have appeared until 24 July 91st. Therefore, this proposal has no financial implications for the state budget since the same beneficiaries of the rights acquired by 1 January 2005 but have been deleted from the single register of Croatian defenders. Therefore, due to historical facts, because of their dignity, their victims and their families, so today their children cannot specifically obtain confirmation that their fathers who have apparently died as members of the Croatian Army, defenders, armed national protection teams cannot obtain confirmation of the status of Croatian defenders. And I'm convinced that this ministry will, I'm sorry it didn't, but it'll work out very quickly in the changes. So much for that and now for a specific subject. So in 2012, 5 billion and 765 million and 659 thousand kuna were spent for the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defenders, which is about 51.5 million less than the total amount spent in 2011. And compared to 2010, that's less than 238 million kuna. So, on the basis of the reduction in funds, it seems to me that these changes and additions are also in the area of monetary rights. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War are adopted in the light of the reform of the social care system and the adoption of a new Social Care Act that will take effect on the first day of the following year. The law introduces a new form of social compensation that combines four social benefits so far including supplies. When there was talk of parts of the Law relating to supplies, I supported what my fellow and Mr. Minister said was not supposed to be so, given the fact that the criteria for exercising the right to guaranteed minimum compensation would be more severe and that one part of the defender would not succeed in achieving that right. And this time I have to say I'm sorry it didn't happen. Therefore, according to this legislative proposal, a guaranteed minimum fee is introduced and the height will be defined each year by the state according to the means available, which theoretically means that it may not be. I'm estimating inappropriate suspension of supplies. So this is the right for the most vulnerable part of Croatian defenders, I am talking about the social meaning, so for those who do not have the conditions for retirement, many of whom are working incompetent. And the abolition of this right, therefore, is simply not good or appropriate to change and how it is achieved by other criteria. So far, the process of determining the right to supply has taken care of property, social, so... But first of all, the defense status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The transfer of defence status to another ministry is currently delegating, namely, the defence attorney's contribution to the defence of sovereignty and, unfortunately, the status of the ministry itself is deregated. I won't talk about whether what counterpart Djakic said should be seen as the beginning of the shut-down, since one right goes to one ministry, the other to another, we'll talk about it at another time. In addition, no solution has been established temporarily, therefore, for a transitional period until the right to a guaranteed minimum fee has been established. With this proposal to amend the law is not... an analysis of neither the users nor the consequences of this resolution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, how many users will not be entitled to a minimum fee guaranteed. And we know that Croatia is a social state and that social justice falls within the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and that the special care of the state is devoted to the protection of persons with disabilities, Croatian defenders, wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the deceased defenders. We also believe that the proposer of these laws should clearly assess which number of users loses or significantly reduces recognised rights and which number of users will make a similar fee, so at a similar amount as it has been so far. Unfortunately, this way, or this kind of change, is simply unclear and it is very casually depicted. It is with Croatian defenders and military and civilian disabled war that this can lead to a sense of carelessness. Just knowing that no one's taking care of the circumstances that the defenders have brought into this situation at all that he's become, I'm going to say, that he's become a social case, so war and all the other things that carry the war and vices... I believe that the suppliers must remain in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because that just indicated a positive difference in the use of this social compensation. So which stems from exactly the defensive status which, with all the other criteria, has enabled that man, the defender, the wife or already a member of the family and to exercise that right of supply. And the single base could have run itself, so without changing jurisdiction which, I think, would be even more favourable to the end-user. The amount of the guaranteed fee is variable and 9800 users of the current supply will therefore have something to think about every year according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and 3800 according to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities. First of all, how much that fee will be and what other criteria it will be. Since the amendments proposed by one significant number of users of the right to supply may lead to an unfavourable situation. The criteria are very sharp and the rights to a guaranteed minimum fee one part of the users will definitely not achieve. And one part as we heard it, so we're talking about single defenders is going to get a cut in supply or a guaranteed minimum fee. With that it will be refunded through a one-time annual fee payment. However, this is not a legal solution that is not laid down in the law and this is conditionally stated by the well-willed state or state in which the state is located in an economic sense. So again, one question that has led to uncertainty. So everything indicates that these additions and amendments to the law do not go exactly for the benefit of security in terms of social status, defenders, members of their families. Because this is not really about uniting rights into a single social compensation where, in this case, all the beneficiaries of the supply would be translated into a new right of guaranteed minimum compensation but rather about abolishing acquired rights with the possibility of achieving new rights in the social care system under different criteria and under some new rules. And through this prism, we can look at the following elements in the amendments that speak about the rights to free textbooks for all those who do so under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and who, from the jurisdiction of one ministry, pass into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, etc. The application of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families has shown the need to amend and supplement the provisions which in practice have shown the greatest difficulties, which is exactly what colleagues from the SDP have said, so this is the problem of hiring Croatian defenders under the same conditions. In late December 2012. The Croatian Employment Service registered 30 251 unemployed Croatian defenders, which is 3295 people more than in 2011. We must simply be honest and say, and Croatian defenders are not competitive enough in today's labour market, primarily because of their age, the most of which is over 50 years old and will honestly be very difficult tomorrow and in perspective further become more competitive on the labour market. Unfortunately, this will be the diametric opposite, especially in these conditions of the economic crisis. We therefore think that we should continue to insist on encouraging self-employment through forms of cooperativeism, partnerships with the state and attempts to retrain the defences, thus opening up new opportunities for better competition on the current labour market and on trying to find a solution through self-employment. In addition to having to fight for competitiveness in the labour market and when they meet the conditions as we have heard from our colleagues and from the minister for a particular job, they often face the situation of giving priority to people who are not defenders. Except that it is an open violation of the legal provisions on the rights of Croatian defenders i.e. the right to take advantage of employment under equal conditions, it acts demotively in terms of further collapse of their psychosocial status marked by war experience, but also makes it difficult for them to engage in everyday life in society, especially when we know that this applies to state-owned public enterprises, i.e. governmental governments, because they are the only ones who can apply legal provisions and try to force them to comply with the law. If we can't force the state in the country, then I don't know where we are anymore. On the other hand, when we talk about the advantage of enrolment in educational institutions governed by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, we have a different situation and because of certain constitutional solutions that have been adopted we must now and resolve it and it is a purely formal matter. In the laws on the rights of Croatian defenders, we can say that as far as housing is concerned, it is certainly a order that will accept the argument of social sensitivity, or an argument that will always say that there are those who are more socially threatened than others. I think we're all going to support it, and for that order, we're all going to raise our hands, but of course under clear and precise criteria that won't allow anything, so I'm going to say the malversions that would lead to the results that no one here would want. However, the issue is given the economic situation, indeed, when and how we will address 15 000 Croatian defenders who are still awaiting their right to housing. Veteran centers. Honestly, I don't think it's a bad idea, that it's positive, but on the other hand, I'm not sure it'll contribute to degetoization. I just think that, that's what I said on the board, and that's my opinion that it's going to lead to the ghettoisation of the defenders because I don't know what the goal is actually to set up such centres, which is the way the defense center is going to be, but others are called veteran centres because I don't know what they're going to be called. I mean, first of all, I stress the fact that the funds are foreseen in the 2014 budget, but there's no telling what that's going to be, there's no appraisal. The operational programme of the Republic of Croatia in which a location for veteran centres has not yet been adopted, and then we simply go to a project without a plan, i.e. without an estimate of costs and when it is for 2014. The ministry was allocated 992 million and some change in kuna, and we know that in the 2013 budget there were initially a billion 138, i.e. a billion and 88 million rebalance, so this budget is 96 million less. Then I wonder, in addition to all of my regular business and the expenses that the Department of Defense has, how we're going to get money for the vets in the first place and where your centers are going to be. I just hope it won't be in Dujlov, so we'll go from Ilock to Dujlovo and there, although I'm basically welcoming that idea, but I think before, the whole project should have been designed even with the content and with all the other costs, I don't know any material evaluations, etc. Then try to enforce it into the law. I just hope that the money for the veteran centres may not come from these supplies, since assuming that a large number of people who have had so far, so we're actually talking about a guaranteed minimum fee, that a large number of people will not succeed in terms of rigorous criteria, etc. so that it is planned to be put into money that will ensure the settlement of costs for the vets' centres. So I think that it was all about having a public serious debate, and that the amendments had to be brought into line with the process of adopting the Law on Social Welfare, and at the same time because today we have what I said, we have a first reading with the public debate of the Social Welfare Act, and we are harmonising these amendments with a law that has not actually been passed. A little bit if nothing else sounds even absurd, so we're bringing in something we don't have yet. And I think it's simply the impression that the reason for the elimination of supply and unification is the compensation of a kind of rationalization in procedures, but which I'm not finally sure is in the interest of end-users of rights. So we are aware of the current situation in terms of the economy, we are aware that the savings must be but I do not think that this through these changes is the way that we will come to them, or which end-users will be satisfied and who will be in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61241	Thank you, too. Let's get the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61242	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Milas, I think I liked that at first you realized that we all wanted only well, or veterans, and better. Yes, and I wanted to look back on what you said was not an adequate public debate given the time. I don't know if you're thinking about this guaranteed part of the supply problem and a guaranteed minimum fee. It is clear and loud in the law, in this new law on social care, and it has been a little longer discussion about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61243	Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61244	Excuse me, thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not sure I got the line, but okay. It's important that we agree on a fundamental idea. So, I think we're all here for these people that we all care about together in some way to make them better. And for a public hearing, I speak explicitly. So the ministry's website says that the public debate is open until December 1st. I'm talking about amendments to the law, which means the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defendants or the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. And the law went in if I'm not wrong on the 22nd of November in the procedure. So, de facto, the public debate has been completed, and thus the implementation of any proposals, the suggestion can possibly come through you and me as parliamentary representatives through amendments that we will in no other way. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61245	Dear Representative Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61246	Dear President, dear colleague Milas first wanted to thank you for the correctness of the thesis, that is, when we seek common status for the deceased members of the National Protection. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, I can't say that I agree completely with you. Here's the first transfer of compensations that fellow Djakic was saying, the transfer of fees does not mean that the ministry is shut down. That means putting order into state finances. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The third thing and what you mentioned were employment, i.e. priority in the employment of Croatian defenders and measures in the law. Look, I'm going to tell you one example of life now, and I believe you know them well enough. During employment in one public institution, a public defender first arrived in the war on 24.8'95. A year. He spent his time at war in a military Bible princeship near Sibenik. Translated into the language of our war defender has never seen us. But he has an advantage in employment compared to a man or even a defense attorney, in my opinion, a lawyer who participated in the action when she took over in Sibenik who was a military company because she has no recognised status, because she's a civilian defender, and she's not a defense attorney like us. So I know it was defined by the Constitution when it started, when the war ended. But this is a story that can offer us all a chance to think a little bit about what rights are in the law of which we are entitled. Is that exactly the kind of defenders who came in on the 20th of '95? in the war in Croatia, they should have the same rights as the people who fought in '91, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth and even the fifth, in operations combined with the BiH Army. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61247	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vidovic, look at the status of the Croatian defender is defined in Article 2 of the law as it is. Maybe we could have defined it a long time ago, maybe we could have said that the defenders were the ones who were until January 15, '92. defend the country, and what else we could do in a legal system called the Legal Republic of Croatia have the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Police, the people who work there. So the police, or soldiers, and maybe everything would be different. But we have what we have. And if anyone has the status of counsel as long as they have it, we have to apply all the legal provisions to him as well as anyone else. What you told me about the Ministry, the shut-down, etc. Look, we just need to talk like that. And if one right by me supplies come out of the vault, so the Ministry of Defence, and the first and basic criterion that one can achieve the supply was because more so, otherwise the Croatian defender would still be. So, just get lost, it's just being derrogated. The whole of his procedure, all that, the circumstances that put him in a position, so this Homeland War he was involved in, so he probably lost his job or I don't know, and I don't even know, God maybe something worse is going away. And his confession, his struggle for the sovereignty of this country, so for all of us, it's just going to disappear somewhere, it's going to fade away, and that's why I think that supply, or those people aren't. Because again we have those who will have reduced that minimum, guaranteed fee and we will re-fund them if I understand correctly from the Ministry of the Croatian Defence. So again we separate each other, we help these, they're Croatian defenders but they don't have like these. Well, we're going to give them some of the Croatian defenders now, and those who get everything from the Ministry of Social Welfare and they're defenders, but they're, so we threw it away again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61249	Thank you very much. Dear representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Milas, in your discussion, you mentioned that a large number of our defenders are awaiting housing. However, somehow everything seems to me to be directed towards the minister, according to the government, to wait in such a way for housing care. I'd say the government and the minister can't do it alone, but it's actually in co-operation with local self-government. I think we should truly wish, in fact, the leaders of local self-government should pull it out. I'll tell you an example of the city of Dubrovnik where if the minister lets me say it's the best example of housing I think in Croatia. But believe me, for eight years and more there were objects, documents that didn't move. It was only when we started to do so that we were able to hand over 27 keys in a very short time. And now we're going to also co-operate the city and the ministry we're going to build the next two buildings for 80. The other day on the City Council, we made a decision on the DPU... one area where 64 houses of our defenders will be built. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also through the POS programme, we expect 50 defenders, or families to take care of each other. You also mentioned the center and you think it's a ghettoization. However, consider examples of suicide. Recently, Luka Bitunjac made a suicide, my dear friend. Believe that there was a centre, if there were epidemiological studies, if there were preventive measures according to these epidemiological studies, they might have had fewer such suicides. And in the end
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61251	Thank you very much. Time's up. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my dear colleague, when I said that 15 thousand Croatian defenders by yesterday's disabled now and counsel, so 20, 30% I think I just told the truth. I really don't believe that any of us can predict within what time period they will be settled inhabitably. So to transfer me to you, the economic crisis is such that I am aware that this is not working. And are the documents like this or what, local administration? Well, local self-government doesn't bloom roses either. So maybe Dubrovnik can, maybe it comes to them I don't know 150 cruisers during the summer so they leave a few kunas, a dollar or some other currency but I don't know how Novska or someone else will. I guess nobody wants to live there anymore, though. I don't think we're all in the sense of local self-government in the same situation. Furthermore, as far as vets' centres are concerned, I honestly don't think that the vets' center is exactly an institution or I don't know what it might be, maybe it will, but not in what you're saying, in preventing suicide. We have psychosocial centres all over the county. And I think that right through the psychosocial centers, I don't know, I'm not a psychologist or a psychiatrist, but through some developed systems, we need to take care of these people. So, some resociation and some self-resociation. But the veterinary center, I'm sorry to be honest when someone shows me the content of everything if I change my mind then I'll be honest with you. So far, I'm seeing him as it is said as an institution where we six defenders will come in and I don't know if we're going to talk about war or football, I don't know. But I'm not sure if someone on the side will come and sit with us and I don't know how to spend some time in some sort of content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61253	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61254	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you were talking to your colleague, Miles, about these veteran centers that should be like taking care of defenders and living care of them at the end. There's something like that already in Karlovac where there's 10-ac, 15 people taking care of it, where there's urgent care and care about them and they're safe there in their receipts, they've got a warm meal, they've got a place to sleep, they've got a bath, they've got a bath. Perhaps this should be done within the facilities that are for the pensioners, which are for, within them, put these. We are at a given moment minister and have suggested that there are also interested people who would build with the help of the ministry or with the guaranteed number of users to be delivered to them. But here we don't have a chance to see what the number of users would be. We don't have any material resources to support the construction of such veterinary centres and, if all is clear, transparently visible of course, we don't mind that they are built, that they are not ghettoized by defenders, but that they are in the composition of other structures of people, pensioners, together with them to share fate and also spaces in order to communicate and all others to spend those days as best and more beautiful as possible. As far as guaranteed minimum fees are concerned, I believe that this is a significant reduction in the number of users given the increased criteria that will be, and so far have been too many criteria, there has never been enough money to cover all of them. And I think, in this respect, this brief amendment and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Defence, we can only call them the care of my transition to another. And how much of this other guy's gonna take care of the defenders if he doesn't just take care of the minister coming out of the defense population, that's a big question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61255	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61256	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Djakić, I say I cannot talk about veteran centres through this way or through the prism of what was presented to me in these amendments to the law. I agree that these people can get as you said I don't know worry, warm food, accommodation etc. And it's even said on the council board that maybe there's going to be apartments for singles who may not be able to live on their own, but they're not for nursing homes, or retirement homes. But what happens to them in five years or seven or ten when they're even for homes where they still need certain and medical care and I don't know anything else? So if that's the case, so maybe I don't know that the funds we've provided for the veteran centres let's use them so let's just try, I don't know how much that's even possible, the minister will probably say better, let's find out as we're going to look at the order of housing towards social danger and sensitivity to try to find these people as well. So I don't know instead of money for the vets' centers let's solve the housing issue. Well, here in Sopnica, I don't even know how many apartments I've moved in with. Let's try to find with the city some modus, some kind of solution so we can move these people in there and find them some contents I don't even know what, but I think it might be a better solution than just putting them in some kind of space and saying it's a veterinary center and then who's going to come to them, how and when we see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61257	Thank you, too. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61258	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, a few colleagues and colleagues in these late hours in a relatively peaceful and somewhat dreary debate. We are discussing a very important topic and these are two legislative acts, a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War and a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, both with a final proposal and two laws under urgent procedure. The minister made a brief clear introduction completely and completely understandablely numbered and listed everything that is actually being changed and regulated by these new legal frameworks and new regulations. Under number 1 it is a supply, we have heard here that the supply becomes a so-called guaranteeed minimum fee which will be a good part of the obstacle and in the Ministry of Social Care, so the other ministry will decide and we have heard that the conditions for achieving this minimum fee are very rigorous and there is one fear or fear that this will actually reduce the number of users and, in words, it is almost entirely certain. But I know a lot of people who receive in Slavonski Brod supplies, and I don't have to say bad experiences, but their objections that they have to collect documentation and papers so that they have to submit those documents even though they are, with 1097 kuna, they have to walk from Vrpolje, Garcin and surrounding villages on Slavonski Brod to extract all possible certificates, hand it over until New Year's Eve, so until 1.1. and then wait for solutions by May next year. What and what they will live on from the new year to May, so four, five months while the commission that decides on the supply will solve their status, I wonder, and they ask even more questions. Thus, even now these conditions for the achievement of supply and rigorous and difficult to reach such people. The guaranteed minimum fee we heard the other day when Minister Opačić here said it was 2800, 2900 kuna and is relatively more favourable than the supply now amounting to 1097 kuna. With an absolute reduction of those who are single and whose supply is, or will be, guaranteed a minimum fee of 800 kuna with the possibility of reaching an aid allowance and these funds are secured in the budget for 2014, 9.1 million and 2015 and 2016 at 10 million kuna. If the Croatian defender therefore belongs with his minimum guaranteed minimum compensation to the Ministry of Social Care, which will pay the guaranteed minimum fee for him to feel like a defender, as a warrior, as someone who has fought and who has achieved it, he has obtained help from the Ministry of Social Care, he has become a social case. But that's what no one's pointing at here. But he still needs to belong to the Department of Defense. It may be a subjective feeling, but it's really going to happen. Here someone, the minister says there are 6 thousand people who have received supplies. From Mr. Djakic we've heard that there are 5600 of them, so now I don't know who's right, so it's about 4 hundred, the difference of 400 people, we'll see now, I don't know in further discussion Mr. Minister here in the final statement will actually say 3800 more of those who perform military and civilian disabled Homeland War 3,800, so there's also the minister and others in the debate. The right to free textbooks is also divided into the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports instead, and somehow it seems logical to me that this part actually goes out of it, if these are textbooks, then it is logical and too much to say that this part of the ministry would also go, and that is much higher than this guaranteed minimum fee. Now the right to take advantage of employment, see and hear, people come to us, that there are many, many irregularities in the same conditions, and the defence or defence status is not respected in employment or even in state-owned companies. That seems really demotive and disappointing. First of all, it's disappointing, it's a mild form of words of disappointment, 3250 are unemployed defenders. We see from public reports where there are also beautiful examples where people in the field of self-employment, the creation of cooperatives, have turned mainly in rural areas, and some have turned to agriculture, beekeeping, various things and find pleasure in it, so that I say, in some ways, and forget about all the things that hold them back, find pleasure in doing, doing things and saying something to help myself, but also to the community, to the Croatian state and society. That is exactly how such forms of self-employment should be encouraged with potential requalification or human qualification. It would be much better than if there were now 30 thousand 200 unemployed and waiting for work and with great protests, there were irregularities that should arise and as Mr. Minister said and severely punish. It's not easy, it's not easy to leave cases like that, so there'll be another time with another company, etc. That should really be sanctioned, perfectly legal and with high penalties. Housekeeping. How much misery and what is expressed in this item? I know people personally who, who have a house, who overwrite their house to their grandmother or do and then don't have a house. 20% of the disability comes from the war, and then they apply to the housing commission. Well, there are some, I can, I won't name it because it's not nice. There's 15,000 people waiting for housing. Fifteen thousand defenders. We heard a nice example from Dubrovnik. But lately, in the last two years, the intensity of building and assigning apartments as said by the keys, as someone said here, has been significantly slowed down and reduced. That's a fact. There is no more like a colleague, not Djakic, but Milas, neither in Novska, nor in Dubrovnik, given the good condition and well-filled cash register in local self-government, it is going better. But there and most of them are mostly with us in Slavonia it's not going well. Now, the development of defense facilities, vet centres. Well, you'd say that's a good idea, a good idea. I just don't get it, and it's not explained what it really means, what's the content of that vet center? What is he, what are they going to offer to the defenders? So it's not defined, it's not good, so I don't know what this center is designed for. In addition, I would not like to speak honestly or in full, which is not in the spirit of our language or language, the veterinary center is not in the spirit of our language, nor the center nor the veteran. Even though we know exactly what the word means. Yeah, one adjective and one noun is whether. There's a German senior center for retirement homes. So, I'm not a very happy team either, there are names in America, etc., veterinary centres, etc., veterans of the Vietnam War and the Korean War, etc. And in the end, none of these except I seem to be from the SDP Club told me if he would support these legal proposals or not. Since there is a constant reduction in therefore and financial amounts provided for by the laws on Croatian defenders, Milas said from 5 million and 900 to 5 and 600 this year. It's slowly slipping down. Given that it is likely, not likely, but rigorous rules for the exercise of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee and that part of them, part of our defenders, is passing with this guaranteed minimum compensation at the Ministry of Social Welfare, the HDSB Club will be abstention on these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61259	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas and Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Grubisic. I wanted to do this one more time just for a little while when you asked what the defender would do when he came to the social care office anywhere, what he would think of himself... What they'll think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's more important that there's what I said, that prefix defender, that he just disappears. That what has been in supply so far, so when he wanted to ask for supplies, he had to first have the status of Croatian defender. And it's not only that the status that was written on paper, but it really gave something in its life to achieve sovereignty, for this country, so it did something that others didn't. And let's say that it was basic, so with all those criteria that gave him the right to have a society, a state through the ministry resolutely in some way facilitates those life problems, a simple living daily life. And I think that with this amendment, so it's going to go to the institute of these guaranteed minimum fees, I don't think it's just going to be good and it's going to get lost. Not only with him, we must be aware of the society in which we live, the pace that tramples us and those who care about it, and those whom these circumstances may not be deliberately but will not always see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61261	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Milos, I'm just glad I offered you a little bit more to say and think about it and about your feelings and to tell the emotions and all the other mental part of the defenders when he comes to get his supplies at the welfare centers or I don't know where either. So here's thank you for supporting my thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61263	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61264	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, it is true that until now and in the past year, 5588 defenders have used supplies. That's the exact number that comes from statistics that's inexorable. Equally, 13600 Croatian disabled Homeland War is on the housing list. We used to count somewhere when we kept this pace for the next 45 years, they wouldn't have been taken care of. That's what it's about to say, dignity, identity, status of the Croatian defender won't lose any but dignity and pride that he was in the Homeland War, and now he's along with that citizen who's not able to do the same social status. Now that's what makes him different and what makes him offended and what makes him this way is in the inability to hurt and realize for his life in a difficult situation as a defender. Moreover, he is now classy with those of the social category.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61265	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61266	Mr Djakić, thank you very much for your information to the exact number of those who are receiving supplies, and about this other one you said about how they will feel, whether it will hit the Croatian defender that comes and belongs to the group of those who are socially endangered and in any other way receive compensation, we agree both you and I and Mr Milos together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61267	Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, I agree with most of what you said, I think you said the key things well when it comes to most of the things about the amendments to this law. I don't agree with you two. When you were talking about housing, you were talking about the possibility that someone had real estate, so they passed it on to their brother, sister, and then they got an apartment from the Department of Defense, and it's not really possible, and there were no cases like that. The clear law states who has the right to housing and under what conditions to have real estate is an absolute obstacle to the exercise of rights. If you have real estate, then you may have the right to improve housing conditions, so get credit from the Croatian Defence Ministry to improve housing conditions. And the other thing I disagree with you is when you said it was good for free textbooks to be transferred to the Ministry of Science. I don't think that's good either, I'm not for any of them to say the authority of the Croatian Defence Ministry to the Croatian defenders and of course to the families of Croatian defenders is being transferred to anyone else because by definition no one can serve Croatian defenders better than the state body which is precisely because of them and founded, so the Ministry of Defence. And it has often been in practice that other ministries, I do not want to offend anyone, have treated Croatian defenders bureaucratically, and these problems have then come again to resolve themselves in the Croatian Defence Ministry. And I don't see a colleague named Grubisic as a controversial veteran, he is fully in the spirit of Croatian language, and our parliamentary committee is called the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61269	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61270	Sir, I could translate if you want a defense center, a defense center, or the center of an apology, here's whatever you want, there's a way to translate it. A veteran is a French word, comes first of all I mean from France, not to be a linguist here now, I'm not that... Government deceased, but as far as I know, that's the French word. Second, as for textbooks or textbooks, you have a second vision, a second opinion. I think textbooks are really what belongs to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. All right, come on, here's what you're saying, on your side. And as for housing, this is where the minister talked about priorities, so those who are socially at risk, you have to admit that you yourself were the minister of the same portfolio, and you know that there were irregularities, manipulation, that's all I wanted to say was that there was excessive, but manipulative behavior in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61271	A colleague, Josip Djakic, also applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Well, here I will personally say that I will be against the law, especially as it is an emergency procedure, which lasted six days on the Internet, which was not respected by the remarks, which is also the Ombudsman for people with disabilities against this law, which is also against this law by the attorney general. I would welcome only one thing in it, and that is the introduction of a deadline within which a legal person must sign a contract to work with a person who has made it a priority. It is only good that those who do not respect the law and who do not hire Croatian defenders are more rigorously sanctioned. The Croatian defenders are 30,000 and something now at the Employment Office, there were 26 but now as the number grows, their unemployment is growing and they are certainly the category to be concerned about and in this way, by introducing more rigorous measures into the law. But what changes and additions to the law today are strictly related to the Law on Social Welfare. I am personally aware that you disagree with this, but here's the government's decision made, the Deputy Prime Minister is a person who has a special influence in lawmaking, and I believe that you have not easily left your concern and concern about this category of Croatian defenders who are in the most difficult position, in a position that they can't afford to have minimal property, that they have no car, that they don't have a tractor, and I don't know what the conditions are that they've been limiting so far to acquire those 1097 kuna. I believe it's not easy for you to leave your concerns to some other ministry, and I believe that what I said in the replicas cannot be translated into this law, my concern for others, because I believe it doesn't matter to you that you had to leave that category of the most heavily unsettled people to another ministry. They are still Croatian defenders, they are being held in the register of Croatian defenders, their status is a Croatian defender. The law that speaks of them is a lex specialis law, a law that was passed only for the category of Croatian defenders, for 506 or now 507,000. I don't know how many are already in the register as the register is increased. But he's for them and this way of making changes and supplementing the law. I would say that the Law on Croatian defenders is breaking up, devasting, taking away one category of people and taking care of them. That's what we can't agree on. In your mind, I know that it is also that we would like to help everyone, but here is this way of including and leaving concerns and concerns at the Ministry of Social Care as well as the Ministry of Education of Milan, one with Jovanovic, I believe that no important effects will be achieved. You will only have greater concern, given that you will complain that they have not achieved, have received less, have refused them, that bureaucracy is too heavy, that the conditions are too rigorous, that there is no opportunity for acquisitions, and it would be commendable to come from 1097 kuna to 2900. That would be ideal. I just believe that maybe one-third of those who were now on the list last year, and I believe so much, or only tens of them will do it. A question I can't answer either, and neither do you. Because if he did, he'd be right here in the bill. This significantly disrupts the ministry's attitude towards defenders, a parent ministry that has a duty, care and care for them that is defined through the law. You're easy to let go, maybe you're not easy, but here's a little public knowledge about it. Something was written, but they stopped that you were fighting and that you wanted it to stay there. However, here is Mrs. Milanka stronger than you. She's still the vice president and took care of your team. I do not know how many children will receive textbooks from the Ministry of Education Jovanovic from Croatian defenders will use these. What is deleted by the power of the Constitution, I would say that for children of Croatian defenders, there must be no special category, while there are special categories in the new law. The Roma children are enrolling. There's still some kids signing up. You have to read it. I also discussed it on a committee. They're not a special category. There should be no difference in children, but under the same conditions that they have conditions for enrolment. No one asked for anything special. One constitutional court abolished, the other we didn't complain about because we think we absolutely should, the minorities should be given certain rights, they need enrolment in schools, etc. But we are sorry that the children of Croatian defenders were on someone's feet or if they felt that they would be too highly educated perhaps from the population of Croatian defenders. Maybe that was the cause. But on this law, I want to say that we can't agree that one population of people who are here didn't find a way to do this after the Homeland War, they didn't find their place of work. Maybe they tried the employment measures, so they didn't make it. They may have failed, perhaps not found enough associates to run either a cooperative or their agricultural economy or not to find land. Yeah, one more thing is a spicy thing I'd like to say hello to. It has been used so far in committee discussions, that those who are socially in a difficult situation are previously taken care of and that, with the agreement of the commission with those frameworks, it is now only legally possible to regulate it slightly differently with the recommendations of associations, cities, municipalities, counties, all of those relevant factors that know what the family is in, and it can also be concluded by the staff of the ministry many times that it should be removed from the list and helped those who are certainly in the most socially difficult category. I'd say I think it's the height of the Homeland War and I'd say it's a bit of a bite. It is bitten by the separation of these two segments that do not seem to be a major item, but very important. Because if other segments will start to pull each ministry for themselves, we see that there is no more position in the construction of the building that we talked about and there are no insurance funds so that more the Ministry of Construction won't call a tender for any construction in the units of local self-government in which they secured land with belonging infrastructure. There is still only real desire, will, awareness of those who manage local self-government units when the defender submits a request and provides him with a construction site with a corresponding infrastructure without compensation. So he can go into construction, and the ministry can provide him with a possible loan. We talked about it, but 2 years behind us that we should do something with banks to make this housing care that I said 13,000 and 600 and there are some Croatian defenders on those lists with a smaller percentage of disability whose children are growing up and are no longer in that censorship that frees them from having a greater privilege to obtain credit and less return. So when children get older and leave their homes, they're no longer relieved. That's what we were also talking about. There's a lot to be done. And I want to say that there's how much I've been informed on the housing market in the Republic of Croatia there are I think 16 thousand housing units that are for sale. Well, I think that's a huge number, especially in Zagreb there are most of them, and that it's easy to solve only in the way of funding, given that HRVIs with 20% disability pay, have 20% off and pay 80 percent of the loans they would get for that apartment because their children are almost all grown up and are no longer able to have the privilege. We can't agree with the ministers with this bill and with these changes that are here, I'd say don't be offended or offended by this is really a law that says that you've transferred your concerns to other ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61273	Now we'll hear the replicas. First honorary colleague Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61274	You have incorrectly determined that children of the Roma national minority are entitled to direct enrolment. They don't. That's the first one. Direct enrolment is provided by extremely gifted children, so state champions in knowledge competitions, or children with developmental difficulties, who have been trained especially in the social care system with the opinion of professional rehabilitation. And secondly, you incorrectly said that someone was upset and that they were not allowed by HRVIs, their children, children who were killed to finish colleges. Who won't let them? They normally enroll and finish colleges and are successful students and later professionals and are successful people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61275	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61276	Well, I said the following is that the Constitutional Court has made a decision and we respect it. She's respected as soon as it's passed, but now she's out of the law. However, Roma children, I did not say that they are directly enrolled but entered under special conditions. And they have, in the new law look, they have this we've been talking about once and they've been put there. The same way could have been the children of the defender under equal conditions have priority for enrolment. So they have to meet certain conditions. I don't know who it was supposed to bother, but here's the Constitutional Court's decision and that's fine. I just wanted to say that it can't apply to one person and it doesn't apply to the other. And I'll prove it to you. I'll get you out of the law that passage in which it says so. And you'll see, I'll show you who complained about the children of Croatian defenders. If they hadn't bothered so you wouldn't have raised the castle first on it, and you were the first to ask them to delete that it's unconstitutional, that it's something special rights for children of Croatian defenders. And so the submission went to the Constitutional Court. Many times, however, we can say that we can handle and ask the Constitutional Court to make a decision. I think the children of Croatian defenders are the fact that we have provided them with scholarships that they have signed up and that a large number of them have finished and become college-educated with the highest titles. But it could have been a much larger number, and that's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61277	Second replica, respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you challenged my colleague Djakic because of the way you acted when you said that this ministry was holding on to that concern of mine to the other one. This attitude was expressed by you and Mr. Milas, who spoke in a very fine way, in fact, his own attitude, that is, the fact that he was thinking. Oh, I'll ask you when you're talking about it, my concern goes to another one, did you worry when in 2011, when 9 defenders were removed from the competitions held by the Croatian highways for the payment boxes when the defenders applied and then they took 9 defenders off the list? Was that a defense attorney's concern? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61279	The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61280	Thank you very much. Well, of course we did. I also reacted as an agent, and I also reacted as a defender in front of the Croatian Military Persons Association, and I strongly condemned the act. I personally called several times and talked to that leadership that did so. I personally said the harshest words I could ever say to them. But it didn't help, it didn't help because they didn't like what you saw didn't listen to anyone. They must have kept their policies, they didn't follow the laws, they did a lot of things against the law. Here, I can say it openly and I'm not ashamed of it. As far as housing is concerned, we took care of Dubrovnik and all other destinations as much as we could and how much money there was. In cooperation with associations arising from the Homeland War, I am sure that this is the best way to find a solution and satisfaction for this population of Croatian defenders who need it. I hope that you and the minister and you, when you're working together, share the real views of what's on the ground, and that's best to know how the defenders work, which they need the most. And even if we had made a common position for these amendments and amendments to the law, we might not be against it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61281	We still have to hear the individual debate of colleagues Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here I would say a few words about the proposal to amend the law on the rights of Croatian defenders although a good part of what I meant to say were said by colleagues who had spoken before from the club, as well as others, and I think it is not good that this law is passed by emergency procedure. There is no reason to adopt an emergency procedure, because this amendment is essentially due to amendments to the Social Welfare Act, and the Social Care Act goes into two readings, so the Law on the Rights of Croatian Advocates ić could also be adopted in two readings. So one would say not only a formal remark. Secondly, I think the lack of the need for analysis in this bill, at least when it comes to supplies and we don't see what would be very important to all of us MPs, to see how many Croatian defenders will lose this right, how much Croatian defenders will get less money than they have now, how much more money they will get, etc. So, on the basis of which we could pass both some sort of final judgment on this law. I will not support this law because I do not think it is a good thing that one of the important instruments in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, it is the Institute of Supply is practically abolishing, it is no longer. From 1.1. it is likely to be guaranteed minimum compensation for Croatian defenders. The vast majority of Croatian defenders in this way will be put in an unfavourable position. If we know that there are about 5 and a half thousand Croatian defenders who used supplies, most of them were single. It is very simple to and can be checked, which they had under this Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders supply 1097 kuna. Tomorrow, when they walk under the Social Care Act and guaranteed minimum compensation, they will have 800 kuna. So that church girl who got those 1097 kunas, we're reducing the practical amendment of this law by 300 kuna. It is sorry and it is little for them and the message we send to Croatian defenders is not good. It particularly bothers me when it is said in the explanation that it is abolished because of the introduction of order, because of the separation of such from the state budget, that there is control in one place, etc. And so far, and you, Mr. Minister, know very well, with the supplies of Croatian defenders, there was no problem. You know very well that there were very well-developed criteria for someone to ever achieve this of the Croatian defenders supply. The supply can be achieved by someone who is not able to work and has to pass the art of first and second degree and get a supply solution and someone who is over 50 years old but also has to pass the art. So there was a well-developed system. In addition, this number of 5 500 people who have exercised the right to the best speaks of the fact that there has been no such manipulation. If you take that 30 thousand Croatian defenders are at the employment office only 5 thousand Croatian defenders have used supplies or if you compare it to the number of 500 thousand Croatian defenders in the register, a little more than 500 thousand, then this is a negligible amount, and even that amount of 73 million kuna that paid for the supplies in the state budget last year is not the amount that will make the government here in the Parliament's head hurt. And it is not good for the Minister to pass it on to the Ministry of Social Care, the ministry, the first question is how much has been prepared for the job at all when the Social Care Act comes into effect, will stop all supply solutions and all those who wish to obtain the right to a minimum this month's fee must restart the procedure, how long it will take. And if you know how particularly sensitive the population of Croatian defenders and bureaucratic procedures and possible injustices that will result from such cases and what will happen then, no one will go to the Ministry of Social Care, everyone will come to you at the door, is it wise to transfer it to another ministry? I think it's a very bad move, that it's not as good as not even transferring the right to free textbooks at the Ministry of Science. Then why is there a Croatian Defence Department in the first place? So don't be surprised if someone asks, so what is the purpose and purpose of the Croatian Defence Ministry, the supply will be handled by the Ministry of Social Care, free textbooks will be solved by the Ministry of Science, but it is slowly spoken and announced by a single body of art. So this job of artificial disability will be transferred to another ministry, if the shares are not transferred to the Croatian defenders' fund and the fund will be shut down, the fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders will be shut down, what will then happen will really happen to no one who cares about Croatian defenders at heart. Indeed, the Croatian Defence Ministry will be shut down. It is of no interest to anyone, I agree with my colleague Štimac when you said that not everything depends on the Ministry of Croatian Defence, nor is the Ministry of Croatian Defence the only one who should take care of Croatian defenders. Of course it's the concern of the entire society and the units of local self-government and other ministries and counties and I don't know which not all bodies. But the parent body for care of Croatian defenders is the Croatian Defence Ministry. And all the eyes of Croatian defenders are against the Ministry of Croatian Defence. And when the wrongdoers are wronged against Croatian defenders, they often complain not to the wrongdoer but to intervene or complain to the Croatian Ministry of Defence. So, ministers are not well and it is not a good message to move jobs from the Croatian Ministry of Defence to other ministries. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not good for Croatian defenders to virtually reduce their rights in this way. If there is no money in the state budget, then this should be applied to everything and not only to Croatian defenders, because according to the provisions of this law and the provisions of the Social Care Act, Croatian defenders will in some way suffer the most. And so my colleague said something about these vet centers, there's nothing against the vets' centers. Indeed, but then when it is clear by law, what are veteran centres, which is their role, what jobs will veteran centres do. And what's also important in these conditions is how we finance the vets' centres. So, when I know that, then I'll be at the vets' centers even though I don't mind in principle like this. I'm not against home care and expansion, but let's not lead people astray and give them false hope. When we know that we are not as a state and society, especially in these difficult economic conditions when the state budget is reduced, when the deficit is growing and higher, when less money is being allocated to Croatian defenders than before that we will be able to resolve it in due course. We won't be able to solve it, so let's not put it into the law. Why? We only give people false hope and increase the pressure of defenders towards the institutions of the system. Not to go any further, so from what I've said, I won't support this law, or the proposal to amend the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. Because I don't think he's wearing anything new at this point, especially nothing good to the Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61283	Thank you, too. We have exhausted the list of applicants for this debate, so the words are received by Defence Minister Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I will say that I am very, very pleasantly surprised by the level of debate that was here tonight, whether you were very tired or have expressed your dissatisfaction but I understand it.../The speaker does not understand./... The pleasure, we share the same concern for Croatian defenders and I am glad that in fact we do not differ in many things. But I want to clarify here and for the sake of the public and for the other representatives here. So your concern for the social situation for Croatian defenders is fully justified, and alone. So, as Mr Djakic said, I strongly opposed the transfer of supplies from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, when I received firm convictions and we made simulations and this will show up during this year, there is therefore no reason that some things can't change if they show up badly. However, this is a question of more, indeed colleagues and vice president Opačić to explain, so in the social care system in the Republic of Croatia there were indeed people everywhere, at least Croatian defenders are guilty. And as Mr. Ivić said, that we had very strong, rigid criteria and these 5600 defenders Mr. Grubisic said whether 6 thousand or 5600 but now, in the course of the year, a lot of people are out of work and among them Croatian defenders who will slowly blend into this part of ours. We are, therefore, once again, losers and as Mr. Ivić said most of them are singles and they are conditionally said losers in this story because their supply or guaranteed minimum fee with 1100, 1097 kuna falls to some 800 kuna and means about 300 kuna are at a loss. But I said, and here I am, and I'm going to do it again so it doesn't go unexplained. We have this year, just because we did simulations we saw that for all these people who would be denied for this amount we have one-time cash aid of 2 to 6 thousand kuna. And I have to tell you here, Mr. Djakic here, I was very happy because I spoke to Mrs. Opacic more than once about our multi-member families, this is the same for representatives who didn't know, so there's always been a number of family members in the second welfare system, so that's what gets social assistance. And the Croatian defender was he single or was married, had ten children getting 1097 kuna. Now it's drastically changing in favour of multiple families and these singles are going to be compensated through this part of what we've said to one-time cash aids. For the following year 10 million kuna is secured and for 2016 additional, in the projection of another 10 million kuna. My friend, comrade Zvonko, said about the murdered, dead members of the People's Protection. Yeah, and I agree that we need to work this out and help me figure it out. So those who, conditionally speaking, are making a problem for us is the Ministry of Defense. But to prevent anyone from realizing it is Minister Kotromanovic, he has been obstructing and working against it for the past two years. It should, perhaps, be reminded or should not be reminded that these people died in 1991 and that this has not been settled until today. So here we expect that I will have your support reportedly is about a hundred members of the armed members of the People's Protection who died and their families still have no status resolved. I'm the first one to get rid of it. There were a lot of questions about the establishment of a veteran center. That's exactly why we passed this law because in order to establish something, we have to have it in the law. That question that you justifiably asked about the ghettoisation of Croatian defenders, which is why there is the addition of Croatian defenders and other persons in the law. So it's our instinct that not only the defenders are ghettoized in these veteran centres, and we've just put through this legal basis that there will be other people. Someone said the defenders would just talk about the war, when someone ran across the street, he didn't, he shot, he didn't shoot, but in those veteran centers other people would be taken care of. We've done, we've been asked here how much we've worked on it, we've done a preliminary survey, and only on this preliminary survey have we received 7,500 requests for accommodation in veteran centres, which would mean that it's almost 400 people in each county. And when we talk about accommodation, it would certainly not be ghettoized in this way, so be assured, so these are the centres where all the social, health care and any other care for Croatian defenders will be represented. We're a small country, we've looked at even some preliminary locations where we could be veteran centers, we're a small country, they're really hospitals, and of course in those centers according to standards, doctors and medical staff are constantly stationed, and there's no city in our house that's not thank God that his hospital is 30 km, half an hour, I think it's maximum until the first hospital. It is also here not to be ghettoized by the defenders themselves, it is important to mention that we have a large number of parents of our dead Croatian defenders who are simply now people of older age and for them almost perfect accommodation in such homes, means a double room, accommodation, neatly, washed, clean, food, everything, remains only for them to walk and to spend their lives in peace. He says we don't have the funds. It is this amendment and the addition of the law that we have ensured that we will do so through a public-private partnership, and every ministry, as you know this year, has established its special departments for co-operation with the European Union and the withdrawal of funds from the European Union. We could also get that only by amending the law. You asked a question about employment, and this was justified what you said, so here and last year, by amending the law for the first time, we introduced those fines, but here in some cases, we have positive examples, but today it has proved to be you in state-owned companies and in most state-owned enterprises, and they are still stronger than the state, so we have now introduced this institute where when we see fraud, we will hire the Croatian defender and then let them complain. Entries in schools should also be reminded that this constitutional provision, now who initiated it or not, was in 2006 in which children of Croatian defenders had the advantage under the same conditions, so it was abolished, and then we are now to correct that injustice in some way made a "other injustice" so we have also abolished this advantage for these children of civilian people and now here is what Maria said, I don't know that Roma children have the advantage, that there are certain categories but here we have done it in this part of ours. And lastly, I might say what you're asking is that you're losing the point of the Ministry of Defense, it's such a bit of a difficult definition, but I understand that in the context of the remarks, simply as an opposition, it's such a strong argument for you to say something. However, you often use the phrase, we all use that phrase, not only is the Ministry of Defence responsible for defenders, but let it be other ministries and other institutions in this country. So that's how we do it now, so the transfer of textbooks to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is very, very logical. This supply thing I've explained to you and I agree with what Tomo said, yes, of course, everyone will have problems with any institution, but it's been over the past 20 years, whenever they have some problems at any time and anyone they come to the Defense Department with. It will probably continue and thank God let them come, we will solve all the problems. We believe that this solution in the context of social compensation reform is a good solution, if it turns out bad all the laws are variable and so are we, but we are convinced that it will be good, that it will be okay and that in fact the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth will actually have the biggest problem because we have calculated in the Ministry of Defence that this is a better option for us. As for the very expression of social compensation for defenders, but it's guaranteed minimum fee, we're not going to deal with the form, it's more important content and the only thing I'm afraid of and it's justified, it's going to take a while with this change but that's usually when a new calendar year begins that it's going to be a problem. So I would remind you that the same similar problem but it's indecisive, we have scholarships with children of Croatian defenders because we can't share scholarships before we know what dividends are for that year, and then thank God it's already at the end of spring and the kids are finishing school, school year is at the end, when only then the scholarships for that year that's been through but here it is. Thank you very much again for the very, very correct debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61285	I thank the minister. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61286	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, really not doubting what you said at first, I have to doubt what you're told. So you talked about simulations, but no analysis of what is obtained or lost by creating a guaranteed minimum fee is offered anywhere, i.e. by abolishing supplies. We do not, in the end, have, say, that this law or amendments and additions are working to comply with the Social Welfare Act, so we do not have that law yet. The law passed with the public debate the first reading, we wait for the second, and we have already solved our part in a certain way. So that's what's bothering me about all this. That's the problem where we literally have no idea, I guarantee it, that no one at this point has any idea how many people are going to lose their right to a guaranteed minimum fee, how much they're going to get right, what right. So we just weren't able to get that assessment, that simulation we weren't able to do. And that's the problem with getting into laws that we haven't finished, adapting to others. I'm not going to say we don't care about people, but we just let one story go one way that you say everything has changed. I agree with that. So the law is passed. If it doesn't work, we'll change it. But maybe we should have gotten together through some public debate at the Ministry of Social Welfare that I'm really not going to tell us to do a calculation in a tiny kuna, but let's see who these are, or what the assessment is, who gets what, or who loses what. I'm talking about people, I'm not talking about the state whether it's one or another ministry, it's just that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61287	Second replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the ministers can't agree in this part when you say that now you're going to have the part that the defenders, who have so far had the supply, who are single, but will get 300 kuna less under the Social Care Act through that guaranteed fee, that it will compensate you for having secured for the next year 5 million kuna, so I don't know for 2016 you mentioned the amount. One is a one-time cash aid, and the other is a legal right. And here, the law is being reduced, and one-time cash aid is being promised. This money aid can be one time and it doesn't have to be. And it will all depend on what an economic situation will be, and something guaranteed under the law will certainly be paid off and money will be found to truly be paid. And secondly, I can't agree with every honour to other ministries, but also as a minister I've x times made sure that the relationship can never be the same as the Ministry of Croatian Defence's relationship with the defenders, ever. And very often, defenders in contact with other authorities of the state administration came across a relationship without feeling and with due respect for the Croatian defender. Unfortunately, this is the case, and the Minister of Science will not take better care of the children of Croatian defenders, as the Minister of Social Care will not take better care of Croatian defenders who have the right to guaranteed monthly assistance than the Croatian Defence Minister does. And that's why these jobs should have and had to stay in the Ministry of Croatian Defence, and that's why these examples lose what I said and the meaning of the Croatian Defence Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61289	Minister Fred Matic corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61290	Thank you very much. So, once again, it's a matter of accurate information to the public. Every Croatian defender who gets the right to a guaranteed minimum fee for the amount he would receive by last year will receive the amount of one-time cash aid by this year and will not be denied for a single June. About the criteria for someone to achieve something after 20 years and over 20 years of war, the social situation in each other, five. We are all equal citizens of this country, and the Ministry of Defence is not as you said with 5 million kunas, but for 2014 we have secured 9 million and 100 thousand kunas, 2015. 10, 2016 Ten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61291	And the third line is the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So today Croatian defenders who are in a difficult situation with a certain censorship can receive one-time cash aid from the Croatian Defence Foundation. The question is whether this foundation purpose will stop if it gets this one-time help from the ministry or maybe you thought it was one and the same, so it will be a trust fund that will cancel the possibility of obtaining support through the ministry because one and the other is actually part of the ministry and decisions are made on the administrative councils of the ministry as well as in those employees working on similar cases. I think, however, that I continue to claim that there is what you may have failed to say about the lack of understanding of everyone else in the population of Croatian defenders, and therefore it is best for the defenders to be cared for by those who shared their fate with them. It is the best and most concrete concern and concern although many times with many demands make it difficult for both you and your employees but you understand best, you know best, you know best what you can do. These others waved their hands, ah, tomorrow, I'll be the day after tomorrow, so never. So I believe that this is not a waste of what we tell you, and I believe that you personally realize that there is a possibility when there are censors that one purpose, such as a trust fund, is to help Croatian defenders and one-time cash payments, analyzes another option. And the second option that you have announced to pay for the heating, the electricity and everything else through such a one-time aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61293	Minister Matic corresponds to this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61294	Thank you very much for this observation. However, you know for yourself that the foundation and the one-time assistance are two concepts in which we work very closely, so the users of the foundation do not receive one-time assistance and vice versa, so as I said, we will make up for every single one of the Croatian defenders, and this refers to a single person. Because those who have families, they will actually profit from this new law on guaranteed minimum compensation. And for the end of the sentence once again, if it happens at this time, it shows that this system of social care towards Croatian defenders was wrong, bad and flawed be assured that I will be busy returning to the old state or doing everything possible to improve the situation for Croatian defenders. But we're through all the simulations that we've been doing, which Zvonko says we haven't, okay, it's not public, but we can also show on the next Veterans' Board that actually a bunch of defenders who've used so far the supplies will actually go better. The problem with who's going to do this remains with the Ministry of Social Affairs. We will certainly protect the defenders from the position of the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61295	I thank Minister Matic, thank all those who participated in the debate. I'm closing the debate. And for today, we'll stop working. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9.30. First we will vote on the budget-related laws, then we will vote on the amendments tabled for the budget, and then we will adopt the budget. Good night. Session adjourned at 21.20 p.m. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 537. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Minister Matic to plead on the proposed amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 5 Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government does not accept that such a definition would directly derivate Article 48. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families according to which parents of the late Croatian defenders so-called Another inheritance order would not have the right to buy apartments but would deny those who have the right to buy apartments, which are parents so-called. First order of business. So we don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61298	President of the Committee on Legislatives, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61299	The amendment is withdrawing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61300	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 2 to Article 33 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61301	In Article 33(2), the word "defender" is replaced by the word "guarantee authority" and we nomotechnically supplement the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61302	What? Do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61303	We accept, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61304	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3 to Article 40
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61305	In Article 40 behind the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61306	Don't, don't read the amendment. Just tell me if you accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61307	Yeah, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-03-0.u61308	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. I'm giving the vote, now we're done with the amendments. I'm going to pass the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. With 78 votes in favour and 30 against, we've passed this bill.
