ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29026	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. We begin with - Proposal for a law on agricultural land, first reading, PZ No. 251 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the text of the bill will be discussed by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29027	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law on agricultural land. I will start with the basic postulate that agricultural land is good for the Republic of Croatia and enjoys its special protection. According to the 2005 statistics, the total area of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is 2 million 695 thousand and 37 hectares. Of which the state owns 33% or 890 thousand and 214 hectares while privately owned by millions of 804 thousand 823 hectares or 67%. A little bit of reason to pass this law. The application of the applicable Agricultural Land Act has shown that there are many obstacles that slow the agricultural land available to the country that has been in the form of sales, leases and long-term leases. Agricultural land owned by the State was based on the Agricultural Land Availability Programme owned by the state that brought units of local self-government to its own areas, with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture. Out of the 555 units of local self-government 75 municipalities and cities in their territories do not have state-owned agricultural land, 74 units of local self-government did not bring in the Available Programme even though they were required under existing law, and 406 units of local self-government did so with these programmes to which they were agreed by the Ministry of Agriculture included 552 thousand and 71 hectares. So of the total 890,000 hectares of state land in operation in some form of availability in these 10 years, 262 thousand hectares were placed. This is why we went with the new law, which is, above all, the shortcomings of the existing law and the model of availability, the extreme ineffectiveness and intransparency of the agricultural land supply process, a large number as we have seen from these data units of local self-government did not bring a land supply programme at all. Many who have also adopted the programme and have received consent to this programme did not have and hold a tender, and there have been a number of cases among those who have called and conducted tenders that there have been intentional and unintentional irregularities and violations of the law. Furthermore, the particular problem is the non-use of agricultural land for agricultural production, resulting in an increase in unprocessed agricultural land. Unfortunately, we also had a constant trend in deforestation of agricultural areas, less and less parcels and more difficult or difficult to manage agricultural land. The proposed Law on Agricultural Land abolishes the programmes available to agricultural land owned by the state, which have made units of local self-government due to the ineffectiveness of such a basis for the availability of agricultural land owned by the state instead of units of local self-government which have opened a tender for lease and sale and have decided on the selection of the most favourable bidder in the contest, and the process lasted from 6 months to 5 years in some cases. The availability of agricultural land is assumed by the Agricultural Land Agency, which will speed up the rounding processes, as well as the availability processes, the overall availability of agricultural land. In accordance with the above, the current forms of availability that have been sold, long-term lease of agricultural land and long-term lease for fish stocks are abolished, and a basic form of availability is prescribed for agricultural land owned by the State as a lease and a lease for fishers to be given to natural and legal persons through a public call for 50 years. It is also prescribed to temporarily make available to state agricultural land and to grant state-owned agricultural land for use without a public call. Since agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection, owners of land ownership rights cannot be foreign, legal and natural persons unless international contracts and special regulations are defined differently. The law also states that legal and natural persons must maintain land capable of agricultural production and process it in accordance with agritechnical measures, without reducing its value and penalties for doing so are also prescribed. The change in the purpose of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes is also regulated by this law, one-off fees are paid whose height is determined differently, depending on whether agricultural land is located within the limits of the construction area on the day of entry into force of this law and whether it relates to particularly valuable or valuable farm land. There are cases where no land re-use is paid for non-agricultural purposes, and the funds incurred for re-use are 70:30, 70% of the state budget, 30% of the budget of the units of local self-government, or the City of Zagreb, in whose area the agricultural land is located. The law further lays down the order of the lease and lease law on fish ponds and the right of the championship at the invitation have natural or legal persons who make up the maximum number of points of 100 possible prescribed points of which the economic programme of use to agricultural land owned by the State as an integral part of the offer is weighted by a maximum of 60 points. 20 points are worn by the previous owner who is in peaceful possession based on a valid legal tender and 20% is the proportional amount of the offered rent. It is also prescribed that the components of the economic programme are precisely defined and therefore the evaluation of the economic programme itself is carried out, and the way in which the economic programme is evaluated in terms of determining the value of the weight of individual components is governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's a schedule, I'm sorry. The funds generated by the lease, the lease for the ponds, the sale or giving for use without a public call are a ratio of 50:50%. 50% of the resources of the state budget, 50% of the budget of the units of local self-government in which agricultural land is located. The law also lays down what is considered common pastures granted by the Agricultural Land Agency for 20 years to pasture communities established in the area of local self-government units where pastures are located. We provided for the possibility and temporary availability of agricultural land owned by the State on the basis of a contract concluded by the Agency within five years for agricultural land owned by a state for which no lease and lease agreements have been concluded for fishermen. Agricultural land owned by a State may be exceptionally sold by a direct contract at a market price established by the Agency in the case of a prescribed law with the aim and purpose of rounding agricultural land. And exceptional agricultural land owned by the state can, with the agreement of the ministry, be given to use without a public call to scientific and teaching institutions in the area of agriculture, penitentiary and institutions whose founder of the Republic of Croatia is 25 years old without compensation of up to 10 ha and with prescribed fees of 10 to 100 ha in respect of 50% of the rent, if that is over 100 ha in compensation of 100% of the rent in the area in which agricultural land is located. Agricultural land owned by the State may be replaced by agricultural land owned by natural and legal persons of approximately the same value and for the purpose of rounding agricultural land. A decision to replace agricultural land shall be taken by the Agricultural Land Agency. The implementation of this law is expected to speed up the availability of state agricultural land, which is a top priority that needs to be pursued by the implementation of this law. Then increase the use of agricultural areas. Furthermore, by putting into place the unused agricultural land so far, the establishment of a agricultural holding core that will have a long-term perspective of agricultural production in terms of land resources. Furthermore, this law will regulate and begin the process of rounding up agricultural holdings and agricultural land. We're introducing greater discipline in the reuse of agricultural land. And it is for the first time an information system that will improve the management of agricultural land. The proposed law regulates the maintenance and protection of agricultural land, the use of agricultural land according to the purpose of agricultural land and bonuses, the fees for use, the distribution of agricultural land and the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the transport of agricultural land owned by natural and legal persons, the land fund of the Agricultural Land Agency, administrative and inspection supervision and criminal provisions. For the implementation of this Act, the funds are secured in the national budget for the period 2013, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29028	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one is Djurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29029	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, today we have before us the Law that you have brought and I must say that in many provisions, and he, too, is a total of peasants and family farms, drags in live mud. I'll just look back in my replica at one of your sentences, which is that this law is transparent. This has nothing to do with transparency. Why do you think the past law was non-transparent when the agricultural land distribution program was passed by the local administration? Then, the ministry gave its opinion, and the DORH passed a clause of legal validity. Today we have an agency that has two members of the commission plus one member of the local administration. Where's the transparency in that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29030	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29031	Dear Parliamentarians. The Agricultural Land Agency was established in 2009 and under the existing law, the agency was to operate, do its job for all those units of local self-government that did not bring the programme or which did not have the programme in place. Unfortunately, that provision of the law was not consumed, and the agency did not live as such. However, she had a director, a deputy director, spent significant financial resources but didn't do her job. In this way, this law takes responsibility from the Agency for Agricultural Land and will act by law transparently, efficiently, by a shorter procedure and with much better results. In the 10 years of 890000 ha you only put 262000 ha into office on any basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29032	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29033	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's to this transparency or non-transparentity really is as strange as Mrs. twilight said that you would say that this law is so far non-transparent, and this new one will be transparent. It is non-transparent when hundreds of councilors throughout Croatia decide on land in their premises when it is available to local media when it is published everywhere, when the ministry gives consent, when the State's Attorney's office at the end confirms it. And it will be transparent when three or how many people decide on land throughout Croatia, they won't even know where it is. I think it's totally wrong and it's a demagogue formula that can't possibly be true. And as for your allegations of failure and violation of the law, there are, of course, legal provisions on how to sanction those who break the laws. Just as there are provisions and sanctions for those local self-governments that did not bring a programme of availability to state agricultural land. I think you're discriminating local self-government, and at the very least you're insulting it with a bill like this. This isn't democratic, this isn't nice, this isn't fair to local self-government because it's about people who have to clean up land and everything else in their space first, particles, to come up with a chance to call a competition in the first place, so when they open the competition, what happens next. So I think this law is going the wrong way and yours is saying that 74 local self-governments didn't bring in the program, so why didn't you sanction them?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29034	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29035	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow parliamentary representative, as high quality and transparently done under the existing law, tells a large number of complaints, complaints and complaints to competent institutions for irregularities and non-action of commissions, or municipal city councils that have made decisions on how to dispose of agricultural land. Why isn't something sanctioned? We are talking about a law that is back ten years and those units of local self-government should long have been sanctioned or the Agricultural Land Agency should do the job and manage an important resource for agricultural production on their behalf. I cannot agree with you that units of local self-government will be excluded in any way because if you have read the law you have seen that one member of the commission is also scheduled to be from the units of local self-government. Given the income that this law will have in the 50% amount, a large part of the work will be done by local self-government units and included, but at a much faster and shorter procedure. When we talk about transparency, it was all hand-to-hand. I said a database was set up, an information system was created in which all our farmers who are interested will have insight into what areas are free and what are subject to availability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29036	Thank you. Replica, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29037	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a long-published law, revolutionary, reformative, unfortunately I read it thoroughly, and I haven't found any of those arguments on which it will be what you say will increase the use of agricultural land and increase transparency. That's what my colleagues were talking about already in this replica, but I'm just asking you is there anything transparent that will bring in two members of the board from the agency, one from the local self-government? That's a little funny. And the decision will be made to quote the law: "agency." Who at the agency? Is the director, is the board of directors, will all the staff at the agency sit on one college and then on a proposal from a committee that is very transparent because a local self-government unit with one member is represented? And it is not transparent where the decision on the proposal of the Competition Committee was taken by the Municipal Council, the Municipal Council, which was drawn up by representatives of all the political options that were given or denied consent to the decision by the Ministry at that local self-government unit, and then finally blessed by the State Attorney's Office. There's no one to complain to here, no one to make a decision, no one to make a decision. This is a little bit I'd say non-transparent. And I have to say that this is an inappropriate way for 2013 of this kind of centralization. Well, according to all trends and plan 21, you've advocated decentralisation, further decentralisation. I'm surprised here in our benches there's a lot of mayors, mayors both on the left and on the right. And now it turns out that these are people who didn't know how to enforce the law, and some two members of the agency will know and someone at the agency will make a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29038	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29039	Thank you. I will repeat my colleague, Cobankovic, within ten years under the current law, you have placed below 30% of the agricultural land. You did not provide our agricultural producers with a basic resource that is also possible if you are already calling for Plan 21 of the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia. We said clearly in Plan 21 agricultural land, water and forests are the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia and are not the subject of sales. About how and how the majority of municipal and city councils are with honorable exceptions, most colleagues who have done this programme well show that once again I will say a number of applications, complaints and cases that are processed both by the DORH and the competent institutions. In this way you will know exactly who is responsible, how and in what way. You also know that the Agricultural Land Agency as well as all other agencies have a statute that determines who, as well as how decisions are made, and representatives of local self-government units will participate in the way and procedures of decision-making in a quality and good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29040	Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29041	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I think this law should be called by the right name immediately. It is not the Law on Agricultural Land that is the law on the fraud of all family agricultural holdings, the law on favoring large ones, the law on the spit of all units of local self-government, all directly elected mayors, all directly elected councilmen on the left or on the right. This is also the law on the flowering of corruption. Jerbo's law states that the minister himself, can give for five years, doesn't say how many acres. He can give a thousand acres to who? In the end, the last question, who wrote this law? Was it written by former ministerial assistants, deputy ministers who are now in large Croatian economic giants, and has the law been written for them? Is it enough to say that the first and primary condition is 60% in deciding someone from the agency, someone who gets paid, someone who, if he doesn't do what the minister says gets his ass kicked, gets fired from that job. 60% is an economic programme. Who's privileged here? Agrokor, someone else or a small peasant, or a small family economy? And it's this law. And as for the ministry's role, for two years, you haven't had the strength for a year, you haven't had the courage to respond to all those demands and all the tenders that have been carried out in your drawer or in your deputy drawer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29042	Thank you. Take control of your colleagues in the statements, this is the Croatian Parliament. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29043	Dear colleague Vinkovic, I'm going to ask you here as resolution minister, don't underestimate our agricultural producers. Agricultural producers, OPG owners who have quality production, who have a business plan, who develop their family economies, make sure they have a good quality and good understanding of the economic programme. I categorically claim that this law is not written for either large or small. Even though without the big ones, there's no small ones. It's written for anyone who can, knows and wants to work. Not so far as it was distributed that agricultural producers were the last, really agricultural producers or active farmers as they call our colleagues in Europe were the last with their own programmes, going according to family, going to tribal, going along the party line of land allocation, not according to the economic valorisation of their own production. I say once again, if our agricultural producers know how to work quality with economies, they will only write what they are doing through the economic programme and continue to plan with their economies and in what direction they are developing them. So far, we've had examples of people getting nothing to do with agricultural production, but they were very close to the commissions, or municipal and city councils, and they were getting very large areas without having any agricultural production. This economic programme, in fact, protects all those who have haunted family economies, who have good production and will therefore have the parameters to run for production itself. We're just gonna get one piece of information that... Just one piece of information that our cattlemen are short of 120,000 acres of agricultural land. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They went into major investments, they built farms and through operational programmes, and this country didn't provide them with agricultural land, resources to feed the breeding herds they had.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29044	Thank you. Thank you. ... Please, everyone has a chance to express their opinion through a replica, through a reply to a replica, through a debate and please a little democracy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29045	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said that so far, the implementation of the programme and this Agricultural Land Act has been abundant in many illegalities. Well, of course, you further explained that many of these members of the municipal council, the chiefs, are in some way thieves. And on the other hand, you questioned the work of state lawyers who are also involved in this. We know what their role is. Please, another thing you're saying is that, on a number of good points that will achieve the effect of the adoption of this law, and among other things, the formation of an economy, family with a good perspective. Well, your activities so far, Mr. Minister, have done everything possible to keep those economies in the dark. Oh, they're all done, too. You've destroyed the dairy. So you see how much support there is and in that part they don't have a perspective. Well, it's not a production that can be run by a feather move, one way or another. When something is destroyed, if you've allowed 30 grand for a cow or more to end up on a forced slaughter. If you've allowed so many family farms to fail. So what did you do, Mr. Minister? And now you're saying they have a perspective, they know, they'll work. So how? When something is destroyed, it is difficult, especially in agriculture, to return to its initial positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29046	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29047	Well, I haven't seen a esteemed parliamentary representative here actually make actual remarks about the law. But if you've already mentioned dairy cattle, I think for the last time in the assembly that I said very clearly: In 2012. 1800 family economies stopped delivering milk, unlike the 11th when it was 2100. So it is not Minister Jakovina who destroyed the family economies, but that we are creating frameworks and we are giving opportunities through this law to reach the resources of agricultural land and to round up their production and be competitive in that part. I'll just point out once more, in 10 years you've only put 30% of the state land into operation. The measurable size from year to year will be seen by this law how effective it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29048	And Josip Djakic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29049	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, really, this law is totally non-transparent, it's centralization of state agricultural land management and it speaks of everything that the agency you appoint will decide everything in the future. To whom the land will be available. It is clearly seen from the criteria introduced in this law who will decide and how to assess. 60 points as most can be obtained for the economic programme. The best economic programme can offer the strongest and strongest. Through this so far communicating with you, my community chiefs, more than half a year, 13 months have passed since they chose the most favourable for which the State's Attorney's Office has given its consent. You didn't sign the contracts until today. What are you up to? You're aiming to undo it, to divide the land for your manipulators. You also talk about transparency and the decision to sell by direct contract is made by the Agency. It's one of the items in this law. Well, I think it's just analizing to transparency. On the other hand, when you have abolished the counties that encouraged the development of agriculture in 15 segments, you take those 25% so that they can no longer dispose of it and give local self-governments that say they were not these frames to make available to agricultural land. If they are not municipal councils, if they are not municipal committees, if they are not the consent of the ministry, if they are not the consent of the state's attorney, the county's attorneys were enough for transparency, I don't know how your buffers from the agency will be enough for transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29050	Replication response, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29051	So I will only mention my dear colleague Djakic, that the Agriculture Land Agency is not the invention of Minister Jakovina. It was long established, although I'm going to mention it once more, had a director who was also head of the agricultural land administration and president of the board of directors, incompatible functions for an agency that spent money and didn't do anything. This when you talk about possible transparency and non-transparentity of problems, for ten years it was a deadline when these same municipal councils were based on available programs that had enough time to put land in office. Unfortunately, they didn't do it. They didn't do it. We are coming into a situation that we have a large number of farmers who cannot reach land in this way, I have said so far that the procedures have lasted five years, and when you mention this part of the possible sale, we are talking about small small border plots with the aim of buying and by making that decision gives consent to the DORH. So it's not the discretionary right of the agency, of the minister or of someone else. In those cases, it's consent to the DORH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29052	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government Committee President Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29053	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government held 23. Last January's session and discussed the proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. After the introduction of the proposal, which pointed out that this proposal for a law, all matters of state-owned agricultural land in place of units of local self-government were taken over by the agricultural land agency, I apologized for the forms of availability to the agricultural land of the country concerned by sale, the long-term lease of agricultural land and ponds were abolished, and made available on the lease for 50 years and also made available to the agricultural land and the possibility of giving agricultural land for use without public invitation. In the discussion of the Committee members, the Committee president stated the basic view that this bill constitutes a full centralisation in the decision on agricultural land, or unit of local self-government, of any right and opportunity to decide on agricultural land in its area. Issues have also been raised as to what is being carried out under the existing law, the applicable law, which is with the decisions taken by the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. Why there is no response from the competent ministry to the procedures that have been carried out so far, or to the requests for a decision, which is with those who now have land and process, and do not have the necessary documentation, which is with one-year contracts, and what is with the placing and expansion of agricultural land in building land. The view was made that this law favours large farmers when it comes to terms of tender for the agricultural land and that small family economies will find it difficult to reach the ground. After the debate was held, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion, to adopt a proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, and to present any observations, proposals and opinions in the debate with a view to drawing up a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29054	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29055	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The laws we bring to the Croatian Parliament should be in the function of the strategy. Thus, the Agricultural Land Act should also serve as a agricultural strategy. Does this government even have a agricultural strategy? Has the Parliament ever seriously discussed a farming strategy based on a serious, studied and enforceable document. In fact, what's the point of this law? I've heard opposing opinions in this law. To those who have claimed that the law is good, I have asked the question of what is good. Compared to a previous one, which is also concluded so that agricultural problems can be partially solved from the middle, without foundations, and without roofs. Will this land law undo the negative effects in agriculture? Will there be chaos in agriculture? If this law guarantees that breeders of male cows and milk producers will finally get for each cow in a hectare of farmland. Will Croatia have enough of its own food after Parliament adopts the law? If they don't have enough of their own food, will they at least reduce food imports more significantly? Will farmers finally have their products to sell to, or will the state continue to protect and favour importers and domestic producers of agricultural products systematically destroy? How will the Land Allocation Agency share the land if we do not know what to produce? Yes, right, the land should be leased by the one who farmes the land, the one who manufactures it. Who's gonna say what needs to be produced? The market. What market? Self-regulatory. And who else believes in the self-regulatory market of agricultural products? Agriculture is a low-accumulated activity that requires a stable, regulated, secure environment. And what is safe and stable in Croatia except for the sudden changes in the tax system and cemented like a personal bear, a protected import lobby? So, you don't know what to produce because you don't know what to produce, you don't know at what price to produce, and you don't know at all who's going to buy what the peasants are going to produce. Why am I asking so many questions? Because the state doesn't give a single superfluous answer. Unless someone thinks the key and solution is right in the lease and sale of agricultural land. Shouldn't the government first set goals, then thinking about the goals of coming up with a strategy and eventually selecting tactics? True, I have never heard of those other agricultural producers having a vision of what Croatian agriculture should be, in which way it should function, which state should play a role, except of course as much as possible. On the other hand, there is no answer because less than 1% of people educated in agricultural production despite the fact that world practice proves that each year of schooling increases production by 7%. It is indisputable that the government wants to make more order in the assignment of agricultural land with this law. Is there anything more logical than that the state assigns state land, has it available or that the county, municipalities, cities assign or lease their land? Clear and loud Croatian Labourists are against selling and giving state agricultural land to anyone, anytime and anywhere. We're against selling what's state-owned. And we agree with that part of the law, but we do not agree with the vaguely stated criteria for the lease of state land because these criteria will be the callinators of corruption. Nor does this law prevent the favor of the great owners, such as Ivica Todorovic. The law flirts with the far-reaching savage neoliberal of the former first Deputy Prime Minister Cacic promoted, and never since the government disputed concept what is good for Todorovic is good for Croatia. That's what the first Deputy Prime Minister said, and the government never denied that it was true. Croatia is Todorovic and is then not inclined by the Agricultural Land Act, it and it are somewhat smaller owners. To them, the new age-old state owners sold 7% of the state's best land, and 22% of the land was leased to them by the state at naturally more favourable prices. In a state without an economic and agricultural strategy, this law wants to re-apply to a more flexible law with corporate interests. You want to rent land owned by the state so you can grow snails on it. In order to compete or enter the drum at all, you must build an economic program. You must make it but the state in no segment nor in this farm should you make it. If you don't make a good economic land use programme for snail farming, you have no chance of getting a lease from the state for a year or so, let alone, it would be far better if there was a provision in the law for not 50 years than 50 years. Of the 100 maximum points, an economic land use programme can bring a maximum of 60. The amount of rent offered brings you 20 points, the rest of the 20 points will be paid if you are in peaceful possession of the state agricultural land. Who will evaluate these programs? You don't know yet. The law doesn't even mention who might be the valuers, what their qualifications are, who are the people, who are the supermen who will be able to decide for themselves who to give the country to and who not to give it to. There'll probably be clerks at the Agricultural Land Agency. By what criteria will economic programmes be evaluated? The criteria will be prescribed by the government regulation. Can every farmer create a good economic programme for the use of state agricultural land? He can't, of course he can't. It's an opportunity to mutate profits in sprinkles. How do you avoid it? Peasants should receive generous help from advisory services. The economic programme must be appropriate to the size of the family economy, and annual reports must be made aware of the reports on the implementation of the plan. In the lease of state land, it should bear in mind that the policy of explicitly favoured large agricultural production has been missed, it has contributed to the destruction of the vast majority of Croatian peasants, it has contributed to the destruction of agricultural production, destruction of Croatian villages, and has contributed to huge unemployment and defetism. Systemically destroying small economies, and since you large Todoric estates had as much profit as possible was another incredible Croatian transition delusion. As we destroyed our own in Austria, smaller economies continue to dominate. For example, 3/4 Austrian cows are located in holdings with flocks of up to 30 cows. In Croatia, 3/4 of the family's dairy-produced economies were destroyed in eight years because of the lack of any agricultural policy. If there is an answer to this law to that problem, of course not, it will only strengthen it. There is a higher profit than imported lower milk, and these Croatian patriots are not interested in anything but profits. They are not interested in the peasants or the village or the heavy fate of the farmers' children or the total destruction of Croatia. The main thing is to grow their bank account. The Agricultural Land Act allows and sells land by direct contract with the State, with the law saying that the market price will be determined by the Agency. So even when it comes to the sale of agricultural land, the neoliberal government does not believe in the power of the self-regulatory market. Prices will appear to determine the agency according to different criteria. Why isn't it believed in the market? There will be lower prices, and higher prices will be lower. After all, it would be interesting to hear who the state sold 62,000 acres of its country to and at what price and put it on the Internet like many things this government puts on the Internet. One of the strangest, actually the most controversial solutions in the law is what determines that the state can make use of for professional and scientific teaching purposes, this should be particularly highlighted, for rehabilitation and socialization and other agricultural purposes for 25 years, 10 hectares without compensation, up to 100 hectares with 50% rent and over 100 hectares of 100% rent. I ask Minister Jakovina to explain to me what professional, scientific and educational programmes will take place on 100 hectares of land and in small countries like Croatia. Former prisoners seem to be able to socialise on 100 and more hectares of the country riding horses and enjoying the wild nature of the country's weeds, or this provision is written in law so that some of the Croatian tycoons can get over the order of a well invented economic programme of 100 and more hectares of the state country at more favourable prices. And the provision of exceptional state-owned sales is a potential spreader of the corruption virus against which the government no longer speaks a single word as if corruption is missing in Croatia and has it at every turn. The corruption virus will be for at least two reasons, the first direct contract between the agency and the buyer. The agency is all-powerful, the agency knows everything, the agency can do anything. The second is a vague provision which is a catastrian particle of a small area. In order to believe in the good cause of this law, all doubt should be made clear, all provisions opening up to corruption throughout the door and all provisions favouring the great owners once again should be removed. Good, actually the best part of this law is the fact that there is another reading ahead of us and before the second reading the follow-up of the public debate. That earlier public debate forced the government not to wave a red cloth on the peasants just as rudely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29056	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. There's seven of them. Zoran Vinkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29057	Here's an esteemed colleague, you were right in part that Croatia has no agricultural strategy. It does, but it is extremely outdated and is based primarily on larger imports than the export of agricultural products, which is visible in all balance sheets. You also asked whether after this law would reduce the import of these agricultural products, food, whether farmers would live better. I'm telling you they won't because this is exactly the law that they come into a subordinate position relative to so-called. big because it's the basis of everything economic program. You're wrong to say more clearly than the state owns state land. I remind you, that land was social. The question is, what are the units of local self-government then in that state, a fiction that doesn't need this country? So that's part of the state. And finally, let's clear this up about the ministry's role in the current law. So you need to know that the ministry has so far given or has not given consent to the competitions carried out. So you asked the question of who in the agency would solve all these rental items, and I agree with one of the few cities that exclusively leased was the city of Djakova, so without selling agricultural land. So the same ones from the ministry who were supposed to write to the minister and let him sign either consent or disagreement on the contests conducted, and all these tenders, therefore thanks to the work and this ministry stands in the drawer, and so on by the former. And that the state is the worst master on its land, so I don't think I have to explain to you now the work of both the former and these governments because they have proven to be extremely bad masters.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29058	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29059	It would be more politically correct to say, you said you were wrong, you think I'm wrong, you think you're right, everyone here in the assembly thinks he's right. I agree with you, I disagree with you in your claim that we have a strategy, you said in part we don't have or in part we do, I didn't remember. If we had at least a partial strategy, then we wouldn't have enough production, I think it's just two products, which are mandarins and chicken meat. I'm not sure, mostly you know that we import leaves, bumblebees, anything that can be imported, everything we import. With the agricultural strategy, we would not have, we would not face the startling fact that if someone isolated us, built a wall and rocked Croatia to starve to death in six months. Is that part of the strategy? It's not any strategy and shame of this government and all the previous governments is that the country that we have, the beautiful country, has turned into nothing really into a weed and a ray. That's for sure. I don't think a fair government can fairly divide the country if they're clear criteria and if you know exactly who's responsible for what. I don't think that the government can be more unfair than the local unit, with the fact that I don't think or that they are, that the local unit is, or that the assembly or council is unfair. So, we wouldn't do that, it makes sense to me that the country the government has, whose property it owns, you said that was before social property. So let's ask ourselves what happened before social property and before that ownership, then let's go to the seventh century. Yeah. Yeah, but it's that comeback. Now the situation is as it is. So we talk about it, and when it's the law, we can talk about it. Therefore, the agricultural strategy should be adopted. What all ministers call in this government strategy is actually individual bad attempts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29060	Thank you. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29061	In principle, I agree with the predecessor. You know what the problem is, Mr. Representative, of these laws so far. It is one built-in defect that the peasant gets little while the mechanics in Croatia get a lot. The farmer's all incentivizes, loans, land to rent, but the mixers to the country. My six generations in the Kaiins acquired cca 6 ha of agricultural land ca so many forests in 300 years. An Istrian politician for his six salaries comes to 6 ha of agricultural land and the value of his latifundia, and the country buys 130,000 kuna by a million euros. That practice you were talking about should be stopped. You can't sell a thousand metres of agricultural land in Istria for an equivalent of five bucks worth of Ronhill. That's the point. Local self-government absolutely everything, but let's get the non-agriculturals out of the country. How many generals have acquired hundreds of acres of land, the state gets incentives and then they give the country into leases and the peasants pay them the land once more. That's first reading, that's good. That's why I am for that law except where you can round up your property, where some service can be solved for the benefit of peasants, etc. And now what you put an accent on. Now we've got the little ones we sell land to for one kuna. We have a mixer that buys land for one kuna, but we also have big-time owners who have thousands, thousands and five hundred, two thousand acres. And now in Istria, one hectare of agricultural land should be urbanized and it should be sold for 100 to 150 euros, and it will buy thousands of hectares of agricultural land from 1 ha of urbanized land. It can't be that way, and that's why I'm so hot for this law, even though I clearly respect the need for local self-government to be as powerful as possible and to help the peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29062	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29063	So certainly, we can all agree on that except for those who have led agriculture so far and who have not made a agricultural strategy, and they should have, and that in this country, a peasant gets little or nothing, and that the most benefit is those profiters or people who import almost don't know how much 60% we're not self-sufficient. The most important issue of this Law is absolutely certain about the criteria for how to divide the country, how to make as little injustice as possible. There is absolutely no way to avoid injustice, because it cannot be avoided by any country, but it can be minimal injustice. So far, they've shared people in the ministry no matter what local units they've been and they've had the main word in assigning land to their friends, their children, their grandchildren, and they've even left the country behind for their grandkids. One thing that's important is the one thing that's been talked about, which is the reuse of agricultural land, which should also be more clearly worked out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29064	Petar Cobankovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29065	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I quite agree with your debate when you talk about the law. I agree the law isn't done and the law isn't good. But let me also mention a few things, so I'll rephrase those things. They're not that important, about the law. But in one indirect way, they're also important to this law. You said no strategy was ever adopted. Croatia became an EU candidate in 2004. In 2005, negotiations on EU and Croatian membership opened during that period did not have time to waste time on adopting a 2 to 3-year strategy. It has to be done and therefore the operational programmes adopted for those I would say segments of agricultural production that were vitally important, and I would say about our further status in the EU, and that is primarily to those that were produced, I would say, for which there were production restrictions such as milk production, sugar, then raising vineyards and the like. As a result, an operational programme for increasing livestock production, the operational programme for increasing pig production, the operational programme for raising long-term plantations, the operational programme for vegetable production and the like has been adopted. And according to these operational programmes, certain results have been obtained. I'll just say an example in milk. From 2003 to 2010 milk production increased by 150 million litres, which created the assumption that Croatia would receive a satisfactory milk production quota quota. Croatia too today will have no problem entering the EU that some of our producers will not be able to produce milk. As far as you're concerned, you also said that farmers fought for as much as possible support. Supports are an integral part of increasing the competitiveness of certain production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29066	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29067	Your Honor, I'll start with this last thing you said in your replica. They were unclear criteria for support. This shows that the support was high, we didn't achieve the effect of producing cheaper and better and more. It's obvious that it's not missed, completely missed. You said no strategy was adopted, but operational programs were adopted. Here's one such operational program that was also from your coalition partner at HSS. We've heard about this year about the rebirth of the village, about how the city's citizens will flock to the village because the village will be reborn and billions of people have been shot for that rebirth. But what did it get? It came to me just before I was saying two-thirds, three-quarters of the economies failed. What kind of rebirth we have experienced, what kind of operational programs are sufficiently speaking about the situation that is now in agriculture. This situation today is not the result of a year of government of the Kukuriku coalition but eight years of destruction of the previous one, and before that let's add up these twelve. Forgive this country as if in a year it had fallen and fallen into a abyss. So is that possible? Well, if we wanted to, we couldn't make anyone in power. You've been destroying it for eight years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29068	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29069	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, so here's just that what you've answered, is just enough to compare incentives for pig farming and incentives to produce tobacco that is twice as high as the incentives for pig husbandry. But I didn't want to say that, I wanted to talk and look back on that part of your part about an economic programme that carries 60% of the terms for getting a lease, or concession. In fact, that 60% reminds me of the Law on the Selection of Judges where some commission or the State Election Commission also decides on the basis of interviews and written test 60%. Now, when the one who is unhappy with the choice, as well as here in the agricultural land, asks him to see the economic programme or the case of the other who was admitted or who got what he was at the competition, then they tell him you can't see it. It's a three-member commission decision, triumphate. Do we really think that a triumvirate, no matter who it is, can really work objectively? And you said it was a new source of corruption. And I think it's enough just to suspect it. So, already, in lawmaking given the experience in Croatian society in such and similar competitions, I think you're right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29070	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29071	A respected colleague of the law has several weak points. Surely, one of the weakest points is exactly the point in which the agency will determine who gets the land. Look, when you're only giving one point of the score 60% means you don't get any chance of winning if you're not at the mercy of these people, if you're not at the mercy of those three. What is not written in the regulation will be the government regulation when the law is passed then the government will adopt the regulation in six months and then the regulation will tell what a good economic programme means. So 60% depends on the fate of the peasants in the hands of some economic program that can be fluid, which can simply say I don't like it. If there are no clear criteria, which means the economic programme, how it is taken, and how the evaluation committee will approach, it means some professional body, and it is very important who is sitting in it, who will decide that we know clearly and loudly how to control it, what are the consequences of bad decisions, who will undo those decisions. It doesn't say anything. This law is like a parachute falling out of the sky. And none of that criteria are clear. Therefore, this is certainly one source of corruption and corruption will increase with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29072	Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29073	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, you have listed several in your debate, I would say a group of problems that such a bill carries, and a good part of these remarks really stands. However, it is especially important to highlight one that I do not think is so far, and more likely to be highlighted later in the debates, which is the fact that our agricultural policy measures will have to be in line with legislation by entering the EU, but since 1 July 2013, we will have to apply EU regulations. As well as those related to the area of support in agriculture. By 14 May, if I am not mistaken, this year we will therefore be conditioned to grant these support will be the condition for granting payment rights is the entry of land in the ARCOD and by 14 May of this year at the latest. Now, look, the agency that you are predicting or theoretically not being able to place first to carry out agricultural land disposal procedures owned by a state within those deadlines by a certain entry into the EU, not only until 14 May, but it will not be able to do so even until it is forbidden for foreigners to buy the country. Therefore, the justification for this law is that only 30% of the area has been leased so far. It wasn't the units of local self-government, it was the Ministry of Agriculture. There were objects there for a year and a year and more, and they were not returned to those who were troublesome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29074	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29075	And instead of speeding up a solution to the ministry's problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29076	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29077	You took right away the municipalities and the cities and purposely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29078	Please keep an eye out, there's a lot of reports, take care of the weather. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29079	Dear fellow Buric, I fully agree that this is one dimension in which I have not spoken, which is likely to be discussed and discussed and cleared up some of the misunderstandings. First of all, it's amazing how little we know what's going to happen, and probably peasants, I don't know, probably know far more than I know where agriculture isn't. What will happen to Croatian agriculture when we enter the European Union? In what way is the village ready, what remains of the village, what has failed to destroy is it ready to join the European Union? How will he deal with this, are there any expert teams to help the peasants? It is a very important dimension, if we do not have it prepared, so we are again waiting for a period in which family economies will collapse in which more and more people will end up on the stock market, where more and more people will move out of the village and that will be the last nail in Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29080	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29081	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, you were talking about strategy, the strategy of agriculture, and in that part, I noticed it as a good intention, and I think it stands. But I want to say that here in this law, that this is gambling, there is no strategy here, this is a gambling approach to solving problems in agriculture by ignoring the appeals of people living off the ground. And ask farmers, colleague Vuksic, when they lived better, while there was an earlier ministry and support or now and when they fail? Ask that too. You said you might not know about it, and I know because I witness the collapse of these agricultural holdings every day. And it's incorrect that they haven't, that so far, the operational programs have not received results. It is very much in the milking of 150 million gallons of milk, several thousand stands newly built or restored. It's all the results, not to mention the one about olivery and the other part. But then you ask the key question: Will this law contribute to increasing milk production? He won't. A colleague, Vuksic, will no longer return those 30,000 and more cows that ended up in a forced slaughter. No one will bring back a few thousand of those family farms that have fallen apart and fall apart every day like you said. More who will return them now to those people who ended up at the employment office thanks to these measures. So this is one approach that promises nothing but what you said leads to the breakdown of Croatian villages and that nail in the coffin of Croatian peasants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29082	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29083	Dear colleague Milinkovic, I agree, nothing will be done because the import lobby is protected. Some players in this corporate democracy are too strong to be forced to influence the law. You said there was no strategy in the law? And it shouldn't be in the law of the strategy, the law is just a tool for achieving the strategy. However, we should have talked sooner about what we wanted with Croatian agriculture and then passed a law appropriate to that strategy. It goes upside down, goes upside down, like in all other areas. I don't agree with you in fact, of course we won't agree, that the operational programs have yielded fruit, they haven't. Croatian agriculture is on its knees and it has not been in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29084	And the last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In this law, in fact, you spoke about transparency in your colleague Vuksic, and you have concluded yourself that the acceleration in the procedures that should be in favour of agricultural production will certainly be lacking. It will be left out for the following reasons, since so far on these jobs between 5 and 7 members of the municipal commissions have done these jobs, that programmes that are now being abolished at the municipal level have been adopted, so the agency will do so. The current, I don't know how many employees there are, but I hope that this job, which totalled more than 3.5 thousand people worked throughout Croatia, should employ probably new at least a hundred people to satisfy speed, operationality, and that this law, which provides for the acceleration of the procedures of the lease or the long-term lease of land, would be meaningful. In fact, when we talk about the transparency mentioned here, we can often say clearly that it is not there, it is missing. Since some can be awarded land without a public call, without a public tender as you have concluded, but also the criteria for appointing a member who will be in front of municipal councils or local self-government. They will probably be appointed by the minister himself so that there are all three in this commission who will evaluate this economic programme that will offer great and huge progress, employment, etc. Can't we see they're mentioned in any of the O.P.G. articles? They're left out, there's only natural and legal persons. We'll shut down the O.P.G.s. Those who are employed through the OPG no longer need to work will have no land under this law. They will also lack their ability to be a priority for land acquisitions for everything they have done so far when they have taken loans, made farms, used incentives for urbanisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29086	Reply to Replica Branko Vukšić: Here's a colleague, Branko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29087	I don't think this law really makes sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29088	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29089	Dear colleague Djakic, you spoke of transparency, I think the law is transparent, they are easily readable letters and everything can be read. However, what is hidden between the lines is the evil that will not immediately be seen by all those who read the law on their backs will first feel the peasants especially those, say milk producers, those who grow milk cows, who, last summer I visited several places in Slavonia, talked to them who simply did not get land to rent, could not get land for hire and were forced to rent a country to eat their flock. Is this law correcting this situation? It certainly does not fix because it does not see the criteria on which the government or agency will decide, but it could have been done differently. There could have been synergies between the Agency and the government and local self-government, there could have been a good will, there could have been a model in which the government would have more influence, more responsibility, what counterpart Buric said before, the government was the one who braked it. But now if it will continue to work that way. If the government decides in everything local self-government is excluded from all this, there is no synergy written well to the peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29090	On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Marija Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29091	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin this debate with Professor Michael Gracanin, one of the most significant pedologists of 20. A century that says, "The Croatian people live in the true sense of the word from the earth. In his work he founded his life in the past, and he will build it in the future. The soil of Croatia is the greatest treasure of the Croatian people, the inexhaustible source of its forces and the foundation of the Croatian homeland." These words bind all generations of the Croatian people to a responsible attitude towards the ground as links between our ancestors and new generations. The soil has a multiple role, a productive, ecological, social, economic and cultural historical role. Fortunately, most agree with this fact, so in all the laws on agricultural land as well as their changes and additions, it is always written at the beginning that agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. The need for organised care and soil protection is particularly highlighted today when we are affected by unpredictable climate change and there are less and less normal years and more extreme are being overly wet or excessively dry. One way to mitigate the consequences of such events is to regulate agricultural land by hydromeliorating in such a way as to quickly and effectively remove excess water and to ensure a irrigation system for dry periods. And what is the situation in Croatia? Not one hectare of agricultural land has been drenched since its independence. We are last in Europe on irrigated surfaces, and at the very top of the world we are available for this purpose. For example. The Netherlands doesn't know what's regular about us, but it's still 1995. It irrigated almost 30% of the working surfaces and Croatia then and now about 1%. In order to get close to European countries with advanced agriculture as we want to have, we need to address the issue of land regulation and the condition for this is the rounding up of parcels and the long-term lease, which is the basic objective of this law. The basic prerequisite for the design and implementation of land policy is the correct record of the agricultural areas we have and which Croatia unfortunately does not have. Thus, data on agricultural areas that can be found in official documents range from 1.03 to 3.2 million hectares. As a result, good functioning of the agency and the establishment of information systems in agricultural land is essential, which is well defined by this draft law. No matter what area information is correct, about 30% of the land is state-owned and the rest is private. Most economies have small total surfaces but are more of a problem in their excessive delicacy. Modern technology cannot be used on such surfaces, and even with great expertise it is not possible to achieve economically competitive production. On the other hand, state agricultural land was used on the basis of a state-owned programme brought by units of local self-government, municipalities and cities and agreed upon by the ministry. Some municipalities and cities have so far not built their own programme and the application of the law in practice was not expected to be effective, so the fertile soil remained partially abandoned and healed in the shika. According to some data, only 49 of the total potential of the soil is currently used. As a result of such an inefficient system, the availability of state-owned land under the new law of available protection, use, transport and rounding is being taken over by the agency. This simpler model should contribute to faster and more efficient rounding, bringing culture to the previously unused agricultural land and its return to the function of food production. The aim of the rounding is, in the opinion of experts, to achieve, as soon as possible, that most economies have 15 or more hectares. Such economies should change the structure of production and deal with the production of low-income cultures by producing market-attractive products, for example. vegetables, flowers in the protected area, strawberries and other berries, medicinal plants, rabbit farming or bees, for example This model also enables the state land that is encircled and partially decorated to be preserved and protected from depletion. The law gives the Agency the opportunity to initiate and replace procedures and should also contribute to faster and simpler circulation. Furthermore, the law defines how agricultural land is monitored. This is extremely important because so far the lease land has been used in most cases rather than used. So the observed signs of soil degradation in recent years, above all the intense acidification and decline in organic content, and the importance of these two factors and productivity should not be particularly stressed. Analysis of the ground for the first and last year's leases as well as on a period of at least every five years will contribute to the control of the soil's impoverishment process. It is a good definition of the database and the mandatory establishment of the database and the mandatory introduction of the results of the analysis into the database. These data will be able to be used both for the purpose of planning and creating a development and improvement strategy of production and for scientific purposes, above all, by reducing the costs of researchers. In this regard, we welcome the possibility of giving land to scientific and educational institutions in the field of agriculture, without public call and without compensation for smaller areas. In this way, it will significantly help scientific, professional and educational activities and will not happen as in the case that I know that the plot on which a multi-annual experiment and a lot of work has been put in place will be established after the city council's decision, as a better bidder has appeared in the competition and all bidders are better on scientific and educational institutions. In public, a lot of controversy causes a 50-year term for renting land. We believe that this deadline is not controversial for the next reason. Although Croatia has as many as 36 different types of pans, it is dominated by resuscitated soil and pseudoview. The basic feature of these types of soil is that they require very expensive investments in them. No farmer will invest in a project that does not guarantee his return of investment and profit not only for him but also for his offspring, and in the agricultural activity this cannot be achieved within a short period of time. Otherwise, there will be soil depletion because it is derived from it maximum, and it is minimally invested in its fertility. It does not need to be stressed how harmful this is in the long term. Furthermore, the conditions for the re-use of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes have been strengthened, and the change considers to be the exploitation of raw materials and the creation of waste dumps and the construction of sports fields and facilities. They aim to regulate, preserve and use agricultural land primarily for the purpose of food production, which we consider extremely good. It is also good that this law goes into two readings and I would like to draw attention to a few things that may be regulated differently. Article 1 1 1 of which lists agritechnical measures to protect agricultural land from erosion by water and wind should be extended on the basis of scientific knowledge by limiting the length of rows of unsolicited multi-annual slopes on slopes, by obliging the sub-region of the inter-annual space of multi-annual plantations and by prohibiting the direction of rows of multi-annual joints along with a series of slopes. 2. We believe that the possibility should be considered that the funds incurred from the change in purpose as well as the funds generated from the lease, sale and use should be paid into the Special Fund of the Ministry of Agriculture and used for example. for the repair of agricultural land, irrigation and disposal or an increase in the production value of the soil. 3. Article 32(6) states that the Agency will conclude an rental contract annex in the event of a justified need for an amendment to the economic programme. It is understandable that such a need can arise primarily because of market changes, but we believe that it may still need to be stressed that land should continue to be used for agricultural production. 4. The award decision shall be taken on a proposal from the Commission consisting of two representatives of the Agency and one representative of the local self-government unit. However, it is not mentioned which professions are members of this committee, and we believe that we should as specified in Article 60(4). 5. In view of the inspection supervision of the implementation of the law, agricultural inspectors in the district units could prove to be ineffective because they do not have all units of local self-government employed agricultural inspectors as well as directors with completed secondary agricultural school. And finally, I want to point out, the state of the agricultural situation is currently unsustainable and needs to be changed. The current way of managing agricultural policy has led us to produce below the level of our own needs today and to become importers of food from a safe and stable exporter. And secondly, anything that contributes to the increase and or better use of agricultural areas, rounding, stimulates planning and investment in land, and prevents the atomisation of parcels is good. That's why the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29092	Thank you very much. Before we move to replicas of some information. Today we will work without a break and today we will process the first three points of the agenda. Thank you very much. First in line for the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29093	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vukbratovic, I listened very carefully to your debate. In some parts, I really agree, but I can't agree with the parts when you say that 10 to 15 years ago nothing has been invested in agricultural land. I don't know my colleagues Vukbratovic where we all lived together in this Croatia but in this Croatia there was war, in this Croatia hundreds of thousands of agricultural areas were under mines and still is. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry also encouraged demining and invested considerable resources in demining the same agricultural land to bring it into office. So that's one element where we can't just say in that part that nothing was done, that it was abandoned. Then I'd like to tell you about the ARCOD, you probably know what ARCOD is, and most of them know, it's something that was a prerequisite to even identify those agricultural particles. And imagine colleagues of Vukbratovic, some counties such as Međimurska, Varazdinska, Krapina-Zagorska have not yet made it possible to enter the ARCOD, why, because they have not been identified. A simple and unresolved situation in land books is a prerequisite equally in the scope of agricultural land. And one more thing, you were talking about this law, and you didn't point out that you disagreed, for example. to release the fee of an investor who is re-purposed with... in production, or goes into the construction of a golf course. When we had a golf course law here two years ago on the side of the SDP, there were terrible screams and screams. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29094	Thank you. finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29095	Here you are in front of the club I haven't heard of any of the other agents...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29096	Next replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29097	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's Mrs. Vukbratovic and I are from the same neighborhood, and then we can talk more argumentatively about some things. The city council was also mentioned here, probably referring to the City Council of the Crossing City. The city council did not take away any land but the law is such that the institution could not report to the competition, so it could not even win the country. You don't have to go that way now. I agree with Mrs. Maria that the situation in agriculture is unsustainable, especially in the last year, that's what everyone says, it's a fact. I also agree, as has already been said here by my colleague Vuksic that the HSS took part in all of this, so he knows it well because he was a consultant for a time at HSS so he's familiar with it. I agree that HSS participated in the work of the government, that he was exclusively dealing with the problems of agriculture and the country, and that we have often discussed state agricultural land so that we know this problem well, and that is why it is not clear to me when colleague Vukbratovic says this model will be more efficient, faster, more transparent. I don't understand how it could be when we have areas in Croatia where there are thousands of small parcels of state agricultural land that we won't be able to clean up for another 20 years. But in principle, this law has no intention of resolving it, this law probably has some particles located somewhere, some large plots that know exactly what's going to happen to them, and that's why he's changing, which is why he's doing it like this. So here is colleague Vukbratovic, I believe that we will be able to solve our grant books and state agricultural land very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29098	Replica reply, Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29099	Dear colleague Hrg, I really don't know what you would have responded to this replica of yours since it actually doesn't apply, mostly does not apply to my presentation and to my debate. As far as this case of locality is concerned, I didn't speak on purpose about names because I didn't want to spread a debate that is local, but I am stressing again and the fact that this new law will not be able to do the things that happened before, and it applies exclusively to scientific, educational institutions dealing with agriculture. And what is the financial situation in education we know well, and what are the costs of setting up experiments and how much work and effort it takes to get the final results, we all know well. As for the situation in agriculture, I said and you referred to it, it's really difficult, it's really unsustainable, but it's not such a condition in which it is now not the result of this last year but a long series of years of unconstitutional problem solving and actually a certain concern about agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29100	Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you started your discussion with an interesting quote so you reminded me, I will repeat a quote from the famous speech by Ivan Kukulević Sakcinski in 1843: we watch every day our country is falling deeper and deeper, like the estate of those children who stand under more tutors, each of these tutors puts something in their pocket, each of us takes possession of something, and then there will be nothing left for the children. Now this is the other side of the medal compared to what you wanted to say to your debate. At one point you touched, here you are now in the replica of colleague Hrg, very important things, the role of science in agriculture, and you don't say a word about what in this bill is taking incomes from counties that are precisely from these incomes, and here I'm going to give an example of Osijek-Baranja County which is exactly what you mentioned, an analysis of the soil, soil control from these funds connected the scientific and research institutions from our university directly with agricultural producers. And it is good that the first reading is, but if there is a good will then the legislator of this argument will also be taken into consideration until the second reading, and I expect from you the basis of your debate because you have pointed out the importance of soil control and do not take away the revenues from the counties that carry out significant projects in the area of agricultural promotion. It can't be done by a state development agency, it can only be done by local self-government, by a regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29102	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29103	So here's when you've already touched a respected colleague of fertility control and soil analysis that's exactly what's good in this law, which is now regulated and exactly who's going to, how and when they're going to conduct the analysis. Your current policy of certain counties has been to do so, but no one has committed you to it, and that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29104	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29105	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Members of Vukbratovic, you well quoted Mr. Gracanin's famous pedolologist where you said that the Croatian people lived from the country and that they would live from the country if he quotes well. And it's true that he lived, lived, even when he was working with cows. But the question is how will they live in the future if we testify to what we witness the collapse of the family farms, the decline in production and everything else. In that sense, you were talking about small plots. It's true, so not all of them are born as sons of this and that they wouldn't advertise someone if they had hundreds and thousands of acres. That's right. I come from the middle where relatively small parcels are, but our farmers and cattlemen are mainly, and livestock is the feather of agriculture with their hard work, but of course with the support, the support they have come to form and round their land in, therefore, increased production. And I come from the middle where there were almost 35,000 gallons of milk being produced. Today it is 20% and a significant amount of meat thanks to the support but also the price of milk. So what happened now? Supports are... how they fell 40% compared to two years ago, and they contributed without talking about the price of milk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, the price of milk, dear colleague, fell, you saw in February what the agricultural protests last year warned about and what happened. They said two kunas and 43 limes. In the end, it turned out to be a 40 kuna, not to mention the cost of the support. Last year there was such a mess at that price that it couldn't be done at all, people didn't know why they were getting it. So he says these days, please? They didn't know why they didn't win, and these days there's no support for dairy cows either. Another thing the milk package also says is making a rule about the milk package. He says he won't make a ransomer offer. Well, these are all the things that lead to the destruction of Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29106	Thank you. Reply to the replica Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29107	Dear colleague, we can't talk about two different things. Now we're talking about the Law on Agricultural Land, right, not the price of milk. However, so far it has and has not, is and is not. When we talk about support, support for our entry into the EU is defined, you know that. And so far, discussions and reflections and discussions on milk prices have not really raised the question of productivity, the question of knowledge and investment in science, but have always been about support, which of course is not good. By increasing productivity, our more efficient production and this price of milk or some similar price of milk, we could be competitive and earning money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29108	Replica Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. You gave us a nice lecture, and I don't think it's a bad thing for Parliamentarians to find out a little bit and more about agricultural land because it's something that's one big national fortune and that creates a conjecture for one segment, one branch of the economy. And I would sort of agree with you, Mrs. Representative, when you say the situation in agriculture is extremely difficult. Yeah, it's a tough situation if they're bad agricultural policies. Last year, there was a significant decrease in incentives compared to 2011 by nearly a billion kuna. In this year's downturn fell another 500 million, and now we are from 3 billion to 700 that we came in 2013 to 2 billion and 250 million. And that's what's the main problem. We have to have a competitive farmer, but we can't have him competitive if he doesn't have the same conditions as he has, I'd say a farmer in the EU where we're going. And finally, the European Commission did not give Croatia financial envelopes because we were beautiful, cute, a little chubby, a little chubby and like this. It provided on the basis of certain capacity and certain levels of support. And our financial envelope for agriculture is somewhere around 720 million euros. I want you to translate it into kunas, and then you'll come as far as it is. That this is significant more than where we were in 2011 at 3 billion and 700, and in particular more than double the EU entry than we have planned in 2013. And the result is where we are in agriculture today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29110	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29111	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Vukbratovic, you've said a lot, but you forgot to say 25% reduction and elimination of counties from part of the land lease. They're gonna lose all those programs they've had so far. For example, the programme in livestock farming, the promotion of cattle and the production of technical documentation for barns, for mini milkers, will lose subsidies, premiums on the provision of high-value breeding throats in livestock, the promotion of honey production. All of this was done through the plant production development programme co-financed the cost of buying industrial vegetables, encouraging plastic production, vegetables and flowers, promoting the planting of permanent plantations in fruit growing and wine growing, promoting the production of strawberries, certification of peppers, co-financing of the procurement of nets for fighting, encouraging fruit production, encouraging tobacco production through rural development will lose co-financing of cadastrian measurements that are very important and most important in all segments of the establishment of land books and catastrian measurement to achieve real ownership and parcels. Co-financing of exhibitions, fairs, competitions, fruit exhibitions, vegetables, honey exhibitions, bees products Agroexpo, Agro arca, competition... The exhibition of wine, fishing tourism, competition and exhibition of Slavonian cold-blooded horses, the disposal of hazardous waste in agriculture, counselling and education for farmers, scientific gatherings, participation in irrigation projects, co-financing of interest for development projects in agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all out. You should have said that more counties through these programmes won't be able to finance anything because they're being abolished 25% of their income and strictly intended for this development of agriculture. That's not gonna happen anymore, that's what you forgot to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29112	Replica reply, Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29113	Dear colleague, it's a matter of commitment. So don't tell me that the county funded all these programs you said, just from those funds they got from selling or renting the land. So what about those local self-government units that didn't even bring their own programs? What does that mean, they didn't finance anything at all? Well, there are other assets in the county and it's a matter of commitment. Whether it is necessary to co-finance and assist farmers or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29114	I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). At 11.03 p.m., the Rules of Procedure expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The word was requested by Minister Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29115	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Once again, I thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In view of the heated debate later, I will have very little time left to answer everything, so I am taking this opportunity to try to explain some of the additional items of the law even after two of the distinguished observations on behalf of the clubs. Dear colleague Vuksic, I agree with a lot of the things you have stated, I agree with a number of what has been said but also with a lot of things not. For example, first of all, this is centralization. No, this is taking the responsibility of the state for an exceptional or one of the most important sectors in agriculture, which is an important strategic branch of the economy for the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to repeat those data that have been defeated and how much of that resource we've put into operation in ten years. Our agricultural producers are crying out for agricultural land, and under the current law, we haven't had enough results. Through this law, first of all, we will speed up the availability of state agricultural land, increase the use of agricultural land with one basic goal in order to produce more, better and cheaper. You're talking about the strategy, there were some strategies, and as such they were probably in one part and applied. The primary strategic document of this ministry and this government is the program that is being done. We are talking about the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 on which all the strategic objectives of this government, this ministry and my team, will be outlined in and as such implemented. And for her, we will withdraw significant funds from the funds that will be available to us. And once again, the Agricultural Land Agency is something that was founded a few years ago and that should have been working the right way long ago. No, by 2012, we had created an agency structure and we had already started to operate under the existing law about 20 thousand hectares in 2012. Under the new law of colleagues working in that agency, and we are talking about highly trained people who have been in the system and now in the ministry, it is not an institution that has been invented to carry out unlimited, uncontrollable employment but from institutions that are related to the ministry and from the ministry itself are located or trying the most qualitative people who will do the job and who will do it responsibly. It will be measurable, will be controlled and as such will be constantly on de facto control capabilities and on public insight. I think you said that the programme is an economic programme because 60% of the weighting in decision-making refers to the economic programme and that the fate of our farmers and agricultural producers is in the hands of a small number of incompetent people who will decide their fate. What have we had so far? The Commissions and the City Council are also the Ministry, i.e. the minister had a 100% destiny in the hands of our producers. I'll take the opportunity, you've probably read and prepared Article 29 of the economic programme. It contains data on the applicant, a description of the economy, business indicators from previous periods, the purpose of land use and locality, the technological and technical characteristics of economic work and data on the necessary land processing mechanism which is the subject of the lease, investment and employment, expected financial results of the operation, the demonstration of expected costs and revenues, in particular the indication of the ecologically integrated production. The business of the holding of farmers, agricultural production as the primary activity of the call participants, the expert preparation of the callee, the ratio of the number of artificial throats and land at its disposal, the availability of the necessary mechanisms for the planned use of land, the type of production planned, the distance from the land for which the lease is granted, the agricultural production in the system of organically integrated production, the number of employees and planned new employment, the secured market for products intended to produce, the innovation of planned production, the impact on the environment. All the data that every farmer who deals with agricultural production knows about its economy and knows what he is planning to do in the coming period. Once again I appeal to you, don't underestimate our agricultural producers. Those who are truly agricultural producers who live on agriculture and who are well planning their production, which are entrepreneurs in agriculture, are eager to wait for this law. As you list the number of people who are opposed to this law, I can say that there are many more who are eager to come into the possibility not by political ties, not by the very discretionary rights of municipal and city committees, or councils, but by economic programmes that will show that they are really agricultural producers, how they do, what they plan and what they will do. I think some misunderstandings are related to a set of laws that gives 25 years of scientific teaching institutions in the area of agriculture, penitentiary and institution the possibility of renting agricultural land. So so far, we've had a thing under the current law that our colleges, our colleges, our high schools, our high schools that work well and teach children can't get agricultural land. Because we need to mention our pride or discipline, there's no colleagues of Vinkovic, Ergel Djakovo who couldn't get the agricultural land to produce food for her horses. We had leases then, so the mayor won't give us confirmation, so there's no incentive or anything. I think someone mentioned a very epic description for potential criminals, or penitentiary. That they'll ride by, not known in the fields, not they'll work. For example, the valture or Požega, excellent agricultural production, annual production if we talk about dairy beef in the valture is over 9,000 liters per throat. The gardening, the warfare and the rest are well organized. By this law we allow them, and the agricultural institute, and the high schools, and the colleges to reach the agricultural land. I think it's a good provision of this law and for it I will, I will certainly stand behind it with an argument. I think a dear colleague of the twilight mentioned golf course? Well, I didn't expect that from this right side, because under the existing law you put in, or freed the fees completely all the areas for golf courses. If we want to invest, if we are a tourist country, and we are, then we must also enable that kind of development of tourism, but in Article 24 where we listed what was released from paying compensation, we have precisely stated that it is only golf courses in a narrow sense. That part of the golf course that will be used to build the infrastructure of accommodation facilities, hotels and the rest is paid for in full. In order to prevent speculations that some of the esteemed colleagues mentioned, that's where we've made specifics that are much stricter and much greater fees. So far it has been known that the agricultural land outside the scope of spatial plans is purchased for very cheap, cheap amounts, then local administration changes the spatial plan, this land enters the zone and thus generates extra profits. This law raises fees 10 times more for such matters, and if municipalities or cities go for such a re-purposed change of spatial plans, investors or potential investors will pay much higher amounts for the re-use of such land. To bind support to the Agricultural Land Act, i.e. this inquiry by colleagues Buric regarding the deadlines for Arkod, I will correct you a little bit, the year is even more. So we're not talking about 5 months 2013 but 5 months 2014. If we hadn't had 8 years or 12 devastations of agriculture completely much more of this land and the state would have already been in Arkod and there would be already a system of increasing competitiveness. So what we're doing, the basic intensities of this law is to ensure just enough, competitiveness, prosperity to all those serious, real agricultural producers, or to produce better, more, cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29116	Thank you. And now we move to replicas, we have nine replicas. The first one is Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29117	Dear Mr. Minister, we're really prepared for an argument, we wanted it to be by the power of the argument. But when I hear you say as Minister of Agriculture that many are eager to wait for this Agricultural Land Act to prove that you are in that chair, "Fill like the sky and into the ribs." Mr. Minister, you may be as good as a man, I really think you are, you are so sweet, but you are how the minister of a new kind of basic accident for farmers in Croatia. They feared the drought, feared the fight, feared the flood, and feared Jacob. Well, Mr. Minister, after all that you have done in this year and 14 months to Croatian agriculture and the village, from reduced incentives that have already been discussed, from not fighting in the budget at all for the item to be represented, from coming to the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and asking the chairman of the Committee and why the Agricultural Land Act should be on the Committee on Local Self-Government. And you were the mayor of the community. Then it's no wonder we have a bill like this in front of us. Mr. Minister, listen to the arguments we are trying best to give you as suggestions to correct what is wrong with this law in the first reading to fix it until the second reading. And when you say that many can't wait for this law, this kind of agricultural land, then I must say that I am convinced that there are even more of those who are eager to move out of the chair of the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29118	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, that will be decided by the voters in the elections that have given us confidence, not by the likes, in my opinion an unworthy way of communication for this home. I don't think we're co-workers, but I'm going to try to answer this story very simply. You are saying things that do not stand, on that committee I have never asked the President, the Honorable President Vinkovic why, but I have justified the whole debate which I can confirm, or the argument concerning the law, and also very carefully entered all the remarks and suggestions as my associates do and now and we will respect everything that is here, we will respect. We're going to consider all this stuff that's going to be brought out in this house today, but we're standing behind the law that we've proposed. When you talk about problems with units of local self-government and regionally, you probably refer to the issue of those 25% of the funds you had and which Mr Djakic mentioned but forgot to say that all these things that the county did forgot one basic thing, and that is that part of the funds they were obliged to pay in the state budget based on credit. We're talking about almost 110 million agricultural loans that you took as a county and should have transferred in part to the state budget, you didn't do. Your county is somewhere around 7.8 million and Virovitica-Podravska has been made for years, and if we talk about all these affairs especially about the measurement of agricultural land or the setting up of land-book correct procedures and others. In 20 years HDZ has been in your county in power. You haven't been able to do that in 20 years. Significant funds have been withdrawn from gifts, from the EU or the like, and we do not have the situation of land-booking correct procedures, and we will do the same so that we can make quality and good use of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29120	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29121	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that you are insulting the intelligence of the Croatian peasants, but I must also tell us here the parliamentary representatives who we have really prepared and who really most of us have a clue about both the peasants and the country and the agriculture. I'm only interested in your answer to what you're going to say to these Croatian peasants, the family economies that are in mid-May 2013, this year, Mr. Ministers have to report the number of hectares they receive and process and will receive support from Mr. Minister. Anything that will not be processed or not processed after June, and it will not receive Mr. Minister's support, and that will be the situation by 2020. You insult us here today, you want to insinuate us that we think that the Croatian peasant is not smart. He's very smart, he's very intelligent, and that's why he doesn't look forward to your law because most of these articles against that same Croatian peasant. And as for the fact that nothing was done, Mr. Minister, so once you understand the fact that the three most difficult, the biggest chapters regarding agriculture are negotiated, that we've got envelopes. You should just keep working in that direction. So in addition to what's been done, I'm just going to tell you that it hasn't been exploited by you, or by you, so how is it that some tens of thousands of acres of new vineyards were planted, that about tens of thousands of new orchards were planted, that 12 new ice-creams were subsidized, that five thousand new olive plantations were not done for nothing, so that's all in order to join the EU and the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29122	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, please. I understand both the temperament and the harsh debate. But here the minister is only on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government proposing a law, it is not his private law and please conduct a debate in this regard. It's not right for you to go to the minister like this. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29123	So very soon I will repeat once again the possibility of entering the surface in ARCOD is by May 2014. Dear fellow Sumrak, you're telling me that the problem with this ministry and this minister is that we haven't placed more land in 13 months. I will once again point out in ARCOD, the possibility in ARCOD, 890 thousand 262 thousand, the difference has been in the last ten years the possibility of putting into office, making available according to the programmes and enrolling in the ARCOD. In ten years, 600 thousand and over 600 thousand hectares are not put into operation, and you expect us to do it in a few months. We'll do it in a much shorter time after this law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29124	Petar Cobankovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29125	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I have to replicate, you said in your work of exposure that so far the land was shared on the basis of political ties. I think that's a little funny. I'll remind you of the way decisions were made. On a proposal from the municipal committees, the Municipal Council made a decision. The municipal council is a body composed of all political options operating in the space of a local self-government. Whether you were in a position, whether in the opposition, but everyone had a chance to discuss and to participate in the decision-making process. That decision was forwarded to the ministry. Professionals at the ministry were checking to see if this was done in a legitimate way or in an illegal way. All that has been done in a legitimate way has been given the ministry's consent. What was not done in a legitimate way was denied consent and it could not go either to the lease or to the sale. After the ministry, everything that got the ministry's consent and what should have been the subject of signing the contract was sent to the state's attorney's office. Also, all those who were dissatisfied were filing complaints and complaints to the ministry but also to the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's office once again checked whether what was to be signed was in accordance with the law. And on the basis of the power clause, contracts were signed. There is no sale, lease or long-term lease contract where it was signed where the State's Attorney's Office did not give the rule of law. With this law, you're proposing a very transparent way. The decision will be made by the agency, but not by anyone who spoke to the agency on a proposal from three members of the commission, two of which will be from the agency and one from the local self-government unit. Intruder: Thank you./... this is very transparent, it will not be on the political lines and it will be on the dictation of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29126	Thank you very much. Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29127	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said the data on agricultural production for the past 10 years has been defeated. Well, it's incorrect, Mr. Minister. If we are looking from 2003 to 2010, then this information on increasing milk production by 150 million litres, on the number of stables built or renovated, the increased meat production is definitely being denied by this quote. But what happened back in the year and a few days since you led this ministry, in addition to this, is witnessed by the daily decline of the OPG, the reduced production of milk. Now here's my cell phone's gonna start from calls that say up to 30% and now you say you shouldn't underestimate Croatian peasants. Please don't underestimate them. You're ignoring them. So remember when they were protesting in February when they warned about the price of milk our dairy producers, then you said it would be 2.43, eventually it turned out to be a kuna and 90 Mr. Minister, maybe you don't know that. You may not know, but I come from a middle that's an intensive dairy business and knows very well what's going on with that milk production. And of course all these other intentions and when making a milk package where you say you shouldn't make an offer, etc. That's what Mr. Minister doesn't underestimate but leads to such a defeat that you can't remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29128	The reply to the replica of the Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29129	Thank you very much. ... In very short, you mentioned the period 2003, 2010, dairy cattle and the increase in the quantity produced in liters, but you forgot to say that in 2003 there were 65 thousand dairy producers in the Republic of Croatia, and 2010. 15 thousand producers in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the reasons for such a drastic fall is the Agricultural Land Act that you were implementing during that period. The people who were in the dairy beef they produced had no area on which to produce food. This law will change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29130	Let's go with the replicas. On the paper is respected representative Branko Vuksic and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29131	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, it's not a matter of which time in the House you're talking about either the government or the prime minister or the ministers taking responsibility. Every democracy deficit you justify is that you are the government's responsibility. Well, responsibility doesn't mean abolishing democracy. You hire without a competition and you say we take responsibility, you're not even fair enough to respect already acquired democratic habits that are not God knows what to do with Western Europe, but you justify it with responsibility. And how responsible you are to see the government's successes so far. I didn't say that incompetent people will evaluate programs, I don't know if they're competent or incompetent, practice will either confirm their competence or deny their competence. So, I don't know, but I'm pretty sure that's what supermen need, who's going to be one of three members of the board, whether it's going to be more commissions, no, I'd like you to clarify those things and the questions that we've asked us that are unclear. It doesn't occur to us, at least it doesn't come to me, and I believe a colleague doesn't come to mind that we'd like to make your job more difficult. So we're doing the same job to get the best of the law. We read the same law differently from different recurses. You're reading from the position of government we're reading from the position not only of the opposition but of the position of peasants because we've contacted them. What we're saying isn't what we're saying. It's not what we're saying. It's what the laborers think, it's what we're saying. It's what we're saying. And that most peasants can't wait, I don't know I can't disprove you because I didn't do it then we should say the percentage you've been investigating and what 10%, 50% or 60% is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29132	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29133	I thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable fellow MP that first part is not clear to me is that I said that the current composition of the Agricultural Land Agency is most of the employees of the Ministry and the system means no public tenders are being discussed. In the part where we need to fill in the administrative capacity, we will do so in accordance with the Law and call the competition. In this second section where you were talking about how to adopt and competence the commission itself and the composition will only repeat once again that under the existing law these commissions and municipal councils have created a system that lasted from 6 months to 5 years. In this way, the work of the Agency which is important, which manages the exceptional resource, will be able to control the regularity and legality of their work precisely in every step of work in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29134	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is up to the esteemed representative Branko Hrg and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said here today a beautiful sentence which I am waiting to hear from the formation of this government. You said agriculture is an important strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia's economy. I welcome that sentence. I think we could all welcome her and I believe that you will support this on the budget rebalancing with certain figures to make it a truly strategic branch and to take advantage of the potential we have in hiring a large number of unemployed because economic experts say that agriculture is actually the most potent branch of the economy where very quickly and with the least money, jobs can be opened. You also said that so far the work of the Land Agency has not been good, that it has not started to work, so I ask myself why in 14 months of your term of office this government has not started working and that now, by passing this law, we will suddenly resurrect that agency and it will start to function perfectly. It's a little weird for me. Next thing you know, you said that before in the existing law, 100% decision-making had committees, the ministry and the state's attorney's office, and now 100% decision-making will have several people inside the ministry, within the agency and the commission. I must admit that you are a very brave man and I congratulate you on taking such a great and heavy burden in such a business on your back. And about whether anyone is underestimating our peasants and agricultural producers, let's not really underestimate them but in this time of day, since this law has been spoken of, I've never heard of anyone who greets him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29136	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29137	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. I don't think the esteemed colleague Hrg understood well, the agency was founded in 2008 and until 2012 was in some stand-by, resting or inaction. Since last year, since spring, agencies have been working, I said that even under the existing law, nearly 20,000 hectares have been put into service by the agency. The agency will do its job, will be teamed up professionally, quality, honest people who will work, and when we talk about the committees that will decide once more, one member of the local self-government units and a certain part of the process works and runs the local self-government unit itself. The decision-making system on this important resource is something that is the obligation of this government, this ministry and this state, not with the purpose of centralisation, but with the aim of responsible management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29138	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29139	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Honor, I agree with your statement that our agricultural producers are crying out for the country. This is incorrect and indisputable because we are all aware that without agricultural land there is no agricultural production either. However, the statement that serious agricultural producers are looking forward to this law for me is absolutely unacceptable. Who are the ministers, who are the serious agricultural producers? Is this about three, four of whom are hand-to-hand by this law? What will happen to the villages around which this state land is located? She will be devastated, and the few people who remain in those villages will be forced to go to those same bosses to work for a kilo of fat and a liter of oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29140	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29141	In addition, dear colleague, an additional clarification of these serious agricultural producers. In the European Union, they are called active farmers. We're talking about people who live and work from agricultural production, not those who have an additional source of income or a speculatory polygon with support. Unfortunately, out of 230 OPGs registered in the Republic of Croatia, nearly 100,000 are applicants for support. A significant number of those that are not primarily and the purpose of agricultural production, an increase in agricultural production, but support and land speculation for the purpose of support. Unfortunately, we've seen a lot of that stuff all these years. Through this law, through evaluation, the weighting of such an economic programme will be given priority to agricultural producers, active agricultural producers who produce and live from the work of the country, from the work of the country, from agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29142	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, it's not good to start with everything that's been wrong so far, nothing was good, nothing was done. It is true that it is not entirely good and that it is good to pass new laws that repair this situation, and above all that agricultural producers have access to the possibility of obtaining and renting land for production. When you told and described the whole story about how some have so far been enriched by the pre-purpose of agricultural land, then you simply did not read the current law, did not see or was not warned. So I'm reading the 2008 Agricultural Land Act, which has provisions on refurbishment compensation, and twice as much as you've provided for this law. So the public is working, now on today, if the land that was re-scheduled until the entry into force of the law was not within the building area for particularly valuable agricultural land will be paid a fee of 100% of the cost of building land, and you are proposing 50. And for agricultural land what's been 50 so far, you predict 25%. And it is also not appropriate to warn your colleague about golf because, in the previous 2008 law, she is also freed from the compensation for the repurpose of the golf course in a narrow sense, just as you are now proposing, and the representative lady may be pushing for it to be exempt from being released from re-appropriation. And this law also introduces far wider possibilities than the release of compensation for re-use than it is in the existing law. So you're not protecting agricultural land more than you've done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29144	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29145	Thank you, sir.../The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29146	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29147	Thank you. The law of Lovrin, which you mentioned in 2008, also had a series of amendments and additions, and in that part you corrected a lot of things that were originally in 2008, including golf and fees and other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29148	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Josip Djakic and your replica. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29149	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you're saying that this law as well as your current engagement and the ministry's work will be produced more, better and cheaper. I'd agree with you if that's how it is, to see that, that the villagers see that they feel it. However, this is absolutely undetectable and not noticeable since almost everything has been destroyed in the last 13 months. Agricultural production was reduced by 30% only in the dairy sector by reducing and correcting the price of milk you did, not to talk about what other buyers do, about fats, about all other things where they cut them, so they stayed on the beggar stick and had to sell cows to repay the loans. That's your effect. You say better. How can a farmer produce better if you are in his law as an incentive for better quality production you usurped with tax premiums due to non-payment of any tax obligations or non-payment of contributions. So you intervened in a law that strictly encourages payments to improve and quality of production and you say cheaper. Yes, cheaper production is in Croatia's milk and it is competitive in the world is only getting smaller because they can no longer survive these farmers in view of the price that is not certainly adequate for them to repay loans for their stables and their tractors and all that they have bought in order to process the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29150	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29151	Thank you, Mr. President. So, dear fellow Djakic, I will inform you once again that it is not the Ministry of Agriculture that determines the price of a particular agricultural product and so on milk. And since you mentioned dairy, I thank you because the problems and exposure of the manufacturer in the dairy economy are the direct consequence of this Agricultural Land Act that you had and which was the case. Because people who entered large loans, who entered into serious investments, who started with expensive and responsible production did not have a basic resource in sufficient quantities of agricultural land to produce food for their cattle. This is due to one of the causes of malaise in dairy beef. The model of work so far has been addressed through interventions, intervention measures, additional support you know very well what we have negotiated, how we have negotiated and that this is something that is no longer possible to do. Already in this year and last year we had a ban and these measures were not able to implement in this way. Buying social peace and the unpreparedness of our agricultural producers with additional interventions is not an exit for the progress of Croatian agriculture. Unfortunately, for years, we have known what awaits us when we join the EU. I wish that my predecessor, as well as the governments before us, had approached this problem in a better way and prepared our agricultural producers as well as the food industry and the processing sector for better and easier entry into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29152	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the third club, the HDSSB and the respected representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29153	Thank you, well-respected president, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The plan of the Agricultural Land Act that we are discussing is the most important document for the inhabitants of Slavonia and Baranja as well as for the entire Republic of Croatia, i.e. those residents living in rural areas that, among other things, are represented as representatives in this respected House. Agricultural production was and remained the most important business branch without which unfortunately not only for Slavons, but for the whole of Croatia there is no prosperity. After applying a series of interventions and legal acts that were supposed to help the village and agricultural producers where are we today? It's hard to say, but at the very bottom. The peasants humiliated and who knows which way they've been cheated, I'm afraid they don't have faith anymore that the state wants to help them. If this proposal for a law on agricultural land passes, they will also be beaten. The position of the HDSSB is that such a proposal for a law on agricultural land in the first reading today does not deserve to come to a second reading because it has a direct and fully negative impact on the future of the survival of local and regional self-government, and Croatian villages and family farms that daily record negative trends in reduction. For example, in 2011, there was a reduction in the number of agricultural holdings enrolled by fourteen zeros by seven percent compared to 2010. Unfortunately, small farms fail under high pressure, and this bill will make this trend even more pronounced. This Proposal for a Law on State Land only favours centralisation and mergers in the Treasury, the few funds with which municipalities, cities and counties have them and use them purposely through subsidies and support for the development of agriculture. Countys as units of the area, or regional self-government, are the holders of regional development in this area, and together with units of local self-government run and implement development projects in agriculture, since most local self-government units have neither financial nor professional capacity to be the bearers of individual projects. Therefore, the loss of these dedicated revenues also calls into question the role of units of local self-government that will have income and will not be able to implement development projects in agriculture. We in the HDSSB want to point out the fact that such a bill favours only large mastodons and large capital. And who's at a loss again? Agricultural producers who should help themselves, as well as the state, with their work and business results. This law excludes the county from all decision-making processes and what is worst so far invested in the development of agricultural production by the county falls into the water. For example, in the area of Osijek-Baranja County there are about 132,000 hectares of agricultural land owned by the state of which Osijek-Baranja County annually generated revenues of around 10 million kuna, which were directed and fully returned to agriculture through various programmes and projects. A similar story is also in Virovitica-Podravska County, which has 120 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which 52,000 hectares are state-owned. I ask you, what kind of future do you predict of these environments where the basic branch of the population is engaged in agriculture, and you often mention that agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy of the Republic of Croatia? How will units of local self-government in the future encourage people to compete for the country when they themselves lose their rent income to invest in agricultural production? But let us return to the very proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land and what the Proposer intends to achieve by such a proposal. In order to speed up the procedures for the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, the Minister proposes this law to abolish the State-owned State-owned State-owned Land Act because of what has been said to be the ineffectiveness of such a basis for the availability of agricultural land owned by the State. Instead of the units of local self-government that were subject to programmes to which the ministry had agreed and opened a tender for the lease and sale of agricultural land services, the Agricultural Land Agency is taking over. In this way, the minister says that the availability of state land will not depend on the activities of local self-government units but on the activities of the Agricultural Land Agency. And it does not respect the fact that local self-government units have waited up to one year for the decision to be chosen, and sometimes more. It is forgotten that there was a need for data harmonisation in land books and cataster to be made available to state land, which is still not possible in the area of some units of local self-government because of the unimplemented geodetic-catastrian measurement. The exclusion of cities and municipalities from the decision-making process as well as the whole process of implementation of the Programme for State Agricultural Land made by the representative bodies of the local self-government unit leads to stronger centralisation. The question arises how many employees will have to have the agency to carry out the country-owned agricultural land delivery procedures when it has failed in ten years for the 429 municipalities and 127 cities? In addition to the fact that there must be no centralisation in terms of the availability of agricultural land, it tells us also information from a small municipality where the state has proved to be a very bad master. Where, after renting a hectare of land, revenue of 300 kuna was obtained while for the same hectare of land, the municipalities reached the price of renting of about 800 kuna. In this whole bill of law, extremely great powers are given to the agency and it is the impression that the agency is the only one capable of helping Croatian agriculture and I feel that our farmers will view the agency as a sacred cow. In addition to carrying out all the procedures related to the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, the Agency shall also take data from units of local self-government on the application of agro-technical measures, annual reports on the achievement of the objectives of the economic programme, data from units of local self-government on the application of measures to regulate and maintain agricultural mines. If we take all of this into account, it's obvious that there are a number of documents that just need to be received without saying how long it takes to analyze them. Furthermore, Article 27 tells us in detail about the size and power of the agency itself which makes the decision to call a public lease, and the decision to award the leases is made by the agency on a proposal from the Commission for the award of leases made by two representatives of the Agency and one representative of the units of local self-government in whose area the land is located. While the Committee for the Hire of Fishermen makes up one representative of the agency, ministry and ministry responsible for the water economy. There is therefore no representative of the local self-government in which the pond is located. In view of Article 29, which indicates that a participant of the lease call may be a legal or natural person, we can see that the proposed law no longer recognises the OPG and the agricultural crafts whose agriculture is a basic activity and which are placed in an unequal position. It is clear that legal persons have more positive elements to be evaluated in the economic programme. Professional equipment, necessary machinery, number of employees, planned new employment, product market, innovation in production planning, etc. The economic programme is crucial for achieving the right of the championship because the maximum number of points is 60. In such circumstances insisting on the quality of the economic programmes or better putting both small and large producers into so-called ‘. A level playing field leads to even faster decline of small business entities. The following one can now be assumed that if we have an OPG and a legal person who will receive more points for the economic programme. The proposed legal provisions of the OPGs will not be able to reach the necessary agricultural areas for production, in particular, the highlighted problem in the production of livestock in the dairy sector where farmers do not have sufficient agricultural products to produce food. This will certainly lead to the closure of the CAP and agricultural crafts and ultimately lead to the number of 10,000 active farmers as announced. In addition, a two-stage selection procedure is introduced in the case where more persons have the same number of points. If two persons are made equal to the total number of points on the basis of a published public call and documents submitted after the performance process, a public competition shall be carried out, i.e. who gives more. The legislator did not see at all the possibility of objecting or any other form of reaction by the dissatisfied party to the selection agency, regardless of the fact that the decision is not an administrative act. We believe that the possibility of acting on request or appeal by a dissatisfied party should be left. Speaking to people in the field, I must warn you that there is no man of common sense who will support such a bill. Since the HDSSB advocates decentralisation and development of Croatian villages and agriculture, we will not fail our own, but countless times played farmers and we will never raise hands on such a law. And in conclusion, I must stress that this bill by the minister is associated with a popular series of Gruntovians, which turns out to be all agricultural producers and people who are trying to live by hard work from the Dudecki farm, and who... Cinober's making a fortune. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29154	Thank you, too. We have 9 replicas reported to your exhibit. First of all, 3 replicas from your club at the position of your club, the first respected representative is Dinko Buric. Here you are, your esteemed representative, at the position of your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29155	Thank you, Mr. President. That it makes sense to replicate inside the club. Indeed, there is, because fellow Czechs have listed several important things that we point to that which is wrong in this law, but my colleague, Chesek, I would particularly underline and because of, I am glad that Mr. Minister has returned. Three groups, I'd say articles of this law that are particularly unacceptable to us. That is, therefore, that article 3 that defines the agency, then 10, 12, and 32, which speaks about what the municipal and city councils are obliged to do, to give it to the agency. Article 27, which speaks, therefore, of that duration, 29th already mentioned that the OPGs and the most important 44th distribution of leases where you eliminate counties from and centralize, that it's called centralised, by no means, this is super centralization, this is not just centralised, super centralization. You're taking the county to the state. But I would especially warn of the illogicality that will arise when a colleague of the Czechs spoke in this, when it comes to what this agency will have to do? Listen now, you say units of local self-government did not do this well, and according to Article 10, the agency will have to deliver, receive data from local self-government units and the city of Zagreb in the application of agrotechnical measures. So, according to Article 12, the data of the local self-government and the city of Zagreb in the application of measures to regulate and maintain agricultural mines. So Article 32(5) of the annual report on the achievement of the objectives of the economic programme. So now consider how many units of local self-government there are in Croatia, when not all municipalities and cities could work in a satisfactory way. How will only a certain number of people at the agency work? They must be employed what, what, 100, 500, 1000?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29157	There'll be seven of them you choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29158	Thank you very much. The next replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here's from the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of the Czech Republic, so you said well in terms of the right of championship in a 60-point economic programme, so nothing else can precede this economic programme that is actually in the article, Article 29, paragraph 6, actually says that although the OPG does not mention any natural person, so I can't, I simply can't fulfill such a good economic programme as it can, so some legal person, I won't talk about Todorovic and others. The second thing is, it's actually a high dose of subjectivity in the assessment that these three members may have, not to say commission or triumph as it was in Roman times. But what I specifically wanted to say when you were talking about the areas of state agricultural land and other land in the districts of Osijek-Baranja and the Virovitica-Podravska, I will, in particular, ask the question of the Minister later, whether there are 10 thousand hectares of land on the left bank of the Danube, which no one cares about, or the Croatian government, and is named after the catastrian municipalities of the carapanja, kenji, kalandosh, kazuk, adica, shmaguć, peninsula, beast, dragon bitch, etc. In fact, we have witnessed these days that the Croatian government and the President of the Republic have left, including the Prime Minister, and they simply seem to have said that there are no disputes. So 10 thousand hectares of catastrian grant-recorded Croatian land on the left coast of the Danube, 10 thousand orans, forests etc. Is it also included in these areas that are spoken here in this agricultural area, it's not. So what do we do about it? There are still such unresolved problems, they are not problems, for Croatia they should not be problems, it is undisputed Croatian territory. But I'm afraid it's not even included in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29161	And in the end, I told Mr. Cobankovic one time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29162	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29163	... that he is the undertaker of Croatian agriculture, and Mr. Minister will be only rh, add that Hajdukovic says "Alleluja for Croatia Agriculture."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29164	Thank you very much. Replicate reply to the esteemed representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29165	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Oh, we're actually going to be here. There are two concepts that are absolutely unacceptable to me. The agency as some super-powerful organization that will manage the land owned by the Republic of Croatia and this economic plan. If some corporation has employed experts from the agricultural profession, food-technological, legal, economical so that the small, let’s call it conditionally a small agricultural producer to be able to meet a quality economic plan, or a better quality than such a large producer. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29166	Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29167	Thank you. We don't need to be surprised this replica is sometimes the supplement absolutely. As for these statements, the Minister. He asked me on the board what he was doing in the informal part of what this law does on the Committee on Local Self-Government, but this is less important than the situation in Croatian agriculture. You mentioned the distinguished MPs one famous Croatian series and Dudek and Cinober and I remember another Croatian series Where Wild Pigs and That Black Term Goes. Now the black deadline of this law and Croatian agriculture is just the Minister of Agriculture. That best shows and he's not an ad homine. This best shows the situation in Croatian agriculture. Almost 60% of cattle farms are closed. By 70%, the livestock fund has been reduced, incentives have been reduced. As complained with the EU, this is the second issue, investments in agriculture have been reduced by nearly a billion and a half kuna. That's enough to say what's going on in agriculture and what we're doing. So here we export two billion 246 thousand tons, import 2 billion and 251,000 tons of food from agricultural products. For what we import we pay 2 billion 168 thousand dollars, so more, we export more interestingly, and for that we get a billion and 355,000 dollars. So we export practically our organic production for twice as much of what we import. And this law is certainly a law written for importers and for those who will be undertakers of Croatian production, Croatian villages and Croatian family economies and our minister acts as if he died and stood aside from the processors and not the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29168	Thank you very much. I can conclude that Monteskie and the spirit of the law do not live in the Croatian Parliament. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Damir Tomic and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29169	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, Chesek, I wrote down a whole page of things I'd like to tell you, but I'm only going to look back at the key ones. You're hooking up all the time that County's losing some income, ten million kunas you mentioned. Where did that money go? I assure you, the second-largest Đakovo in the county didn't even get the million that would at least belong to him from these ten. That's what I assure you. Next thing you know, you've been moaning at 60 points for an economic program that's a perfectly normal thing, and it's not 60 points, but up to 60 points. It's interesting that you never once mentioned these 20 points to previous owners. And I talk to people on the ground and in the rest of Croatia they think it's a good measure but believe in Slavonia they don't, you know why? Because of those sheriffs who shared the country with their hands and hats, the three-year contracts extended to the limit, and now they're going to have a head start on this. You understand? Slavonia is a little different after all. Next, the agency? Mr. Cobankovic, since you're interrupting me, I'll tell you that too. The law you have passed and applied has not been signed by any of the proposals made by the Đakova City Council. You only signed those municipalities where HDZ was in power. Meanwhile, it became HDSSB, so they dealt with the country. That cost you a little bit, but let me finish with the agency. Because of this law that was so bad what the minister says below 30% of the country is in a function that should have been resolved by this law. In this way, the local self-government of the agency, namely the commission, appoints one member to control the work and speed up the work, which I am convinced of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29170	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Igor Cheek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29171	Dear fellow Tomic, I am very glad that you are coming from Osijek-Baranja County, so I am not aware that you are not aware of the fact that this very Osijek-Baranja County is the financial asset that has come from the rental of agricultural land that has just returned to the development of projects in agriculture. Are these irrigation projects, are they the rise of years-old plantations? If you are interested in something more detailed, the doors of Osijek-Baranja County are open to all and these data are publicly available.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29172	Thank you very much. We're going to the fifth line and the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29173	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Czechs, from your discussion, we could hear a lot of hard words but very small or no concrete suggestions to get rid of some things better. So I'm going to try to answer some of the argumentable things you've brought out. For example, the lease fee referred to in Article 44(1) of the proposed law has been settled in exactly the same way as so far in Article 74(2). The agricultural land law when it comes to long-term leases. There's no difference. There's no difference, colleagues. Furthermore, as far as disfellowshipping local self-government is concerned. Well, there's no exclusion from local self-government. It is the local self-government that initiates the launch of the lease process and, as counterpart Tomic described very nicely. He participates and oversees the work of the agency. Furthermore, as regards the OPG and the economic programme. Exactly the OPGs because of their size are often more able to adapt to the market and offer often much better programs than large mastodons. I come from a county that rests on small farmers, which rests on small agriculture, which rests on organic agriculture, which started right from small producers and therefore I am sure that in my county it will be those small producers who will offer the best programs and get the highest number of points. And I'm afraid your opposition to your party's opposition to this law is that it prevents the manipulation you've been doing on the ground so far. Just that and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29174	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Igor Češek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29175	You mentioned to your colleague that I said a lot of hard words. No, I gave the facts. I told the facts and the truth that by any chance I live in Pula the question of whether or not you would be involved in the proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, I would likely be involved in the farming and fishing of tuna. And you will be able to participate actively in this debate when you come to Slavonia and look at the way people live in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29176	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29177	Well, an esteemed colleague of the Czech Republic has injured Article 214. Rules of Procedure when he insulted all those honest Istrian farmers who have worked hard for years and handled the Istrian country. Like I don't think it's allowed in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29178	We're hurting the Rules of Procedure. You have the possibility that you colleagues can ask the board of directors to evaluate what I said. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, who's more important or who's earlier. Make up your mind. There is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29179	We're in HDSSB equally legally... So I'm asking in accordance with Article 214 that here you finally give a warning to Parliamentarian Paddy Grbino for what he said a few minutes ago that this law will prevent manipulation and alluding to HDSSB's manipulation of people. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So I think it deserved a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29180	What's hurt is what you say. Tell me what hurt his colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29181	He hurt HDSSB's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29182	What provision?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29183	All representatives of the HDSSB club. I don't know if you heard that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29184	By what provision of the Rules of Procedure, which do you call upon?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29185	In accordance with Article 214(4) of Regulation (EC) No 214/2006, Article 214 is He demeans or insults the president or other MPs. So I'm talking about the current Rules of Procedure not the new version that hasn't been published in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29186	Thank you very much. You've exhausted your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29187	I'm asking you to give a warning. If there's any evidence that someone manipulated people in the O.P.G. on agricultural land, then be sure to report it to the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29188	Comrade Vinkovic, thank you very much. We heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we He didn't hurt me, he didn't hurt me in his own step, I hope he didn't hurt anyone. ... I'm sorry, buddy, I read what he's calling for. [[You don't understand what you're saying.]] Thank you very much for such a qualification you really deserve protection. He's a friend of Buric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29189	Thank you, Mr. President. The breach of the Rules of Procedure concerns Article 214(1), subparagraph 5, in which I call on Mr Peja Grbin to stand down and to conclude that the HDSB's representatives oppose this law and because he prevents the manipulation that we have been dealing with so far. That's how he hurt not you, Mr. President, but our other agents. Therefore, a colleague of the coat of arms would be really appropriate if you too were to control yourselves, to start acting in harmony with our conduct. You see how we respect the Rules of Procedure, more and more, no more or more than ever. And I ask you, Mr. President, to respond to this kind of action because it's an insult to an agent, the HDSSB Representatives Club. He said well, Col. Vinkovic, if you have any proof to the competent institutions, otherwise don't lie to the sword if you can get killed by the sword.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29190	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric, you're wrong, unfortunately, not now. No, but it's a good thing you're referring to a new standard representing your club. It's good to hear the public and parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much. That's why very well, new standard. Let's move on. 6. Replica and respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I could tell my colleague that you insulted all the representatives present here when you said that your party exclusively represents farmers. I don't think the farmers voted exclusively for you to give up your right to all MPs who were elected here regardless of which side of the assembly to speak and the problems of agriculture. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, you are always quick to bring declarations, which is what I am witnessing most of the meetings of the County Assembly can confirm, which bring different declarations but you are not proposing any solutions as you are now. So I wonder if then your party, taught by your past experiences, will at least how you've worked so far, reward successful farmers by buying them flags? Who are you to deny your colleague's right to discuss agriculture? Then why are you discussing shipyards, why are you discussing shipbuilding? You're talking about elementary disasters for Croatia, for Croatian peasants, so I'm telling you that one of the most important disasters in Croatia is called HDSSB. And I'll tell you why, and I'll tell you why. So don't be ashamed of it, you say for your own, you just throw out two words, just for your own pockets. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29192	Comrade Hajdukovic, your opinion of a party may be correct but cannot be presented without argument. So don't do it. I won't give you a warning, it doesn't help a warning if it doesn't help. Don't work for the party to qualify whether it's an accident or a hit. And secondly, there are no MPs who have exclusive right to anything in the Croatian Parliament. You know that, so don't use it. Each representative represents general Croatian interests. Its position can be different, it can also be local, but from the general common Croatian interests. Thank you very much. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. No, you've already taken advantage of it, so you can't ask for it anymore. ... It's in the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on. Josip Djakic, a respected representative and seventh replica. ... I'm sorry, reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Igor Češek. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I haven't seen, I'm sorry, I haven't seen. He didn't even see the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29193	You will be very disappointed after 19 May, while you are going on very offensively in the campaign, as you can only see the door of the county as a parliamentary representative or citizen of the city of Osijek, or Osijek-Baranja County. I have noted in the debate that we represent the interests of Croatian peasants, that we represent the interests of peasants Slavonia and Baranja and we also represent the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are in an invisible position. The game of the case is exactly the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja your guilt and the guilt of the previous governments is the most damaged. Your guilt and the guilt of the previous governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29194	Okay. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29195	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues of the Czech Republic, you've been well aware that the competitions have been held in our municipalities, the competitions have been held in the Ministry for 13 months. It's destroying peasants, it's working against the village, it's working against production, it's disabling the acquisition of incentives, it's saving in the state budget as ordered. In our county, I can say that there are 4500 hectares of land that carried out the tender, and they have no contracts. We were at the minister's, and he was asked by these Pitomaca commissioners both from Suhopolje and Canjavica and from... to allow them to produce these people on their plots, to achieve incentives. Until today there is no answer, but therefore there are those in this law who will be able to rent or be in... when the size of the particle sold is no greater than the particle owned by the applicant. So whoever has 100 acres, and next to it is a 95-hectare plot, they can handle it without any problems, it'll be a priority for rounding up. It's raising strict capital, it's treading small in favor of large, it's destroying the village. And, Mr. Minister, the peasants are telling you don't have to buy you a black tuxedo and a hat to be a real undertaker of Croatian villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29196	Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29197	Comrade Djakic, thank you for your rep. It is indeed clear now to all of us why the minister stopped the state land from being available to the government by coming to power. It's because of this law. So we had to wait 13 months to get into the first reading, it's been 13 months since the state land stop regulation entered into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29198	Thank you, too. And the eighth replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor. He's gone. He's losing his right to a replica. The ninth replica and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29199	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MP, yes, you have said what is being transferred to the Agricultural Land Agency and according to what is provided for by this proposal, the Agricultural Land Agency should become one of the most powerful I would say to the institution, the agency in the Republic of Croatia. In order for her to do so, she will have to have significantly greater capacities than she has today or what she will be able to have in the near future. All that is stated in the agency's work requires a significant number of people. In its time and law of 2008 it was a similar direction regarding the establishment of the agency, and then, as well as the restrictions on employment, we did not accept and go, so we reduced something by amending and supplementing the existing law. But in this way, from the units of local self-government, local self-government units chosen by direct elections are exempted from something to give to someone who has yet to be formed, who has yet to strengthen their capacities. And unfortunately, here we are now in a situation that practically 13 months have passed since you arrived, just as much has passed since you stopped implementing the applicable law, this law has to go to another reading. After the second reading, they agreed that the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts that are inappropriately large in this law is 6 months, which translates to mean that practically two years nothing will be done on agricultural land. At the same time, I remind you that this is the period when Croatia will already be in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29200	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29201	I agree with you completely and can conclude that there will be a huge wave of employment in the agency, a huge wave of employment of party-like people. As much as they'll be professional or not, we'll judge through the next period. However, what is very interesting and I must return to that economic programme, that is, the economic plan. How many of us, or the minister, as much as he expects economic plans in the agency, and how these plans will be evaluated. So who will judge them? I assume that this agency should employ at least 10,000 people, preferably party people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29202	Thank you very much. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the Club of Representatives, Independent Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29203	I'll talk the way I do. A good part of the Buzecans, and I believe a good part of Istriaan feels when it comes to agricultural land. God forbid someone imputes me to speak for everyone, not one piece. So, keeping in mind what happens in Istria when it comes to the sale of agricultural land this law, I dare say it comes too late, but still in time to stop a reckless abduction. One square meter of pasture, exactly 1000 square square feet of pasture, is sold for 1000 kuna or for 5 pikes of Ronhill. 1000 square squares of vineyards or the best oracles are sold below 2000 kuna or 10 pcs of Ronhill. One word one square meter equals one cigarette. And you will agree with me that this practice should end. One square meter of state-owned agricultural land to be more accurate is sold for one kuna, and when it comes to private property three years ago it was sold or the average price was about 12 to 14 euros. It is realistic to say that agricultural land in Istria is sold 3, 4, 5 euros per square. I don't mind farmers getting to the ground. In fact, let's give them land to process, let them have land. They must have land. We can't expect the peasants to be responsible for social policy in this country, that they run the social and care for the Croatian poor, because that's how we make the peasants social. I repeat once again, the peasant must have, must come to the ground, should not be afraid as someone says a rich, powerful peasant. Let's look at Austria, Italy, what I know about Slovenia, etc. Let's get him to work. But I'm against having the country sold out in such a way, that the state on one side is poor, and that individuals are rich. I'm gonna say one more time, the farmer has to get to the ground, he's got to get to the most favourable loans on the market. You don't have to pay any interest. There must be an incentive, a market, a ransom, but all that can happen if we rent the country to a peasant. I absolutely don't mind the peasant rounding up his property to some small plot, garden, garden, courtyard, to reach some service over some plot, to the access road. But the existing laws were also conceived in a way that parallelly with a peasant to the ground were also mixed up. I talk about them all the time. So we're pretending to sell something to the villagers, to give them something, and in fact the substance in that country is being drawn by the mechanics. Here's a few cases I know. A golf case in Savudria. Individuals bought land for two kunas, then sold for two hundred kunas. So you're not going to tell me now that it was in the interest of the state, that the peasants were behind it? No, the butchers are standing. The state may also give the country to me as a peasant, but if someone decides to sell it, they would have to offer it at the same price to the state, not to earn it in the same way as at some point taking advantage of the opportunity. That's the point of what I'm talking about. Clearly, I'm saying all this because non-agriculturals are coming to the ground. I mean officials, I mean public system directors, etc. They buy for one kuna, buy for two kunas, take over the land for ten years. They open or create Latifundi and increase the value of their properties by millions of euros. Cups for 100,000 kunas. It's worth a million euros to them tomorrow. And they're funny now, they're smart now, they're psychic now, and everyone else who doesn't participate in it is naive, silly, and I don't know what. Where's that? There's probably in Istria, there's probably something in Dalmatia, there's that in Slavonia. In one word, there is only in Croatia. I am deeply convinced that this is not the way to dispose of the land in either Austria or in our neighbouring Slovenia, let alone what I know in one Germany, France etc. Individuals, what I said before in one replica get the same hunting ground, they get hundreds of acres of agricultural land just because at some point they're standing at the head of certain brigades, etc. They're taking incentives. After that, individuals also receive rents. You understand what you're doing with the ground then? In one town in southern Istria, individuals come into possession of 20 acres or more. Not even they're builders, women register as farmers, etc. They've been depositing people who've been working that country for decades. The whole middle rises to its feet. They're not friends, MPs have nothing to do with that environment. But they know that after Croatia's entry into the EU, those who have the country will control the space, and through space for sure processes, money and everything else. And then some government will urbanize that land that's being sold today and someone's going to pay something for the kuna, and in fact, by square, they're going to get a table or I don't know how many euros. And then for a thousand or two thousand lands, a two thousand squares particle for itself and for theirs to simply solve existence. And instead of talking about it, what is it? Then the permanently bullish citizens against the Government of Vis-a-vis of some forest land which DORH registers at the expense of the state, but what I now want to believe today is that this council conclusion is at least in one large part, not entirely, because it's really absurd for someone to register on the road what I know about the Pazin Cave or some cemetery or something like that. But let's let it go now. However, what is certainly important is this Article 74(1). – sales and lease procedures if a tender for sale and lease is announced by 31.12.2011 under the provisions of the old laws will be completed according to the provisions of these terms of the law. So, based on this article, tenders for sales and leases will be carried out according to existing conditions. It bothers me, however, that this land can be sold after ten years. I advocate that according to the same conditions by which we buy land or those buying land under the same conditions, the country is offered to repurchase the country. Does anyone even know how much this agricultural land will get after 1.07, after Croatia joins the EU? I mean, excuse me for those seven years when we lift that ban on selling the embargo, etc.? Tomorrow, when local commissioners are unable to professionally perform their functions, it is mentioned that 300 will no longer be able to behave professionally, urbanisation will become an exit variant, for example for earnings. So this law, in my opinion, is a logical way out of Croatian waste, abuse, wealth without work. I've always been a peasant, I've always been and I've been for a strong local government, but nobody's going to convince me that regionalization of a thousand-foot meadow for a thousand kuna, that regionalization of the sale of vineyards for two thousand kunas, that the sale of orchards of a thousand squares for two thousand kunas is equal to local self-government, that the sale of olive groves for two thousand kunas is equal to local self-government. Is the wealth of non-agriculturals a local self-government? It's not. Is it when a man buys something for one kuna and then resells it for two hundred kunas always in agricultural land status to strengthen local self-government? It's not. And when it is urbanized, it is resold for a hundred euros. It's not a local self-government, it's gentlemen to me insulting peasants, past generations of work and generations that the country has acquired. Our Istrians had to go I don't know Australia or go to North America or South America, dig those canals, build skyscrapers, squirm forests to come back to make one barn to buy two acres of agricultural land. And now somebody buys that barn for ten thousand kunas that offends me, and then two acres and someone's worked ten years to get to those two acres for twenty thousand kuna. That someone then puts in 100,000 euros, the state still gives him a pool with all that and then resells it for five hundred thousand euros. And on that he pays yes, five times five as many as twenty-five thousand euros in taxes. That's what I object to. For strong local self-government, yes, for a strong peasant, but let's not insult ourselves with common sense, especially in such a way to those who live on that land. That's the point, let's be fair, so let's all fall apart together, but let's be fair. Not someone to simply get all that property without a job. What's also interesting is this article, just to find it, 79. — the purchase price of the contract in the accounting sale of the leases, the merits compensation, the concession fee from the contracts concluded until the entry into force of this law will be re-valorated in accordance with the regulation referred to in Article 45. That's what I'd like to be explained. Article 17, however, speaks if, within 15 days of the adoption of the draft final proposal of the Spatial Plan of the Great City, the City, or the municipality, does not agree, it will be deemed to be in agreement with the draft of the proposal. That's probably good, let's start working. Article 22(1), I think, at least to me, needs to be clarified in some way, that for agricultural land which is located outside the boundaries of the construction area on the day of entry into force of this law, and after the change of the spatial plan is covered by the boundaries of the construction area, the amount of compensation shall be set at 25% of the market value of that land within the construction area's borders. When does Mr. Minister pay that fee? Is at the moment of adoption of this plan that might be e.g. And against my will or in a moment, now I wanted to tell you what my father once told me, neighboring parcels urbanize and ours don't, says you see I won't be able to drive home hay. Oh, yeah, they really made them unhappy. They'll sell it for 30, 40 euros per square, and your plot is worth nothing. But, well, that's it now. Or will it be at the moment of construction? Of course I'd be in favour of agricultural land once more I'll say managing local self-government units. Absolutely, I've always talked like that and I'm talking right now. But to frame that state of this House, and to be fully entrusted to the units of local self-government. It's a 50-year lease, and I think it's a straight deadline, and getting foreigners so far is correct, but how come strangers can vote in local elections, they won't be able to buy land? In seven years, they'll be able to buy that land. I wish it was a little longer, but I don't know who negotiated it? But good. Article 30 here talked about the right of the Championship to call for rent, and spoke the economic programme up to 60 points. The previous owner, as well as in peaceful possession up to 20 points, etc. Itd. I think this could somehow lead to deposits, and that's not good, that's what I'm afraid will happen in Istria, that should be considered how to regulate it. Maybe a peaceful owner should have up to 40 points, I don't know the program to be 40, 20% to be a price or a third, a third, a third, a third. So I am for this law, this is the first reading. Let's not play games with depositors, as it happens. You always know her for now someone says so the state's attorney's office gave a positive opinion, it's all by law, it's by law that a thousand squares of meadows go for 5 pikes of Ronhill, it's by law. Now, if that's moral, we'll simply see it or ask the builders who can't get to that land, and I agree that we should make sure there's no employment in that agency, and I doubt they'll be able to avoid it eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29204	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Several replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's go in order, first replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Cain, you have repeatedly stressed in the debate that you are in favour of strengthening the role of regional self-government and that is something that we all agree with, that is something that has also been written in the programme of this unfortunate government in that Plan 21. That they're going towards decentralisation. However, agreeing with all those who say that agriculture is not something concerning only Slavonia and Baranja. We are aware that this concerns the entire Republic of Croatia, and so is Istria. However, when we warn and point out what is particularly harmful to farmers Slavonia and Baranja, because agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, above all Slavonia and Baranja. Then we warn Mr. Minister of Article 44 as one of the most controversial units in the area, or county, of regional self-government units, of the counties is taking away those 25% of the revenue so far because it will hit Slavonia and Baranja the most. Do you know that of all these revenues is in the 25% that are now going to go to the state budget, 80% of all those revenues from the 5 Slavonian-Baranja County. And then who's the most damaged here? Well, Slavonia and Baranja, you don't need to be particularly smart. And we have reasonedly appealed to the second reading, it is good that it does not go into emergency procedure, until the second reading there is reason to analyse and that Mr. Minister thinks well about it, there is no reason to change the current model of distribution of funds especially given that the counties and, in particular, Slavonsko-Baranja County of all these 25% of the funds have purposely returned to agriculture through various programmes that I have already talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29206	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29207	... The income goes to that local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to say once again, I'm absolutely a peasant, I'm absolutely for strong local self-government, I'm not for the practice of certain cities or municipalities, that's what I'm talking about. They buy mayors, buy mayors, buy mayors, buy directors, buy directors, repeat I'm a peasant. I am for a peasant, but I'm not that one square meter of agricultural land goes for one kuna, that a thousand squares go for five pints of Ronhill, for that I'm not. I'm not gonna sell one square for one cigarette, that's the problem. I agree with you, Mr. Buric, that Istria is not Slavonia, Istria is neither Međimurje, Istria is not Dalmatia. In Istria you can buy one square meter of state land for a single kuna, but no farmer will sell you square meters of land below 4 or 5 euros, that's what I've been talking about all this time. The average price in 2009 was 12.9 euros, too, but it was 12.9 euros. I am for local self-government but fair. What are the county revenues? I have to admit that I don't know, I don't know, but perhaps in Istria these are marginal incomes I agree, in Slavonia they're probably big and they should and the basis of the law simply takes care of. In my opinion, it was never a problem for a peasant to buy something, let him buy something, but it's a problem if that peasant buys something and then resells it for 200 kuna. That can't be the intensity of this law. And especially the problem is if a non-agricultural buys 1 square for 1 kuna, then resells it for 100 euros tomorrow, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29208	Thank you very much. Both a new replica and a respected representative, Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Cain, here I have listened to you carefully, I must confess that I did not understand your position under this law, it is both for and against. I don't know if it's because of your new independent position, but simply your attitude towards Croatian peasants is unacceptable to me. You're all over them to buy a cheap state land and resell it for no idea how much more money. This may be possible in Istria with you, there may have been individual examples, but the vast majority of Croatian peasants do not. It's a natural symbiosis of peasants and land, not to buy it to resell it, but to produce it, not to admire it, but to produce and survive it. It's a natural position, and I don't understand what you're saying here recently about Puris and yelling to save that company, and that's the one that we call him, let's say a mastodont or a combination that deals with livestock, which is exactly the kind of law that goes into service, and then you're stuck by the owners and you're saying it's not good, how it destroys an Istrian peasant. It's that position, and I'm afraid your people are supporting you. These tax hike policies and the reduction of Croatian incentives remain without farms. The fact is, we lost a few thousand farms in a year. What do we have left in the end? We'll be left with the farms we have on the facebook there. Croatians have virtual farms on facebook worth several million euros, but they have nothing to do with them. Absolutely nothing of them can live, Mr. Caine, and that is why it would be good for you to make it clear whether you are for this bill, to whom it goes in favour and to whom it goes in damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29210	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29211	Yes, I am for this law. Here's a categorically speaking, I am and I'll say the same without Puris there's no little peasant. There must be about 300, 400 cooperatives at Puris Station. That Puris is in bankruptcy today. That Puris needs to run. He had 305 employees. On the day of bankruptcy, there are now 160 of them, and in 2001. In the years until they started mixing with HIPO banks, there were over 900 employees. Over 900 and maybe 1,000 cooperatives. That's actually what this is about. So it's safe that we have to save Puris. Well, there's no mother, so it's the largest agricultural so-called company in Istria County with Agrolagun. When was I for bigger taxes? Never. Why don't the peasants have land? Well, that's because the butchers pulled that land right under their noses. Istria is specific absolutely 30, 40% agricultural land. As the state came into possession or before, local self-government is so-called. Optantic property. So the country was paying war damage and they were supposed to be the ones who owned it, who left these premises damaged by the Italian government. It's clearly a state country today, but now that country's selling a wake for what? We have peasants who are brothers of these people, who have been in peaceful possession for 50, 60 years. They continued living here now based on the former law to be deposited. Let's not do that. It seems an injustice to one layer of people and that injustice I think such a law as it is not ideal but it is fortunate that in the first reading it can certainly be corrected and that it can help those who live from their work and that it will also help that farmer Puris or that worker in Puris and that cooperative of Puris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29212	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29213	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I'm glad that you discussed it from the point of view and the area and the area from which you come and perhaps in Istria it is, but when laws are passed they are passed on to the whole country. Each section has its own specificities, and so does the Agricultural Land Act, and I agree it's not the same situation with agricultural land in Slavonia, it's not the same situation in Istria, but I need to remind you of some things. That according to the applicable law, the available schemes were made by units of local self-government, that the law could also protect Istria from the sale of agricultural land. I also have to remind you, of course I think you're forgetting things very quickly. Now you've turned the page a little bit and now everything that was before was wrong, and you've been if I'm not mistaken for five or six terms, Istra's parliamentary representative from part of the IDS, and IDS if I'm not mistaken, one 95% has a local self-government unit in Istria, and you're also not only a parliamentary representative but you've been a highly positioned party official. You could have influenced local self-government at the time so that the accent in the programs wouldn't be sold. I agree. It has certain specificities. Someone buys land, changes the spatial plan, it enters the building zone, and here's your fortune, and I agree with that. And when we were in the ministry, we were doing the same thing. Unfortunately for us in Slavonia, Srem is rare when someone will buy the land and change his spatial plan by entering another area so that he can get rich. It's not going to be too much now and the little entrepreneurship zone and the like where the potential, we just don't have a real investor, you know. And that's what I'm saying, maybe you've forgotten some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29214	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29215	Mr. Cobankovic, I have long remembered in those five or six terms as you say. And I agree with you, it's not the same in Slavonia, it's not the same when we talk about agriculture in Istria, it's not the same when we talk about Međimurje and when we talk about Dalmatia. We need to be more honest. True, it may not have been a problem for the government as much as the local authorities, it's not the problem of the IDS as the individual's problem. Just one mistake you made, the IDS of 42 local self-government units in the last local election didn't win 19, so 43 yes. In one Pula coalition with the SDP, in Pazin with the coalition with the SDP, we won the county. Absolutely a peasant can help. It needs to be given land, it needs to be given incentives, it needs to be regulated, it needs to be connected to this blue, I don't know green Croatia, it needs to be regulated, it needs to be created, it needs to be opened, etc. do not mutilate it with new taxes, do not scribble it with new taxes, do not ask that the peasant solves the country's social policy because he will turn into a socialist whole village, so he will ultimately have no use for it. But I'm saying at this point, the peasant is the same if you sell him land, well, maybe it's not the same thing as renting the country so he can work, and he can work. If you want to work here, here's the lease for 50 years, so you don't pay anybody anything, I'll give you a boost, I'll give you everything, that's what it's really about. Let the man work, let the man have it, don't be afraid of that rich peasant, because finally the whole country has a lot of use for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29216	Thank you very much for your answer. Let's go to the next replica and honorary representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, this is brilliant, Mr. Caine. .../The speaker is not included.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29218	Please engage, dear Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29219	Excuse me. Whether you're funded by some cigarette company you mentioned 10 times is probably not enough of SDP's finances, but also these. So what you're saying, no one understands you alive. You're telling the peasants that he's not responsible that we can't expect him to do it at all and then finally to the specific question of whether or not you're in or out. I am, but I'm not. What election are you going to?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29220	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29221	My dear lady, if you hadn't gotten behind Mrs. Kosor or I don't know who else you wouldn't be sitting in these benches unlike me. So much for who they're choosing or whose election they're going to. I'm not funded by the Tabaka factory from Rovinj or TDR, be assured not to, but I'm 20 kuna how much one box of Ronhill is costing me one more time I'm going to mention them, for calculating something simpler than mentioning Malboro.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29222	Dear colleague Cain, for you are in the House or colleagues or respected representatives, free yourself from the qualifications of Mrs and Miss or Miss however you please, let's be correct with each other. And something else is not forbidden to speak of, of course, the representative about anything he wants, can therefore not be called to criminal responsibility or to be detained for it, but there is responsibility for the spoken word whether it is in the Croatian Parliament or not. For every word spoken, there is a responsibility. It can be moral, it can be character, and it may be you've experienced it, responsible for the damage. Well, I'm asking you to hold on to that. And now for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't know if it's wise to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure for such a representative who has been walking the truth for years behind the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29224	Your Honor, you could've helped me and the others. Which consists of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... It's an article, but what does the injury consist of? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29225	Insulting and disdaining the representative in the Croatian Parliament, that is item 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29226	Thank you very much. I think we've solved everything in the best democratic way. We got a warning. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, you have already exercised the right. I don't know what you're having an injury to right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29227	Read to me, Mr. President, that I used the right to injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29228	Read it yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29229	Read the current Rules of Procedure, and when you publish it in the National Journal, then I will abide by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29230	Your Honor, I'm giving you a warning. You can't speak until I give you my word, it's just between us undeniable. Please object to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we will discuss this. Now please allow us to continue the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29231	I'd only ask you to warn the MP if he didn't advertise tobacco products is that forbidden by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29232	You got a warning, we can move on if you want. Okay. Next replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29233	Thank you very much. A fellow Caine may have some future cigarettes bearing your name from this factory. But I wanted to talk about the tax increase you were talking about, and the reduced incentives are therefore not satisfied with Istrana or Istrians, but neither in Slavonia nor in Srijem, nor in Baranja. I think you understand what I'm talking about. You said that the land is cheaply bought by mayors, mayors, but Mr. Caine, as far as I have information, they buy through some other persons, so third parties don't say so by parliamentary representatives and ministers, and then also when it's done for example. about some land in the Municipality of Pokrkalje, and the Catastrian Municipality of Glogovica a man who is 80 years old as a third party buys for the second or first person 110 hectares of land, and later it will be a golf course. So you're saying no one can come from abroad and own agricultural land. So how can you even talk about it or about a moratorium for seven years when we already have such examples? How did that happen? So some foreign company buys our company that owns agricultural land. Of course he bought all the facilities and facilities, but then he came into possession of the agricultural land. It won't be possible to sign up for maybe seven years, but after that, yes. And I still wanted to tell you, you say seven years is a moratorium, but there's a possibility of extending that moratorium to another three years. So that's what's agreed with the EU. But what you're saying is that very often you're used to telling powerful men, I'm not going to say who, I'm not going to say names. It's easy to determine, everyone in their neighborhood has one. In the Municipality of Andrijevci, Novotoplje, in the Municipality of Bukovlje are also on behalf of others, and then they are taken and thus used and the museums of this country are used.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29234	... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29235	... I know you're not thinking about me, just like you just said. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But why am I in favor of the law? among other things, we put the agricultural land in place relatively "quickly". If it is wrong, and it can be wrong, so everything will not be ideally done, but the damage is far less than simply sold. No problem I'll say, for the third time, for the fifth time, if a farmer buys for 1 kuna agricultural land, the problem is if it's sold or resold for 200 kuna or I don't know how much. The problem is when some bought 2 kunas for the red top, reselled for 25 to 30 euros, blackmailed the investor and everything else. Someone's gonna say so let's make some money now, strangers invest, but they're not peasants. I wouldn't even feel bad about them, but they're non-agricultural. Can't speculate on state land. If the state sells it to you for 1 kuna then offers you that land for 1 kuna so she can decide whether to take it back or give it to you and provide speculation. That's what I've been talking about all along, and I think the vast majority of the public understands me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29236	Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29237	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm a little confused too, buddy Cain. [[Intruder Cain: As usual.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29238	Please engage yourself, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29239	I've been used to watching you represent the colors of IDS for years, and then all of a sudden, you're an SDP candidate...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29240	Please don't rule out a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29241	That until after the May elections, you will certainly have a new option to set up. I'm even more confused with your debate, you're a little bit of a farmer's thing, you're not a little bit of a farmer, so no one can underestimate them, so you're for rounding up agricultural areas, etc. And now you're talking about some experience where you say that for 1 kuna it was sold and then for some pike, etc., and at the same time you're breaking the health care law and a number of other laws. And I wonder where the state's attorney's office is, which was what worked if it was in it. Furthermore, you spoke from the position of Istria and you give certain examples of yourself, and I can say from my environment from which I come where there is almost no agricultural land, where there is almost no land, there are some 70 hectares that are chadranous, which is not of any quality. And now he tells us that it is possible, that this law will allow competitive agricultural production. So when there is no, and it has developed already certain production, there is no, and competitive agricultural production enables both the support and the incentives, of course, and the re-promatter that prices went to the sky, not to mention blue diesel, without talking about the price of milk that you have allowed to lower milk prices to the lowest possible limits, side of such a manufacturing industry. It's a problem, too... that it doesn't have. I don't feel any local sheriff...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29242	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29243	My dear colleague, I'm not confused with your statement at all. Your performance is expected, messed up, almost ridiculous. But I ask you once again if there's anyone in this House who would sell his thousand squares of oran for a thousand kuna or for five bucks of some cigarettes. It doesn't matter, five bucks a cigarette. ... I don't mention the name Mr. Cobankovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Would any of you do that? No, you wouldn't. If someone came to your house and asked if you'd sell me that necklace for a thousand kuna, you'd probably call him a mechanic, call him a hypocrite, call him a profiteer, call him a speculator. One word, either you'd get up or you'd drive him away. I also agree with the county's incomes, let everything be left to them. They need to be strengthened, they are poored, they are in the same problems as the poorest and local self-government units, small municipalities. You can save, I don't know, maybe he's in the county, there's no need for some of the expenses to be the way they are from Istria to probably your crusaders. But I repeat again, there is no one who would sell his thousand squares for a thousand kuna or five pence of cigarettes. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29244	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29245	Well, fellow Cain, in your presentation, you mentioned a strong local self-government. Either I don't see it, or I can't read it, where in this bill, you read the role of a strong local self-government. And at the same time you say you're up for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29246	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29247	Yes, I am, I am normal for strong local self-government. If someone asked me what this local self-government in Croatia should look like and how it should be regulated, how it should be formed, about...... There's nothing in the law, it's first reading, I want to believe it's going to be in second reading. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But if someone asks me how I picture local self-government about the way it was defined by the '74 constitution. when these communities of ours were so small under the quotes of the confederate unit. But why do I stand for it? Because I'm aware that the more decentralised the country is, the faster it develops, but if at the local level, the land-mixers are clearly against this practice itself, and it needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try very briefly to refer to the last two club presidents. First of all, from Mr. Honorable Representative of the Czech Republic, because a series of inaccuracy has been carried out, it is implicated that a reduction of 10 thousand OPG has been announced, I do not know who announced it, but responsiblely argue that neither I as a minister nor my team nor anyone in the Ministry has ever bid on the number of family economies, but only with an analysis of the current way of enrolling in the List of Family Economics 230 and a few thousand family economies, about 100,000 applicants. I am much more interested in making those who are active farmers, who live on agriculture, competitive, that they are in a situation that they can produce better, more and cheaper. Because of them, this law is like this and designed. And I'll make one more thing right for you. You were talking about a regulation forbidding the minister's availability. A little more information in preparation wouldn't be bad, because we're talking about a January guideline last year that just explained how the law works. I will repeat Article 54(2) of the current law to you that the units of local self-government that have not begun to operate under the programme that has been passed more according to the existing law and cannot and can't move these jobs to the agency. And that is where I will refer to this part that the esteemed colleague, Cobankovic, and some of you have stated that the Agency has not worked. 262000 ha is the total area that has been put into operation for 10 years, an average of 26.2 thousand hectares per year. In 2012, the Agency worked over 20,000 ha was placed in office or sent to the DORH for consent and 6000 was at the final stage of the preparation. That's what made 30 employees in the agency. So much for being prepared whether the Agency will be able to work or not. Because all these years ago, 10 years ago, so the local self-government units were working, the Department of Agricultural Land, a whole huge machine. Now the Agency's numbering 30 members. Under the new law, 30 more employees of the Institute of soil are to be given very soon in Osijek and are not used enough, extremely professional, but not used. Under this law, it will be joined by the Agricultural Land Agency. Is she an important institution? Yes, as well as the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Agency for Agricultural Land and State Property, or as it is called in certain EU countries, an extremely important Agency with great responsibility. It'll be the Agricultural Land Agency as such. The taste of everything I read or what I read most as the problem of the HDSSB club's position is actually this article that conditioned 25% of the funds that have so far been the source of income to the county, and this proposal 50:50. This is the first reading, and there's still room for some things to agree on. But I would also like the argument that we who come from local self-government units know that municipalities and cities are doing most of the work, and really in that part other than some space rental county in the whole process has done almost nothing. I would also like the requirements of the county to be, above all, what I have said to respect the financial obligations they have to the state budget relating to agriculture on the one hand. And on the other hand, I would also if we were to talk about centralised whether it was convenient for the requirements to come, for example, in the water economy or irrigation where almost full amounts of funding come from Croatian waters, or from the state budget, that those requirements also then go with the financing of a part of the county of 15, 20 or 25% of what you said. And I am obliged to answer to my esteemed colleague, Kajin, a few specific questions he has raised when re-appropriation is paid. Article 21 speaks precisely, on the basis of an implementing act approving the construction or receipt of the confirmation of the main project. Unfortunately, I think that in this debate, too, and we know that in the design of spatial and spatial documentation and spatial plans of the unit of local self-government were quite optimistic in the potential expansion of its construction and business zones and much of the agricultural areas are now in these spatial plans whether in the building zone or in the business zones. This law also allows the value of agricultural land to be put into service, i.e. leased for up to 10 years until a potential investor is found who will start working in the zone. The moment we have a defined entrepreneur who will invest in the area after harvesting or harvesting after harvesting is taken into possession and the investment itself begins. We currently have a dead capital that is located in numerous business areas in too many building areas and is not used for agricultural production. And I think the second question that was quite significant is the definition of revaluation of the value of the rent. It's something that's been an integral part of past laws, but unfortunately it's never been consummated. We completed this article, i.e. as such and kept it in the law because of the positiveness in, in some way, increasing the equality of participants in the competitions which bought or received agricultural land by different models available in different time periods or only clarifications. There are different rules that applied at a certain time on starting prices for certain available ways, and then you have great disproportionateities for even the neighbouring units of local self-government for individual agricultural land ranging from several hundred kunas to several thousand kunas for renting almost the same land. This measure of the possibility of revaluation of the value of the leases we will actually make more uniform conditions, i.e. all agricultural producers that have agricultural land in some way available to make competitive compared to... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29250	Thank you, Minister. We have five replicas reported for your exposure. The first is replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29251	So here's the esteemed Mr. Minister, several projects co-financed, which representatives from that county who come here to the Croatian Parliament don't know about soil analysis, co-finance defence protection against fighting. There is co-financing of ULO freezers, co-financing of others, artificial sensations etc. etc. Now let's not list all these programs that are financed from these 25% of the funds that are going back to agriculture. But it's not the only problem with this law that 50-50 percent allocations. On the contrary, we're asking that countys or regional self-government remain 25%. The basic problem with this law is that local self-government is being expelled from the whole decision-making process. One representative of local self-government who has so far done all the work and making available to agricultural land, tendering, decision making, and even incidents on the ground. But I'm asking a question about how some local sheriffs, what do they conditionally like to call the mayors or mayors, past the state's attorney's office, who was the last to bless could have given some thousand acres or don't know how many? The basic braker in the entire process is exactly the Ministry of Agriculture, both the former and this. Because all completed tenders stand in drawers because it is the ministry that is afraid to issue or not issue consent from various interests. You are also aware of this, as you were aware of Cobankovic, as Pankretic was aware. And most of the cases when the ministry issued consent were politically similar, not according to the competition. And there will be objections in every contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29252	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29253	Thank you, Mr. President. So it is very clear throughout the procedure from the initiation, i.e. the preparation of documentation to the commission's participation are involved members, i.e. representatives of local self-government. The difference is that it is no longer a decision exclusively on committees, i.e. municipal and city councils. All through the process, members or representatives of local self-government units are fully involved, and for this, they usually receive 50% of the compensation, i.e. local self-government units. And it's in their best interest to put as much as possible. How well they did or not, I said again that there are very excellent examples where local self-government has done everything right in the short term, but how we will justify 74 municipalities and cities that have not even brought in a programme of agricultural land, and of those 400 and something that has been brought in by a large number at all, it has never consumed and has never called a single competition or available land as such. 650 thousand acres of agricultural land is off-line, we haven't put it into operation in 10 years. Through this law we will put it into function.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29254	Next replica and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29255	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Well, I'll fix you up a little bit. You mention some 10 years of law enforcement. For your knowledge of the law was passed in 2001, the basic law, these were all subsequently variations on the same subject very similar, the basic concept was adopted in 2001. So, during the coalition government of the late President Racan. It was a very similar coalition only that he was HSS in that government at the time, and today he's not, and there's both HNS and HSU and what I know. All those pieces of liberals who stayed and joined the CNS. And then the same thing happened to me, which I'm afraid will happen and now that it was practically waiting for the sublegal acts to be passed, that then certain implementing acts were waiting and that the practical application of that law didn't begin before 2004. Now in 2012 you stopped law enforcement in part of what is in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. In the meantime, you have received already held tenders that were held as a rule in 2011 and they are waiting for consent. Some who came before you sent that famous one, I'd say a clue, and I could ask you a question, is it normal for the law to be annulled with the minister's instructions? The law is the law as long as it's the law and should be applied. But at the same time you're carrying out what's in the department's jurisdiction and it's a long-term lease. And you're conducting contracts for long-term leases according to the available programs. There's no problem with the available programs and there's a certain one you've spent. On the other hand, I was just asking for an answer in writing. [[Intruder Leko: Thank you.]] I'd like you to pass it on to me and tell all the MPs 20,000 acres I'd like you to pass it on to us to a coma and how those 20,000 acres were solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29256	Thank you very much. You've extended a little bit. Replica reply, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29257	Yes, the first framework law to be respected by counterpart Cobankovic was from 2001 and that was the law of the coalition government in 2000-2003 in which the ministry's portfolio was led by the HSS, which your coalition partner was in the next two mandates. So here we have one sequence of management and agricultural land and the implementation of a good agricultural policy that has increased agricultural production, made it more competitive, made it cheaper, reduced the dependence of imports on exports and so on. No, unfortunately not. We can tie up now and the market arrangements system and the support system and the amounts and the rest. In 2004 I will once again say 262 thousand hectares whether in 2004 to 2011 or from 2001 to 2011 that is the amount of hectares that you have put into operation by the existing law and the versions of that law, from 890 thousand in total.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29258	Thank you very much, Minister. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29259	Thank you. The Honorable Mr. Minister, however, I repeat this first reading makes sense again, so we hope that the proposals that come independently from the ranks of opposition or position, the opposition, there is no proposal yet to come to your ears and hope that you will seriously consider them. You asked for an argument as to why the 25% should remain in our opinion for the county? Here I'll give you an example of Osijek-Baranja County. For us, it says, colleague Cain asked what kind of money it was? 12 million kunas almost a year. While 3.5% of the total budget are huge for us, but all that money is Osijek-Baranja County as well as all Slavonian Countys whose agriculture base was returning to the economy through various fostering projects in agriculture. I'll give you just a few projects, you asked for arguments, why it should stay. So, we've implemented a ground analysis program, channel network editing, geodetic-catastrian change, project documentation of the national irrigation programme co-financed by the county with 20 to 50% depending on each project. Therefore, that too comes into question. It is becoming questionable, therefore, and the implementation of approved projects under the IPA programme in which the county also created a co-financing obligation, participation in this co-financing. If we run out of these funds, I'm not just talking about Osijek-Baranja County, I'm talking about all five Slavonian-Baranja Countys for which these 25% you're now taking away are made up of 80% of all the funds that will be taken away from the county. The greatest damage will be sustained, so Slavonia and Baranja all of them. And if these projects, I agree with you, if any of the limes are accidentally spent by those funds, then I'm in favour of abolishing it, but none of them have ever been spent in vain or will. We return it to our farmers, farmers, small OPGs, not large, but to every Croatian farmer and peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29260	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative, Honored Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29261	All these projects you mention for Slavonia-Baranja County, respecting the importance of agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy, is a perfectly normal way of investing budget funds, not only these but probably some other original funds you have in the budget and expected. I'm just saying that the state as a good master of what it has and someone who manages well and manages vision has done some things in previous years, then county but also municipalities and cities wouldn't have to use any of these funds at all. Now we're talking about a geodetic-catastrian measurement that's been stretched for 20 years, but we still don't have the condition of the cadastre, the grantines, the state of the field. Unfortunately, it was a prerequisite for any good management of agricultural land and state, and 70% of that private land that we had arranged the condition of the cadastre, the grantine, the state of the field. This is done in part, individually with the funds that we in the good part had to finance, while the central government unfortunately did not do so even though it provided significant funds, pulled gifts from funds or the like. We will now have to do in that part of the irrigation investment, in other words, significant funds are invested exclusively or entirely from the State budget funds in the protection of the water economy or the like. So, I won't say and I won't respect, I don't respect, I won't mention at any point that they're unintendedly spent, but I say we do a good analysis and see what we do next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29262	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honored Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29263	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, Mr. Minister, I noticed your claim that this law is passed because of those active farmers who will produce better, more and cheaper, so I noticed. But unfortunately, it doesn't stand. I come from an environment that has no state agricultural land, it has something in small, very small quantities of almost no quality, and we have achieved respectable agricultural production in dairy, livestock. Of course, they've already failed one number, the production of milk has fallen, and unfortunately that's what it says about your activities. Furthermore, yes, it is certain that this production has also contributed to the support that, here, for your term of office, has fallen for whatever you're going to do, by a billion and a half kuna. And not to mention that in the meantime, the price of the repromation went to the sky, not to mention the price of the energys that are the same. So I'm asking you, what about the blue diesel? Is this the last year, Mr. Secretary, the Blue Minister? But the most painful thing about it is the price of milk, the price of milk, Mr. Minister, which was warned by the milkmen in February and so on. In 2012, Regulation 261 of 2012 states that milk farmers should be provided with sustainable economic development of production, thus ensuring an adequate standard of living for farmers in the dairy sector. Also, this same regulation says that the ministry can ask the buyer to make a milk package, and the ministry obviously does not accept this model that the buyer makes the offer, so please tell me what, in that sense, does it not smell like a certain bias of the dairy industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29264	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29265	I thought today in this honored home we were talking about the Law on Agricultural Land, not the complete problem of the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I will also mention operational programmes, and raising a new farm, and livestock production as an important segment of agriculture as a whole, depends on agricultural land. If you had allowed people who entered major investments to have sufficient agricultural land according to conditional throats, they wouldn't be in these problems that we are in today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29266	Thank you very much. Fifth replica, last replica and respected representative Valter Boljunčić. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29267	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm getting... on yours, so what you said about the guideline is that... it stops the social land from remembering in 2012 and I think this is a good example of how a good law like this has, first of all, a personal message that centrally manages from one place has repercussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that year in Istria there was a series of demands from winemakers, you yourself know how famous Istria is for wine and olive oil that wanted to expand its plantations and move on. However, while awaiting this law and what will happen until the EU's entry, up to 1.7 is unlikely to win the country, and after that we are already in the quota area. So this could be one opportunity where in the last year, in some way, vineyarding in Istria, which is a very important branch placed before the final act. And I'm saying that's exactly how you see it when you want to manage something from a central place that's natural at a local level. The land is in Istria and people in Istria want to master it. The other thing is, a few times since this law was announced, there's one thing that's really starting to bother me. And the basic role of this law is that crime is done in all the municipalities that have divided the country. If crime has, then there are state bodies who need to react to it. Once again, we as IDS are strong to ban the sale of land. So that's not at all at all, but if it was a crime, it had to be prevented and then it had to be said where it was done, and not that I would say it's even a lie to throw at all the local administrations and self-government. I really ask you not to talk about it in general because there are representatives here who were members of city councils, county and on the one hand and on the other, who were raising for the purpose of this land and I am sure that many of them were doing it with a desire to make their local farmers better. We are particularly sensitive in Istria. I've got later, so I'll catch up with you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29268	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29269	Thank you, Mr. President. My esteemed colleague, I have not generalized for one moment and I have said that all the mayors, mayors and commissions or city councils and municipal councils have done wrong or against the law. Put the phonogram back and you'll see. But I said there have been cases of abuse, of poor work, of intermediation by other criteria that are not economical for the development of agriculture but rather with very different intentions. As for availability, it seems to me that you had a problem in Istria, most of all with that final part, which is the consent of the DORH. Yes, decisions on availability. I think that there was the biggest problem and I will only mention it once more and call on Article 54(1) and (2) of the existing law, which says: "The units of local self-government, when the law enters into force, adopted the programme and did not have the agricultural land owned by the state under the provisions of the law, are obliged to do so by 31 December 2011 at the latest. If they don't make it available to the agency." After 31. On 12.2011, those who did not start to dispose were no longer able and all those who had carried out the procedure, opened the tender and all related from the competitions further under the existing law continued to be made available to state land. There will be plenty of time to show that this law will be much more effective than the existing law and that we will put a larger amount of land much more significant than previously in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29270	Thank you, Minister. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It's up to IDS Club and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Your Honor, Representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29271	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Today before us is actually the first in a series of laws we are discussing and about which we want to discuss and concerning the strategic development branches of the Croatian economy. For the Agricultural Land Act, I am primarily interested as a parliamentary representative, but I must admit that both sides and colleagues, but also with the presence of the minister, it encourages me to say a few words as mayor of Rovinj by the basis of which the local self-government unit was, in particular, one of those cities that brought among the first to the Republic of Croatia a programme for the availability of agricultural land and that, in relation to the positive legal provisions, it was strictly defined for the category of leases, and today, on behalf of the club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, I will present a brief review of the views and conditions under which we are prepared to support the said law. At the very beginning, I would like to say very clearly that the IDS Club advocates a clear view, that the country should be given to those who live and create the land, who process it in a way that they preserve it for generations that follow and not speculators who see only their own personal and short-term interest in the country. For me, politics was never an impression, politics was measurable, concrete and visible discipline. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would kindly ask you, I would like to give an explanation that I will really not take any discretionary rights, but I would personally like to say something to the minister. Here's the sixth one I did on behalf of the club today. There are more than thirty of us, and as I said at the outset that this is the first law and that the following laws concerning the strategic development branches of the Croatian economy would suggest that you take each discussion as one lobby of ideas, that you listen to all of us in peace and that in the end you think very well, because I hold that we have to talk solely on the basis of arguments, based solely on the facts and that we do not invest unnecessary energy to defend the unsustainable. I would therefore like to say, at the very beginning, that since 1990, the said law has experienced 13 changes to the essentials of one decision that has changed and one regulation means 15 major changes and 5 technical changes. If, throughout the debate, it is imputed and discussed that the narrow throat of the unit of local self-government is those arguments that just now the level of state administration has been a narrow throat of the implementation of the Agricultural Land Act. Something that has been said today, and in public very little has been said that the Minister's regulation has suspended all procedures for the assignment of state agricultural land. This is the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament and this composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has blocked the procedures for the assignment of state agricultural land for a year. This law says that it will have to be adopted afterwards, and it seems to me, within six months, additional sublegal acts. For the next six months, there is no allocation of state agricultural land. We are not here and there is no purpose for ourselves but I believe that trust has been shown to us by citizens and that precisely because of them, and especially because of Croatian farmers, we have an obligation to do the following, and these should be the objectives of this law. First of all, to be a quality, the second one to be a implement that finally wants agriculture to become one of the strategic branches of Croatian development, and I would suggest that we, on behalf of the IDS Club, urge it to stop the practice that so far existed that, after the adoption of the law that we are all long waiting for, there is a later waiting for the adoption of non-implementable regulations that are very dubious and unequivocally. Secondly, I would like to say last Friday that we all unanimously supported the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Montenegro I would like to say that today we are talking about a strategic branch, the beginning of whether the direction and the positive energy that has not so far contributed to the growth and development of Croatia is finally being launched in another direction. I therefore believe that we should not be divided to the left or to the right or to the middle, but that we must achieve what is already the degree of consent because that is the only guarantee that this law will be enforceable. The third thing we honestly have to say, we're masters of a more complicated situation. This is why I want to make it clear that this law has to be simplified as a matter of fact because according to the law, land status does not change except in exceptional situations, land is not sold and therefore the only one who has to do so is municipalities and cities, or units of local self-government. And the 4th thing I want to emphasize here in particular, but not because it is 4.a, I actually think it is important, and there we have to pay very much attention to the rules that due to the credibility of both this law and the future sublegal acts towards the Croatian peasant, they are protected maximumly and that they are brought into a subordinate position neither today nor tomorrow. With such a form of sound legal protection for our farmer while avoiding any form of bargaining for their damage, the IDS Club supports and considers it to be the best side of this law that excludes the Institute of concessions and sells already retains the rental institute and in any case we will unequivocally support and hold that this is the good side of this law. However, we, at the IDS Club, also want to point out what a lot of words have been about today on the key, bad side of this bill, and it is predicted that the agency is implementing the land allocation which, in other words, is in relation to Plan 21, which is why I am part of the coalition, which is why I am both warmly and heartily and sincerely set out in the last parliamentary elections, in fact with this proposal instead of the announced decentralisation for which the Istrian Democratic Assembly has always been a step towards even more centralisation and such a pre-centralised state. It's not good and it's the key point of this law. This will certainly further slow down the land allocation procedure, but the victims will not be us, the victims will be farmers who will suffer these consequences. Without the basic means of working, farmers cannot run for incentives, they cannot run for EU funds. We're waiting for the law, we're waiting for the right one, we're going to pass the entire mandate, and we're not going to assign a single hectare of state agricultural land. The IDS Club advocates and wants to make its maximum contribution through this law, with the view that the procedures for granting state agricultural land are maximum simplification, that the land is placed very quickly in the function of agriculture and that jurisdiction is left to municipalities and cities. One thing is certain is that the operator of activities in municipalities and cities will be primarily immeasurably interested, more motivated and competent to carry out the procedures of assigning land to fellow citizens and citizens than any employee within the agency. Let us stop red tape from one satellite office member of the agency that can be moral, ethical, professional, competent whether he will be from the office without even seeing the country, and we have very different situations than Slavonia where the complexes are large, and in Istria small lands fenced with dry walls make correct and good decisions. By accepting such an attitude to lower the level of authority to local self-government units, the state level of government would show full trust towards local level, show concrete and not declarative, but the local level would take responsibility for itself and directly bear the burden of all obligations to develop an important strategic direction, to develop agriculture. What would happen to the state level of the administration would primarily focus on the strategic thinking that today in the Republic of Croatia, which the gentleman seemed to be telling me, we do not have them, and we must conclude that the strategic thinking of this society is chronically missing. On the other hand, the state level of administration would release if it transferred powers to local self-government units of its resources, it could focus on adopting concrete strategic programmes, concrete measures, to move forward with a more quality infrastructure programme, building a more quality infrastructure. What's going on? We come up with more production, we come up with more productivity, we come up with more competitiveness, the simple state level of administration needs to be free of all excess activities. And I would like to say, we all live together at a very difficult time of crisis and state level and regional and local must be causally and ultimately bound, there must be trust and we must equally bear responsibility and we must bear equal obligations. Earlier, he mentioned one question that I did write down by Mr Vuksic, whether Croatia will have enough food. There will be a fight in the next period. But let's ask ourselves then whether today's state-owned agricultural land is or isn't using its potential enough. There's not enough potential to be used. Whether or not to put it into production function should. Whether or not to be placed in the function of producing healthy food should be. And that would contribute to the competitiveness of our agriculture, and thus also in tourism which... but in tourism depends on financial stability and the state budget. That's why we advocate that we should make the procedure as simple as possible and put it in the jurisdiction of the municipalities and cities. And now I'd like to say one more key thing to me. I, indeed, can understand both the Minister and the complete composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from both human and professional and political levels if there is a burden with individual negative examples or unacceptable forms of behaviour that have been brought out of practice so far. But I believe that this must not be a burden to us if there are such, but it is an obligation for us all together and together to make an effort to define even clearer rules, and if we are to install legal fuses in supervision, whether by the Ministry or by the attorney's office, which I am simply not seeing in law today and to leave to municipalities and cities to do this job. The IDS Club advocates clarity, transparency, accountability. We believe that the enforceability of this law will be only if it is left to the local level and it will actually be a concrete measure announced, colleagues and colleagues, so much needed decentralisation. Economic growth locomotives, economic recovery locomotives are not state-level management, they are local communities. Give us a chance, show us confidence, we are ready to take that responsibility because in this way, I will repeat, farmers will and will come to a simpler and faster basic means of work, they will get the conditions for obtaining incentives and for running projects for EU funds. And I'd like, regardless, that we're very little in the assembly today, to say the following. This 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament has no number of commissioners, commissioners, mayors, mayors, deputies and deputies and I ask myself a question to myself and not to all of us by reducing the value and importance of other colleagues and colleagues, who are not. Do we today, and tomorrow when we are no longer parliamentary representatives or MPs, when we decide on this issue of decentralisation di we do not ask money, we seek responsibility and shows that we are ready to take over and contribute to this very important economic branch. Whether today or when it is voted on, we will raise our hands for decentralisation or we will support even more rigid centralised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29272	Thank you, too. We have 2,4,6,8 replicas reported. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29273	Honorable fellow MP and mayor, absolutely for decentralisation, but not only decentralisation of powers but also for fiscal decentralisation. The current ratio is 97% in favour of the state of all tax revenues, all taxes, 3% heading towards local self-government units including the City of Zagreb. That's embarrassing. On the other hand, what is expected of the law, here reading the Prime Minister says that tens and tens of thousands of hectares were divided away from the eyes of the public. Which was done by the state's attorney's office, which was done by legal Croatia in all of this. Or that this law will prevent the mixing of agricultural land. Whether it was mixing because this law does not know the land of particular interest for local self-government units because the programs provided 5% for the development of local self-government. Is mixing when the local self-government unit in its spatial plans for development and local self-government has designated one part of the agricultural land for development for some other projects. Is that a mix-up? And this is another appeal to the Ministry, and no agency can replace the local self-government because whoever works at the agency, and they have to be 500 or 600 to make this whole deal, they certainly don't know what the situation is in Đakov, what is the situation in Rovinj. A peasant in Slavonia and a peasant in Istria live just as hard, however, in Istria is a little more purchasing power one four times the population than in Slavonia. But that led to centralisation of Croatia, centralisation. Both for free and Regional Development Funds and the Ministry of Regional Development I'm done. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] That applies to you, too. It's a waste of all those funds and the Ministry of Regional Development when we sink every day. Thank you. [[Upadica Batinić: You are finished with your colleague Vinkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29274	Thank you. Next replica Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29275	Thank you. My dear colleague, first of all, I'd like to thank you for the proper debate. So this is a debate that is constructive and that directs and suggests here I am glad by the ruling majority that some things should be changed. You said you would if I remembered correctly that the law was quality, but it was also enforceable. When we too warn of things that are wrong with this Law, we are not just talking about Article 44. So, about those 25% of the funds for the county, but we are talking about exactly the things that question the enforceability of such a law and other parts, which is exactly giving the Agency for Agricultural Land not only jurisdiction, but also the obligations in such a scope that it is simply impossible for everyone to do so because of this particular scope, because of everything you have prescribed through Article 10, 12, 32, 35, it is impossible for them to do so. And it is true that the key solution to the start of all problem solving in Croatia is real decentralisation. And as it is said not only to the municipalities and cities and counties, but also to the funds. You asked, Mr. Minister asked in his debate and the question so let the counties then participate in irrigation projects financed by Croatian waters. Yes, we could easily do so if Croatia were not one of the most centralised countries in Europe. My colleague Vinkovic said 97. 92% of everyone's funding ends here. 4% to all municipalities and cities alone. If we had more resources, we might as well be involved. So, I welcome your debate because she's on the right track. The key should be left to municipalities and cities to decide on the lease, and support and funds for the counties as well. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29276	Thank you. Next replica Boris Kovacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Representative Giovanni for the debate I almost fully support. It seems to me that today you were the first to mention the problems in which we found ourselves coming from the local self-government unit, so you mentioned a narrow throat in the state administration. I assume you were referring to the ministry or something, the competent ministry of all these years. You mentioned you were coming from the city where one of the first programs is and we're in a similar position from 2002. But that narrow throat, you know, when it's a narrow throat, it's still easy to get through it with a lag. I object most to creating a negative atmosphere, climate, false hopes especially for small farmers, and in fact this whole time it's been about protecting someone else. That's what we need to talk about, too. We've had it all lately. Of course I also support decentralisation, but I don't think we're going to bring her down, so we can't take her down while we have a communal system like this. Are all local self-government units capable of doing so? I don't think so. For this reason, I will also support the provisions of this law relating to the activity of the Agency, etc. I am in favour of full decentralisation, but I think it assumes and re-designs, i.e. the crucial reconstruction of a completely communal system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29278	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29279	Dear Mr. Vice President, as well as my colleague Buric, I would actually support the courage with which the distinguished representative actually pointed out some of the problems in this law that exist. We're used to nothing but admire those in the coalition. However, what he mentioned is crucial, and this is despite the swearing and decentralisation programmes of Croatia, this is a very clear and very hard centralisation of the system. Therefore, the country in Istria, Dalmatia, will be decided exclusively in Zagreb in an agency that will be a super-structure extremely powerful with incredibly great powers and obligations. The money will be shared. A significant part will also not remain in local administration and self-government units, but will come centralised, so again centralised. The same agency will decide on the price even in some cases of land, it will say what is the market price and what is not. She'll be able to sell it with a direct contract. Legal and natural persons will eventually be able to buy a neighbouring plot of state property, but if it is smaller than what they now have. And that, as well as the fact that everything will actually be based on projects that will, of course, be much easier to prepare and more thoroughly, than family economies, clearly befitting those great ones. In renting the country, this particular project is a key criterion and, of course, the chances of someone buying it are nothing. Because they can be founded, for example, by the pasture communities to round the country, but family economies can't even make a joint offer to rent a parcel that speaks again in favour of the big ones. Therefore, centralization and guessing are large things that are certainly not good in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29280	Thank you. Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sponza, in fact, here's how you touched us all in the units of local administration and self-government of fellow Commissioners sitting here in the Parliament, and in fact, saying that the implementation of agricultural land allocations should be done by units of local self-government, not by the agency, which is true. Because that's how things are actually centralized. Things are not only centralized by this law, but by many others before this law, and by those who will come after this law. And I'm going to add something else, what you said was that actually a smart government should think strategically about agriculture and agricultural production because food is actually a strategic product in the whole world today. That's how it should be in Croatia. And that should support this law, this should be a fundamental law, a law on the allocation of agricultural land to which, as you said, you will also attach to the Strategy on Agriculture, that is, the Law on... land, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29282	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Sponza and I agree with your debate and this proves that we who come from the local self-government unit think alike and that we are no sheriffs but to think therefore about the needs of those we represent and, of course, with respect that each environment has its specifics. Of course, the ministry and the minister should know that. But you asked one question, which was spoken of by fellow Vuksic in the morning. Are we going to have enough food? I'd like to extend that question so I'd say if we had enough quality food and sufficient quantities for the food industry that is a significant factor in our country's economic life? If we continue at this pace as it begins, in addition to the extremely reduced quantities of milk, milk production, meat, etc. We won't have any, of course. But we'll probably have if we think about importing that powdered milk, so these milkies will become mixed milk if we think about it in that sense and then it's tragic. If you think about those half-terms that expire and then come here, then that's the most fatal thing. And in that sense, you should think the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29284	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about the role of local self-government, or what it should look like in practice. You also mentioned the decentralisation we already have when it comes to powers, but we don't have financial decentralisations. But that's less important now. But it's important to listen today to all the speakers who have spoken exactly who comes from practice and who isn't from practice, right? So all of us who come from local self-government are more or less in agreement about how this problem should be solved. But unfortunately, we're too few in this house here to be the majority, and to make it easier to deal with this problem. A colleague, Kovač, mentioned earlier that among the first ones, he also solved the problem in his county, you and I in Zadar County also have 97% in the land. So, even so far, the law has not been a hindrance to me to keep this agricultural land out of operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29286	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. Here you are, Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just brief remarks on the club exposure. All the time, the concept of centralization, decentralisation is mentioned. The existing law is an important resource for which unfortunately a good number of municipalities and cities did not have any administrative or technical or human or professional or financial capacity because of the structure and little resources available to us, which we heard had under the existing law the possibility of having an important resource that we should not have. Personally, I would be happier if some other rights and powers as well as the financial resources of the budget were put down to local self-government units and that agricultural land was available as an important resource or the most important resource was immediately set up in a different way. When we speak or criticise the Agricultural Land Agency, we should also appreciate the fact that agricultural land agencies work in all EU countries for the management, control and availability of agricultural land. I won't repeat that the entire procedure includes representatives of local self-government units, so I'm starting to repeat myself more than once. And another clue you may have heard or perhaps not well enough pointed out that the Agricultural Land Agency would be set up regionally. I said most of the agency's employees, what we have in the system, and we're going to put that into function. And how we're going to form or how we're setting up the operation of both the ministries and the agencies, and I'm going to refer to some of those remarks that were that the economic programme would be too complex and too complicated for our agricultural producers to make. They will be able to do it, and additional assistance or service will be an advisory service, will be employees of the agency and ministry. There will be no officials who have been so far, who have sat in offices and not been in the field among people. And the Agriculture Advisory Service and employees of the agency will work in a completely different way for the next months and years than it has been practice so far, regional organisation of the agency itself and precisely defined ways of business. The criticism in advance that sublegal acts, making sublegal acts, that is, the entire availability process will take months, so let us check with time. Most of the sublaws are in the works, in preparation and until the second reading, i.e. the adoption of laws in this respected home will be ready for publication and will be followed. You said yourself, clear transparency, efficiency is the fundamental objective of this law and we will achieve that by its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29288	Thank you, Minister. We have three replicas. Giovanni Sponza, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29289	Well, I'd just like to look back on this speech of yours and first of all say that it's a little bit of a surprise, not only but it's such a tough attitude that it's the body of the agency that wants to speed up the agricultural land allocation process now. I'm surprised mostly by the fact that you were a local leader in your municipality before entering this honorable function of the Secretary-General. We lack a few things in Croatian society. First of all, we have no self - respect and faith in ourselves. Secondly, what I have pointed out so far is positive energy, which was almost not too little, has contributed to growth and development and society, and in particular to this single branch of the entire economy, especially agriculture. The agency, I didn't say anything against the agency, I said only one thing, impossible, regardless of what people are competent, moral, ethical and responsible won't be able to do. I'm mad at my people at the city administration when they make a decision from my office based on something they haven't seen in the field, but I'm sending them out on the ground. Different situations in Istria are specific both from the city to the city, or from the municipality to the municipality, let alone from Slavonia, Dalmatia, etc. Therefore, your argument is completely impenetrable and your argument is similar to the following which is present in Croatian society, which is that we deal with bad school students all the time, and instead of supporting and giving attention and supporting those very good students. Here's your attitude and this example with my answer and attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29290	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you have now said that regional offices and agencies will be established. It has already been said here that there will be a sure increase in bureaucratic apparatus, that new employment will take place, and we know that we should implement structural reforms and reduce bureaucratic apparatus. And he's being doubled again, and as is said here now in the local self-government services that he's doing and all other jobs are doing this job and there's no increase in the number of employees. So I can't accept this interpretation. And what's more important here, how does the agency work? You know how the agency works? Here's an example of a case from the Crosses last year. One of the buyers of state agricultural land sent that request to the agency for purchase or consent to sell the land. The agency kept quiet for 30 days, the Law of Administrative Procedure, the silence of the administration, the man sold the country. In the city no one had any idea, so does the agency, so does what's far from the eyes, so does what's far from the scene. And there's one more thing we're always talking about here is the tone that I have to be real and do everything in order to decentralize. We here even have a proposal for this law today to say that those 50% of the money that local self-government should earn and that, their purpose is decided by the minister. So, my people, what are we talking about where we are in local self-government?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29292	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Care about administrative capacities and new employment unfortunately you and your party while running the ministry and being coalition partners didn't worry much. In 2003 only for the illustration of the Croatian forest were 47 employees in the Directorate, 2011 at 12 months 190 employees. Not to mention excessive employment within the ministry itself and six agencies that are part of the agriculture ministry. We said that we would make maximum use of the human potentials and colleagues that we have within the ministry, which we have within the existing agencies and institutions, and these good employees you have in the administrative, agriculture administrations in the counties and cities can also be transformed into an agency if they are as great experts as I am. One part of it is an excellent number of excellent examples where local self-government units have no problem with what they said with professional, administrative, technical, financial and other structures. ... Unfortunately, and a lot of them are like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, the figures say that again, if we assume that of the 218 493 hectares that were scheduled for sale in 10 years, we sold the dream 62 775 hectares, we sold below 29% of what was planned to the programs. Of the 136 989 hectares planned for rent, we only put 117 thousand hectares back in 10 years in the form of leases, barely 80%. We haven't put what we needed into operation in 10 years, this is the way through the agency. I'm going to say one more word in the European Agency countries to do these jobs. Agricultural land agencies are also responsible for the whole law enforcement process and through this insistence of the region, with the participation of local self-government units, will certainly be better, more transparent and speed up the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29294	Before I go to the replica, I beg you not from the bench. You have business institutes and you use them and you're a colleague of Cobankovic's now on behalf of the club and you'll be able to fix it. Here, I'd like to beg. And the last replica of Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said local self-government was involved in the allocation of agricultural land, that's correct, Art. Article 28(1) continues to speak about what the role of local self-government is, in translation means we will continue to do most of the work when it comes to agricultural land and who will make the decision. We won't be you. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29296	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29297	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So let me just start by saying that the HDZ Club won't support this law. They won't support him for a simple reason, because we do not seem to agree with this law. This law by us is neither reform nor strategic, and I'm afraid it could be anti-strategic because of the consequences it will have. Why don't we accept and what are the conceptal differences? Well, first of all, I'm going to warn you of two, that's that the sale of state agricultural land is excluded, and the second is that this law introduces centralised in deciding on the most favourable bidders. That's the two basics that make us conjecture. And now let me go back a little bit to history and say that the issue of agricultural land is something that is very important for the development of agriculture, to be already in 1994. In the years that the first Law on Agricultural Land was adopted, that he then established certain ways of making available to agricultural land, and then he transferred the main role in the implementation of the available programme to the counties in charge of making available. The coming of the coalition government is about to change the law, and he would say, essentially, change. From the county comes and is delegated powers to local self-government units in such a way that units of local self-government are committed primarily to bringing available programmes, to determine the purpose of state agricultural land, which is to sell, rent and then concession. Later renamed as a long-term lease. And then something happens to us that reminds me a little bit of this time today. And then the process of availability was suspended, and then the law was passed, and then the law was discussed, and then the second reading, and then the sublegal acts, and then the implementing acts related to the law and unfortunately four years passed, and the implementation I would say to the state agricultural land, unfortunately, there was no. And of course, as I said in 2004, Croatia becomes a candidate country for EU membership, 2005. Croatia begins negotiations, gets negotiations and talks for EU membership begin. And of course there was no more time to go into some strategic changes and this law, but we simply adopted that law as it was, and I don't see anything or bad that was passed on to local self-government units to be the ones to determine the purpose. I think that's fair. When we look at state agricultural land is certainly one of the significant national treasures, national values and it is mainly important for the individuals of the local self-government on which they are located. Croatia is a diverse country, Croatia is a relatively small country, but it has a marked variety. And of course someone has land, the other one has forests, the third one has seas, etc., the fourth mountain and all that is, all that is what contributes I would say to the beauty of Croatia, but beauty does not live, something needs to live on. And all of these are also certain natural predispositions for the development of certain areas, and that is why I believe it is normal that the coalition power by structure is very similar to today's coalition only without the HSS and practically everyone else is more or less in the coalition today, that it has gone into such changes and as I have said and we have also accepted the HDZ government and our coalition partners have accepted and gone towards the implementation of this Law. What's still important here to point out, you're providing certain data. I said watch for eight years, don't look ten years. And the next thing I know, it's been a year since you've been in office. Two will pass, four years will pass, and then they will be able to draw a line and see what is who and how much in their mandate they have done. You say today and the fact is that one of your instructions is that it is inappropriate in parliamentary practice that the law of a country can be suspended by the direction of a minister. I'm sorry, this is inappropriate for the form of parliamentary democracy. And then you tell us some stories that you solved some 20 thousand acres last year. They're stories for little kids. You haven't solved practically anything, you've solved a few requirements that have come to you in selecting the best bidder by competition, but of course you've gone into something that probably suits your strategic direction in the development of agriculture. This law did not prevent you, it prevented you from going in the direction of sales and leases and doing so to units of local self-government but what is in the jurisdiction of the ministry you went in and in accordance with the applicable law and according to the current programs of availability you went to competitions for long-term leases. And you've been doing those contests, but that's not nearly 20 grand. And I ask you to here as well as the parliamentary question if necessary and in writing I will instruct the Ministry to deliver to us what has been solved agricultural land in 2012. Why are we opposed to leaving out sales? So look at all the transition countries that have passed today, which are EU members who have had a similar situation, which had state-owned land, have just been going in the direction of sales. So where were you if I wasn't wrong last year in Poland, you also visited the Agricultural Land Agency, and then they also made it clear to you that their basic task was to privatise agricultural land. If I'm not mistaken, Poland has about 4 million hectares of state agricultural land, and then they tell you that they've solved orts so far sold about 3 million hectares, and that this million 700 is a matter of solving land and other conditions that could be sold. Well, that's also the reason in Croatia. You know how many units of local self-government went into making new measurements so they could create an assumption simply that this land could be sold. You can't sell something that's not in the state, you can't sell where there's a catastrophe and a granite and the like. And these were all significant activities. And today, when a good part of the units of local self-government that gro has agricultural land,...that's what you're doing, you're saying now, "Puj dots," it's not true now that we're going to be the ones to decide." As I said, the basis for the development of family economies is land capacity and it is therefore very important that farmers become farmers and owners of agricultural land or the fact that, as a consequence of socialism, it is a small land fund of the OPG, it is important that it is owned, that it is a grant owner, that it increases the value of its property, that it creates an assumption and easier borrowing, easier investment and everything else. Now that I talk about it, I could spend an hour here and talk and harass you. But I'm saying if most or almost all of the transition countries were going in a direction to privatise the state land in a way that they sell it to their farmers, then I don't see why Croatia would be different. What I want to say now is about selling, is centralised decision-making, and unfortunately I have to realize that this government is a little bit, little bit, reaching out for centralization, for centralised decision-making. Whether it is a mistrust with other entities in the system of government, whether it is a mistrust with local self-government, whether it is a mistrust with regional self-government, but the fact that this government often reaches out in some other segments of centralisation. Such a form of centralised really dear friends is not suitable in 2013 people, so it might be appropriate to do so in the 1990s. But now that Croatia and the signatories of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and in some ways it commits something to this country, today go in the form of the withdrawal of certain rights and competences to local self-government, I don't think it's good. And I think that no one about it is I would say the best spoken by Agent Sponza, that no one can know better how and what to do with a certain natural wealth, and that is agricultural land than those living in that area can know. No one from Zagreb can forgive me, nor can they have that sensitivity, but they can't have a sense of what agricultural land in Istria means in Dalmatia, what it means in Slavonia and Srijem. And so I'm surprised that you reached out and then spread the stories that this is going to go into one better, better quality, faster, more transparent way and you're giving the law something quite the opposite. The law is a completely undefined decision. You say the agency will make a decision based on the position of the commission consisting of two members who are one member of the agency from the local self-government and your distinguished Ms. Assistant to the Committee on Agriculture says there is no talk about centralised. So local self-government units have one member. So which member? So let's look ourselves in the eye, so the decisions were made on the proposal of the commission, which was appointed by the municipal or city council, were made entirely by either the municipal or the city council on which both the position and the opposition took part. So I can think of who will now be a representative of local self-government, so it will generally come from opposition to the position in the local self-government unit, whether in most local self-government, they are or will be in power to represent the current opposition at the state level. And then the minority with the agency will make a decision on something, so where is their responsibility. So if they had a responsibility they'd be chosen to be positions. And that's why I'm surprised that even Mr. Prime Minister was able to convince himself that he's taking the right to speak to himself and saying that we're going to deal with it transparently now, so far, it's being handled by the local sheriffs. Well, Mr. Minister one of those as he says the local sheriffs were recently you, and here I see a lot of these local sheriffs, and they forget that these local sheriffs were elected in a more direct way than Mr. Prime Minister, that they were elected by direct choice, that representatives of city and municipal councils were also elected. So there was a vote for them, and they were not defiant. No one appointed them. And that's why we can't accept such connotations and we can't accept that kind of decision-making. You have a majority in this honorary home, take responsibility. But the responsibility will come, and the mandate will pass, you know. Another thing, the use of agricultural land. The use of agricultural land is in correlation with good agricultural policies. When good agricultural policies are then there is greater use, when poor agricultural policies are then the use of agricultural land is also reduced for a simple reason. If the conditions are worse, then all that's worse, unfortunately no one will work to produce a deficit or loss. And it will unfortunately happen to the Republic of Croatia and to you, Mr. Minister, that at the end of the term, you will have less land, on average than these 260 thousand you mention, so it is not 260 thousand, add here 40 thousand of those that have been solved... agricultural land. Don't just say what suits you and don't talk about those 800 thousand acres. There are 560 grand if I'm not mistaken is covered by available programs And that's what you said yourself, with 400 units of local self-government. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29298	Thank you. We've reported a lot of replicas. The first one called Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Chobankovic, I think that almost every word you've said deserves a replica, but I'll be on my way so long as I get there. Dude, it's not off sale by this law. Article 50 provides for regulated situations where sales are allowed, when sales are useful but of course it is an exception. It's the government's decision, these majority, that the state agricultural land is not sold out like you did. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. What we succeeded in the HDZ mandate from Croatia, which was an exporter of food, which she earned, which she had plus during the war, came into the situation we are in. We want to retain and preserve the state treasure, and that is agricultural land in this case. Furthermore, you're talking about terrible centralization, you're talking about the agency. Do you really need to be reminded that you have, for example, predicted that the agency is not in possession of state agricultural land but private land? You predicted that no one in the Republic of Croatia could sell their property privately without the state involved its fingers and of course the Constitutional Court had to intervene in this. Now you're attacking this law, and the one that was passed for the last term was practically massacred by the Constitutional Court because of his notorious unconstitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29300	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29301	Thank you very much. Well, Your Honor, you say you could replicate everything. Well, I could replicate every word of yours, too, but now I'm going to tell you, the reflection of the use of agricultural land is good agricultural policies. Good agricultural policies need to create assumptions similar to or equal to those that are our competition. And when Croatia has the same conditions, then we will be able to talk about our external trade balance. You're talking about the external trade balance, so see why the external trade balance from 2012 is significantly worse than it was in 2011. So is that a reflection of my work, too, dear sir?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29302	Thank you. Next replica, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there'd be a lot of elements for the replica, but I'll just try some things. There is a terrible attack on the law, and within a little over a year, the competent ministry and the government did not create the Agriculture Strategy, and you said that from 2004 to 2007, you were unable to deal with the Strategy of Agriculture Policy because of negotiations with the European Union, and then you worked on operational plans. I'm interested in what happened in 2007-2011, you mentioned that part and why it wasn't done. By listening to our farmers who said give us only the land to work, which is the excuse that we have 500 thousand acres of land that we can give farmers to work without being put into office. Is this the excellent system that you've set up, and that's why so much land has not been used. Or maybe we're also to blame for only 1% of the country being irrigated. Is it perhaps this government's fault that it hasn't solved it in the past year or maybe it's a little bit, but just a little bit of your guilt that you've been the resolute minister of all those years. After that, you say we're wasting our time, so imagine going with the law to first and second reading. And imagine that we came with the law in an emergency procedure. What would happen would first be the Constitutional Court's reaction to your law, and after that, the tables would go wild. So when you're talking, think about everything you've done in the last eight years, and then explain what's going on today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29304	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29305	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. So I'm going to tell you all of what you said is the fact that it just started during my term of office. And the irrigation started in the period, the irrigation programme, the national programme started since 2005. That and it's not true that we have one percent, but we've already come close to 6% of the surface under irrigation, you know. But also when we talk about agricultural land, so I can never accept such an option of such centralisation and I cannot accept the conclusion that when decisions were made by the city or municipal council on a proposal from the commission, when the ministry examined and gave consent or denied consent and when it was all reviewed by the State's attorney that it was not one correct and transparent way, and that now that three people are practically going to make a proposal, and someone in the agency doesn't know who, because it doesn't say it's going to be a decision that it's going to be transparent. Well, if it's going to be transparent, then it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29306	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29307	Dear colleague Cobankovic, here I will look back on the part where you said we should stop talking about how much land we really have in the Republic of Croatia, which today is ready for the application of this law that is being offered to us. First of all, it's a devastating fact that we're going into a law like this with statistics from 2005. That's what the law says. The data is from 2005. Statistical yearbook, and this is 2013. For the past eight years, nothing has happened. But then the data that says the programmes cover 550,000 hectares, and we are talking about a total number of 890,000 hectares. So then the law gives up the most successful model, and that's a lease that took place in almost 90%. We give it up and go on a long lease that's only 60%, and we're giving up the whole sale that's only 30%. For what? That's the question. And why are we talking about a million acres? There's also a naked island in that million acres. Do you know what's on the naked island of agricultural land? There's 450 ha of such Minister's land. What are we gonna plant there? That's the question. Should we continue to force this story as something very important, that our peasants think they'll live better than this law and that so much is available. Well, no, maybe there's 100,000, 150 thousand acres and a question in what state you were talking about, Mr. Cobankovic. That's the basic question. And do we do it for the sake of that peasant or some other who might bring it to a point in view of the state he's in?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29308	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29309	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for this very replica, because you've given me a chance that unfortunately I haven't had for the shortest time to explain and the question of these hectares and the story of some five hundred acres that will suddenly be created and given to a function of production, 500 thousand hectares and give a function of agricultural production are stories for small children. It's the same as this data from this 890 thousand-acre yearbook that has state-owned agricultural land. The 398 units of local self-government included 552 000. There are no state-owned land of 75 units of local self-government, and 74 units of local self-government did not make available programmes. Now let me tell you, you know, there's land. And you know what municipalities these are, what units of local self-government? So some on the islands, some on the coast, some where there is a certain part of the stoner. There's not a single municipality in Slavonia that didn't bring in a program of availability. So let's take it in order. From Vukovar-Srijemska, Osijek-Baranja, Požega-Slavonska, Virovitica-Slavonska, these 4 Slavonian counties. There's not even 5% unprocessed total land. I'm not talking about Brod County. But let's take a look at why there's so much unprocessed land in Brod County. It's part of the non-investment. I was the one who was pushing for a spot to go into cleaning up a detailed channel network to create assumptions and bring in culture and a good part of that land on land that unfortunately today is not for optimal agricultural production. And stop talking about some new 500 thousand acres. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] We'll come, maybe we'll pick up about a hundred thousand acres of land in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29310	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you said that it was very important and important to arrange land books so that procedures could be carried out at all. And I today as a local official in part of Croatia, what is a large part of Croatia where small particles, small plots can be held responsible for saying that we could not carry out more competitions precisely for reasons because it was not possible to fix the books of land, solve the particles in the catastro so that we could conduct the procedure at all. And today you say that the agency will work better than some office, the department out there that's on the ground is really at least weird. And otherwise, as far as state agencies in the Republic of Croatia are concerned, my hair is rising from them as mayor, because I have so many bad experiences, so many slow processes, procedures that last five, six years that are impossible to solve at all. So in that part, it's definitely not the agencies that can handle it. And I'm just going to say this, my colleague, Cobankovic, you said that in that coalition government in 2000-2003, it was similar that there was no HSS. It's true, he was HSS now without HSS. Well, maybe that's why today there's no HSS in that coalition government or some other government that agriculture is not a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29312	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29313	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I agree with you in almost half of your report, and I agree with the fact that possibly today, the HSS in this government would not certainly have happened to be a billion-and-five hundred million kuna reduction in support in two years. We in governments from 2003 to 2011 fought and succeeded for about two billion and 100 million raised incentives in eight years. And this government in two years manages to cut them by one billion and five hundred.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29314	Thank you. Stephen Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said that Croatia is a diverse country, it has beauty. It does, of course, but it also has certain predispositions for certain production. I come from a part that doesn't even have a large area of land but has one tradition, has one love for livestock farming which is the feather of Croatian livestock and where the enviable results have been achieved. Years of regret these days to witness the collapse of that torment and these results. And then when I talk about livestock, then our Mr. Minister says so I didn't think we were going to talk here about the problem of all kinds of agriculture, but about agricultural land. Well, it's not livestock, Mr. Minister, it's a foreign body. The livestock industry should be a feather of Croatian agriculture and has always been a feather and is seen through livestock. And fellow Cobankovic, if cattle farming is destroyed, which is clearly a trend there cannot be said and next year we will now again. The herding takes far more time to recover, to move again, and to stand on the old feet. And we're talking about the even development of our beautiful. So there's no R on even development. These rural areas have been discriminated against, especially those dealing with livestock, and my county is also one of the most important in livestock production and has suffered an unremembered blow here since this ministry was headed by Mr. Minister Jakovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29316	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Here's a colleague of Chobankovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29317	Thank you very much. So here's another attempt to poverty and marginalize rural areas even more. If he's taken away and he's available and he decides what he's got, then I don't know what's going on in the rural space and what's going to happen and who's going to stay in the rural space. And on the other hand, as far as livestock farming is concerned, I hear that this is a law that will help cattleherd or that cattlemen get under quotes as much land as they need. So all the laws so far have put dairy livestock into priority when selecting the most favourable bidders. And by 2011, there was an increase in milk production, that milk production increased by some 150 million litres or that I translated it by almost 20% compared to 2003 and therefore we managed to get an adequate production quota in the dairy sector. Unfortunately, in this year we actually have a terrible collapse in this dairy production in the last year. And not as much as it was expressed in the second part of the year, but it will only be reflected in this year because there has been a mass slaughter of dairy cows, too many have gone to slaughter, and the stock fund has been reduced which results in dairy in 2013 will be catastrophic. And let's not be surprised if they fall below those quantities of milk that were in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29318	Thank you. As I recall, counterpart Milinkovic said there was no country plot in his area. That you don't have state land in your area. ... Next replica, Vanja Posavac. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29319	Thank you, dear Vice President. My dear colleague, I'm glad you're so worried about agriculture, and if you'd at least been a minister, maybe you wouldn't be in the state we are right now. You're saying you don't see anything wrong with local units determining the purpose and that's fair. Well, I disagree. That just wasn't fair because there were various opportunities for corruption. When you talk about the meaning of municipal, the city council actually leased, etc. So there was a position and the opposition would be able to talk about it. And about the examples of how many countries were given to some who were not even supposed to, and the rest had to wait, so they either got a political likeness or if they had a blue envelope. You keep mentioning this year, I'm asking you what's up with the eight years ago? Given what you've done, believe this ministry will do something. But in a year, everything you've done is hard to correct. And as much as anyone has done in office, so you know it best, as well as the viewers who look at you in an infamous role.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29320	Thank you. I would beg for patience if I could respond to replicas and give replicas. Here's an answer to the replica of colleague Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29321	Well, I'll always, I've always cared about agriculture and I'll always take care of agriculture, what I can do now, I'm, I'm coming from agriculture, my family is agricultural, my family was agricultural and by the circumstances, thank God and I get a lot of agriculture. And all of what I've done in the last eight years, and I haven't been exactly eight years I've been a 6.5-year minister, I haven't been a 1.5-year minister of agriculture. I have done a great deal for agriculture, for the structure of Croatian agriculture, for the implementation of certain programmes for the development of agriculture, for the increase of production, and in my mandate the negotiations with the European Union have ended. So what do you think the European Union would conclude negotiations on the most demanding chapters in the negotiations, these are 3 chapters of agriculture and rural development, food safety and veterinary and phytosanitary protection and fisheries if the state hadn't done and reformed and if the state hadn't created one, I would say a positive framework. And finally, the result of my work is the financial envelopes of dear colleagues. It's not my fault you don't understand agriculture, but the numbers are exact and the numbers are still there today, the numbers will be tomorrow, the numbers will be in three, four years, so we can combine the figures. It's not my fault if we have less milk production in 2013 than we did in 2003. My dear colleague, it's not a reflection of my work. It's a reflection of someone else you raise your hand for, my dear. And those are exact indicators, there's not much, I don't want any.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29322	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you, fellow HDSSB officers. Well, here's my colleague, Cobankovic, I must tell you, for the sake of honesty, you have a certain responsibility in the agricultural portfolio, but he also had a colleague, or his party, who replicated you. That's why I'm so surprised how he's doing his research on how it's a three-way system, and his colleagues have been running it for so long. But let's put it aside now, I'll have my own debate, so I'll be able to say something more. I would just like to agree with colleagues who have said that the exclusion of the sale of state agricultural land is good. I agree, it is the strategic decision of this government that we do not want to sell out what we consider a strategic resource, or national wealth. They say, you say, you argue your position on the need to sell the country that it's a trend that other countries do, I don't see that we should blindly follow every trend. What I was going to say is you also mentioned that if farmers are farmers of agricultural land it increases their market performance and so on, but I think it can increase if they have a country in a long term lease, so for 50 years, I think it's either 25, or already how much security it gives. I'm glad you brought up the mess of land books, which is really a problem, and here we have recently passed in this House and passed a law that I believe will improve the settlement of this particular segment. And what you finally mentioned is that there is no sensitivity for Slavonia, for Dalmatia, etc. in Zagreb. I'd add something else, there's no sensitivity perhaps to godmother, kinship, partnership, and so on, and so forth, which often knew before deciding who would get agricultural land and who didn't. Not to mention, I'm not repeating myself, how one of my colleagues said that in some cases, the ministry was inexpressively addressing the proposals of local self-government units, and in others, it was difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29324	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29326	Reply to the replica of co-worker Čobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29327	Well, I almost thought I wouldn't have anything to answer for, because what you've been saying to the end, I agree with that more or less. But in the end, my dear friend, we are all fools, so don't talk about anything, so how many mayors there are here, so it's corrupt people making those decisions. And I say in a transparent way, it was known to whom, who was not satisfied, who would complain. He complained to the ministry, complained to the state's attorney's office. Well, of course, well, not everyone's always right, so I think it should be I don't know how, but maybe I'm wrong, too here. Now let me tell you, even in giving consent, you know sometimes there comes a request and there are very few objections or almost no objections. Well, of course, it can get immediate consent, but here I am looking at my friend Vinkovic, so I'm sitting with him, if I'm sitting with someone as a minister and around the land, I'm sitting with him and the people of the school district. But unfortunately, when the decisions came and there was no number, a contest where there were not a dozen objections. Well, every complaint has to be considered by people, so what do you think it is, this is it now, now I like someone, someone doesn't like it. So we had cases where the ministry gave consent, that the state's attorney's office didn't give the clause of legal validity and... It doesn't work and it's over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, the Ministry could be wrong. And now you're heading towards leaving it to three people, three, because you know what three people mean to decide, who have no idea where that land is or where it is. And then it's transparent, and here where there were practically four levels of decision-making, where everyone participated. So once again I tell you who will be involved in the decision-making, who will be the one from the local self-government. Well, where HDZ is in power, so who will be, then it will be the SDP or the HNS of the third. And he'll decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29328	Time. Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Coli cobankovic, you here speak with arguments when arguments are not understood by the people of opposition and by the promoter. And then when they can't in reality, excuse me, when those arguments can't change then they go to change perceptions and say that nothing was right and that's the simplest thing, and then future mayors, mayors report, protect themselves and say they don't want to participate in the land at all. But I'd say something in a single segment, in one we have a single observation of an association of mandarin growers. You know why they have an objection. They also have good ones, because they rented by 2016, they rented 800 ha of land, and they signed the lease, with 652 family economies. Here I'll just ask you to try again with arguments to tell you what this kind of association means and other cooperatives that have no priority at all in these available programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29330	Replication response, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29331	It's hard for me to answer. In accordance with your thoughts on this new law, it's hard for me to answer because I didn't find any options anywhere so that they could be users of certain agricultural land. It means that there is no such way and moderation in this law. But this one when we're talking about tangerines, so here in the context a little bit I'd say reminders of everything that was because they're trying to remember briefly, so they quickly forget and want to bend things and later that nothing was right before they came, and good. So I'll just tell you in 2004. In the years, the ministry and the government set out to co-finance the purchase of mandarins. In the meantime, Croatia had some 20,000 tonnes of mandarin production, and these Mandarins were marketed as someone arrived, along the roads, in the markets, but nothing was marketed or very little one-quarter, from one-fifth to one-quarter was marketed through legal channels of marketing. By introducing co-financing, the ransom created the assumption that today's production of mandarin is, if I'm not mistaken, last year means 2012. There were 80 grand in the year, 20111. In the years there were about 70 thousand tonnes and all or 95% of the mandarins pass through legal channels of marketing, twenty thousand tonnes is what is needed for our needs, and here are some 50-60 thousand tonnes of Mandarin Croatia exports. Here is an indicator of one elaborate agrarian policy where there are assumptions that one segment in one narrow area creates such assumptions of development as it was created in the Neretva Valley that today production of mandarin 80,000 tonnes and 60 thousand in exports here is one indicator of good and successful agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29332	Next replica Marija Vukbratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29333	Mr. Vice President, my respects to Coffankovic. You are saying that one of the basic reasons the HDZ Club will not support this law is that it has given up the concept of selling land, which is of course not entirely true, but that part has already been elaborated by fellow Peja. And I'm going to tell you now why maybe the concept of selling wasn't as good as you want to show it. For one reason, let the research carried out at the Faculty of Agriculture conclude or conclude that if the sale of land or privatisation is to continue at the rate that has been done, this process will not be completed for 30 years. I don't think it's acceptable for 30 years, I didn't make it up, these are the results of a group of researchers from the Faculty of Agriculture. So it's unacceptable and unimaginable that another 30 years of land will remain out of service. In addition, in this way of land management outside function there are about a million hectares of land left, and now I will tell you, let me, I am, since these quantities or areas are very manipulative and that you are very sensitive to this issue, I have made an effort to carry out a survey and I will tell you where in the strategy of agriculture and fisheries of the Republic of Croatia came out in the National Journal of 89/2002. It is said that Croatia has 3.15 million hectares of land from which 1.99 are processed. Meanwhile, the 2008 statistical yearbooks talk about 1.2 million hectares that are also processed. So that's the information we're having today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29334	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Chobankovic, if you don't need to tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29335	I need to educate these gentlemen from the club some more. I'll do it later, and, of course, we're world-famous, and it's no wonder we're having a conversation about this sales issue or not. And your worldview has always gone in the direction of ventilation towards reducing the private sector unlike us who have always advocated the private sector, and that is normal in the end that we may even be having a conversation here right now. I also said in the debate. And dear friends, you have a majority in this House, you will pass this law but don't defend us to say what we think is not good and time will show who was right, whether we were right or you were right. The elections will come again, the citizens will go to the polls, so they'll compromise what we were doing wasn't very happy with 2011 with us, they trusted you. You're taking responsibility now, you're bringing in, but don't stop us from having an opinion. And the second in the end, so what you told me, the distinguished professor, the doctor, and you told me at the end of the 2008 summer paper, how much he said a million, no, I don't remember well. You said by the year 2008 million and 200 thousand hectares. Well, that's what I've been talking about all along. So we have this name of agricultural land very much, the entire flats, the whole Knin landscape, the whole Velebit, the whole of the character is all agricultural land. Well, I heard it, and Goli Island has 400 acres of state land, so somebody's gonna put it into operation. But you said what I agree with you as a rule here. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29336	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29337	I knew this day would come so God forgive me. There's this song called Shock, "I'm a son of gold, grain fields, fields of land, oak woods. I love my mother, my father, and I fear only God." Here comes the day for me to defend one of the HDZ's former ministers. Not because we sat there for so long, unfortunately it took maybe another month for the ministry's professional services to solve the whole contest, the elections came and nothing was settled from that day on and it was in the drawer. And that I'm not particularly surprised that this law goes into full centralised from a neoliberalism goes into a non-infectious system. This is the most appropriate word for this law, and neoliberal because it only suits large not small OPGs. I am surprised by the statements of certain candidates who will now be in the local elections, the sense of politics above all local self-government, not this Parliament, not the government, but the local self-government. So these candidates give up their right to decide in advance. This has also been drawn in the European Charter of Local Self-Government of SDP counterparts. And as you will go to the public as candidates for the mayor, mayor and mayor and say that we do not want to decide on the fate of agricultural land in the area of local self-government, let the agency determine it. The agency where they'll be employed by who? Because what's in the agency so far isn't enough to do the whole job, nor will they know the job. How will they know who's right about that board or the 301 particle where 150 candidates came in and there are 149 complaints? Because it's a particle bounded by a river and a lateral channel possible for irrigation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29338	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Coli cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29339	Thank you very much. ... There's a lot going on in life, but it's important to talk the way it is. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Sometimes a man doesn't respond to the way it is, so it's probably not easy for you to say it all like this today, but what can be done is the way it is. Right? I'm sorry about those months because it was a valuable and huge contest and I'm sorry we haven't had a little space to solve it in one satisfactory way yet. There's been a lot of effort on the part of me as a minister and on the part of my people who have actively participated in this, and I have to tell you, Mr. Mayor, that you've made every effort to communicate well with both associations and everyone else. And I said I felt that you had the capacity ever since when you helped me solve certain peasant riots when you were in the SDP, but here you are today confirming it in the best way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29340	Thank you. Replica Ivan Drmić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29341	I'd like to answer with one replica. I'm going to repeat one more time what I've replicated to former Minister Schooker. We have one tragedy that we know best, and they just know what to do when they're not ministers anymore, but when they become former ministers. You, Mr. Cobankovic, have had an 8-year mission and the need means in almost two mandates to help our farmers get on their feet, to strengthen enough to enter as wealthy peasants into the EU. Today we see that you have not accomplished this task and that the situation is more than catastrophic. I can agree with you in the section where you discussed today's minister. In this little situation today reminds me of the '45s arrival of communists to power when they didn't get along very well. First they shared that land with the poor, then they told the peasants, now let's go to some cooperatives, and they drove them inside, and they remembered what agriculture and agriculture would do to us, let's go to industrialization. And all that time, they were grinding ceilings, doing various commissions, and what the people had marketed off with them, that's what the ground was. Today, the same situation is similar, first this country was sold, leased, today it doesn't fit, a little goes to cooperatives only not clean attics, today it cleans gyro accounts and current accounts. And also people leave villages because there is no perspective, but today there is no famous industrialization because they have nowhere to go. In cities, the situation is even worse than today. If there were irregularities under the former law, here I'll give you an example in the village of Djakova, they're called the Keshincs somewhere in '97. Or in '98, the rural football field with complete infrastructure, locker rooms and other facilities was sold to one man by the municipal chief as a pasture even though everyone knew and today there is a football club there people use it. That went through the appeal and got confirmation from you at the ministry which is the most interesting agreement the State's Attorney's Office gave. That was 15 years ago. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29342	Thank you. We got it. The reply to the replica please choose your colleague, Cobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29343	Thank you very much. Well, I wouldn't agree with your findings if I knew what to do, if I knew now, without knowing when to do it. My dear friend, I knew very well what to do. Once again, I will repeat what is most important, if in eight years the incentives with a billion and 600 as much as they were in 2003 come to 3 billion and 700 in eight years it is 2 billion and 100 million have increased the incentives in this period of our time. If we have done and increased production of all those strategic products, if we have finished negotiations and we have received good financial envelopes based on what we have done and a good position through the negotiations then I think we know what is done. Now you see the results of counter-politicalism in these two years, in two years, dear friend. ... Budgetary, you can already see this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2012, a billion less incentives, in 2013, another 500 million, means in two years 2.5 billion less incentives. And now to return to our dear Slavonia and Sreem and Baranja. Do you know how much she participates in the overall incentives in the agriculture of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? Well, more than 2/3. Now take it that in two years Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem got almost 2 billion or a billion less, then you see the difference between Cobankovic as minister and someone else as minister. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29344	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29345	Thank you very much. So, after these discussions and replicas today, Cobankovic keeps asking himself whether we are in the interest of a Croatian peasant, whether we are in the interest of agricultural production or political bickering for local elections. Because it is very interesting that the law with which we have concluded the negotiations for entry into the European Union into a chapter that may have been one of the most demanding with the judiciary, is suddenly not good, and instead of building on that law, to correct what has been seen to be wrong, on the one hand to work administratively to say the programming capacity, that tomorrow from this financial envelope can be withdrawn as much as possible. What we do, we take from 500 and some other municipal and city councils the right to publicly and transparently decide in open sessions something and put it into the hands of three people. Today there's something the minister is a little... so he said there'd be some kind of regional agency, but if they're practically missing at this point in the law, if you don't have people to do the job, then the question is, what does that mean? But just strengthening the administrative capacity at the ministry means that those units of local self-government that can't do it themselves, so they need help from the ministry. But what I want to say anyway, which is the means to support agriculture. It is very interesting that a colleague, Cobankovic, can do anything with a billion and a half kuna. It's great, it's great, it's worth everything, and with 3 billion $900 million, there's nothing you can do about it. It's a story like we're talking about 39 billion kuna, so then we cut the incentives by a billion and a half, then that amount isn't big. But if you cut 3 billion and 900 by a billion and 500, it's almost 40%, and it certainly doesn't go to farmers. And at the end of the last sentence, colleagues and colleagues don't skip the softly operational programmes, because if there were no operational programmes, the question is how many chocolate vines in Croatia today, how many olives and what our cattle fund would be It's the facts and the truth that you can't... [[/Intruder Batinić: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29346	We have a reply to the replica, colleague Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29347	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said what you said. We have completed the negotiations, this law is not well the law that was important to the negotiations but why you did not implement it. And you yourself, Mr. Minister, quoted certain provisions of the law that say that for those units of local self-government that by the end of 2011, did not bring the available programs to the agency and why you didn't do it in 2012, why the agency didn't work out and bring in the availability programmes for those 74 units of local self-government, and then it could be solved where they didn't want an agency to solve for those units of local self-government. I've always stood on the stand that those who don't work should be punished, there were those. And now, as far as this part is concerned, I have to thank you, colleague Shucker, because you, as well as the Minister of Finance, had one, I would say great sensitivity for the needs of agriculture, but you also understood European policy, you knew what support was allowed, which is not allowed. And often when it comes to some support and says in agriculture there are so much support, it is part of the legal support accepted by the European Union, which is significantly greater in the European Union. And so here's why let me thank you for having succeeded and for having us as a government, we didn't have the obstruction of the Ministry of Finance, of course it wasn't easy, it wasn't easy, and we had our problems, and we had the need for budget rebalances, and we had the need to cut costs, but it still didn't cut exclusively on agriculture, but agriculture was still getting more in all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29348	Thank you. And the last replica, Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am, for a change, going to be kind to my colleague, Cobankovic, but some things in his presentation, even through these replicas, have attracted my attention. You spoke of incentives, combined amounts paid in your time as a minister and during this coalition government. Listen, I've come to a confusing finding that it actually seems to me that you're experiencing agriculture and the meaning of agriculture through the payment of incentives. It's really not clear to me. And I don't understand one more thing, namely I know what was negotiated in Chapter 13, when it comes to incentives, I know that we have accepted through negotiations to leave direct payments and certain categories of incentives. We didn't. The incentives are in fishing. ... That's right. [[You can't hear it.]] They're breaking up. We've got them now, but we won't have them behind 1.7. I'm interested in what about farm payments? And one thing you said in your presentation, I'm going to try to quote you a bad agricultural policy is going to condition a reduction in the working surface, and given the statistics, it's visible that this reduction has occurred for the past 10 years, at least until stagnation. So I would just like to ask you to end this way that you, as a minister who has been so many years at the post, assess your work whether you have been a good minister or if you have been a bad minister, or if you consider that the results of your mandates as a minister have brought agrarian into a satisfactory state, or if he is still in a state that is not great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29350	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Coli cobankovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29351	So I think I can tell you this, I'll tell you right now. I think I've been a good minister, and that's what the indicators of everyone who's, who's available. And they'll only be able to compete with these indicators that will be. Maybe it'll turn out I wasn't a good minister. Maybe these indicators that are going to be better in the next period, and maybe they'll confirm what I think they're going to be. You know? But what I want to say about the situation in agriculture, here's an example of how very quickly it can be broken. One bad move is last year's first. In some ways, the state cannot determine the price of milk, but it can participate actively. Actively, he can't find any other options. I know it wasn't easy or simple for milk processors either. And you know what I was doing. Here, I'll tell you. Well, I tried to protect the price of milk maximum. Well, I was heading towards negotiating with my fellow ministers, talking to them, that we were going to cut off that refund fee and so on to drive out the processor in one segment so it could be competitive. So it's not even about making uncompetitive milk processors. So who's going to buy milk tomorrow if the milk processors fail. But it must also always try to fight for a farmer, it must be created for them. It's just one example as I say, it's not that you're just looking at agriculture as agriculture. You have to have one width, you have to look wider and look for certain possibilities. Now let me get back to fishing for you. So be honest, and compare my duties in fishing and the former. Only those measures that have been introduced and what has been paid, and then finally and accepting that fishing support are up to the entry because they are not in the common agricultural policy of direct fisheries payments And at the same time, we've been taking structural measures. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29352	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think I'm a naive man, and I didn't expect to be a minister of support or unreserved support from your club. Also, listening to all this, and I predicted that in some way you would take advantage of the time you have and in the presentation, and later on in these replicas, answers and others to glorify or show in a particularly positive light all the achievements you have had or which you think you have had in the eight years that you've run the ministry. I'm more surprised by the fact that you deny some facts that can't be so denied more or less because you said yourself that the figures are exact. So if we have the Bureau of Statistics, which in the 2005 statistical year lists the number and letters that we have 2 million 695 thousand hectares, that of this state land is 890,214 hectares. If we had included 552000 hectares in our available programs, and if we had put only 30% of it into operation, then it's exact figures, then you can't run from it. Again, we're going to pull the parallel again and with the dairy beef where there have been questions about the increase, about the large investments leftover. The exact figures again speak when the milk reference laboratory started in 2003 that we had 65,000 family economies that taught milk and were involved in the production of milk. In 2012, it was 15 grand. So, 50,000 fewer farmers dealing with milk production. There were a lot of things I could refer to in this section. A prerequisite and one of the important preconditions which unfortunately have not been made in the past 20 years, which are geodesic-catastrian changes, these are unsettled land books. In 20 years, very little has been done, unfortunately. A lot of that stuff was done in that part of the initiative and with significant resources from the local self-government unit. At this rate that we've been working so far, it would probably take us another 20, 30, 40 years to build a database and know what we really have. You mentioned the Ship-Posavina County at one point. We have 26 municipalities and 2 cities there and we have all made available programmes for agricultural land, except for one term when the coalition government was in 2001, 2005 left HDZ in power. The head of the Management Department for Agriculture at one of the expert meetings that we had presented the fact that despite the fact that we have made available 24000 more ha of state land in that county, these available programmes are not covered. So much for the quality, good implementation of the agricultural land distribution programme from individual units of local self-government and counties. Gentlemen and this law as well as the other reforms we are doing introduce order, work and responsibility. The respected colleague Shuker's, the support was and there was a reference quite significantly higher. I'm only going to look at the ninth, tenth and eleventh, those were 3, 2, 3, 4 or 3.7. Although I'm hearing it's up to 3.9 billion now. In 2011, it was a pre-election year, additionally pumping funds you tried to win the election. You failed, it didn't work out. What is the effect of these nearly 11 billion kunas sent to end users in the three years alone? Did we make more food, did we produce more quality, was that food cheaper? Agricultural support is not a social category and is not a means of procuring and buying votes. We must make competitive, well-organised and quality food producers. We have tradition, we have knowledge, we have opportunities, we have natural resources, unfortunately by misimplementation of the existing law, we have not put that resource into operation. Agricultural land is the basic resource we should have put into operation, we couldn't. Referring to these funds whether we could do more or couldn't do more. As Government, we've plotted how much we can have deficits and how and in what way, unlike previous years. If it hadn't been for such unintended spending, if it hadn't been for so much borrowing, we wouldn't have had so much interest to pay back this year and we wouldn't have such budgetary constraints. By regulating the system that in agriculture my team and I started working on a series of things that weren't the rule. There was no rule so far to control the support in the way it's done. No payment of capital support over the line, no payment of expensive rents, private rentals for the ministry's needs, no plans, no quotas without criteria. It's a system arrangement, we're working on it. Do we work fast enough? We're doing as much as we can within the limits of our capabilities. Everything is measurable, it will be seen in a year, in two, in three years at the end of this term how much we have really succeeded and how much land we land if we return directly to the land we put into operation. There was an excellent example of mandarin here. Yes, Mandarins are one of the few of our products somewhere we have self-sufficiency in production, and we have 7 or 8 products like that, but where we have significant export surpluses and we achieve excellent results not only on the EU market but also on third countries' markets. Where is it produced? In the valley of the Neretva River. With the existing law, the city of Metkovic 922 hectares of state land. What did you put into service in eight years? Zero. Zero kuna, no hectare has been placed in any form of availability in the town of Metkovic and the surrounding area in office. The city full of 1658 hectares, only 807 acres in lease for 10 years, which now stands out the lease. If we have already defined the Mandarin as a product that is important to us, important and exportable in each segment, if we have and obviously we produce it perfectly, would you answer me why in eight years then we didn't bother to have agricultural land owned by the state that we have, which is not a little bit of talk about 2,500 thousand acres we haven't put into operation? Because we had a bad law. The new law will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29354	Thank you. We have a report of a replica. Peter Chobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29355	Dear Mr. Minister, the figures are exact and the figures will always be exact. And I'm not afraid of you or anyone sitting down and arguing with you, but with numbers. Don't demagogue, don't tell stories for little kids. Talk about specific things. What makes this law a guarantee that state agricultural land will be dealt with more transparently and that it will be dealt with more quickly? This has been done by local self-government units so far. So they're cca 400 units of local self-government. And now they'll be working on an agency where you say you have 30 or 60 people for all of Croatia. And then take the law, my dear friend, and see what you've given to the agency. Well, they're not superhumans, they're not supermen that they can do five, six jobs at the same time. And what does that mean? So it means that you're going to increase your capacity, that you're going to employ a few hundred more people there, that you're going to be heading towards strengthening that institution, and at the same time you're not using those potentials that you had in local self-government units. The law clearly told you what to do. Why haven't you done that in the past year? Why didn't the agency work for those units of local self-government that didn't form programs, why didn't the agency make available and available programmes in 2012? My dear friend, it will be four years, don't be fooled over the past 8 years and financial assistance has been being helped, not aided, but increased competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, production increased, number of throats increased, assumptions were created, areas under vineyards, orchards, olive groves. Do you know my dear friend? And I'm telling you, unfortunately, milk is a reflection of agriculture. We can talk whatever we want, but making milk is the hardest part. You will unfortunately fall to quantities below 2003 in 2013. And it's a reflection of your work in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29356	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29357	... Unfortunately for the land issue in the Neretva River Valley. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And when we're talking about, you're calling for support again. I would at least be glad if in that part we had the opportunity to get clean bills and not to receive these 3 billion 700, 800, 900 I hear in 2011, at least we got clean bills, not nearly a billion 100, 200, 300 extra debt, which was mostly hidden and which we had to pay and iron through 2012. You've welcomed this law to the knife. You do not allow this agency or this law to show how effective it will be and how efficient, faster and more transparent it will be than boredom. I'm sure that agency will make you think differently, you're always talking about the agriculture strategy and everything. Six agencies that are related to agriculture, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, the Center for Food, whether they were more important, more priority were to put them into office and administratively set them up with a large number of tens or hundreds of employees, or put the agricultural land agency into office, and you founded it in 2008 and spent funds on it, and nothing worked. In 2012, that agency worked. We didn't do programs for one single reason because such programs are no longer, the programs don't do it strategically we knew that we wouldn't work on the programs, available according to the law of this. And we made a good bill. Through all the institutions, through public debates they've done a long time on them, in the government's procedure he's here now. We'll have a good, excellent law to show the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29358	Thank you, too. Comrade Shuker, you've shown a breach of the rules of procedure, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29359	Well, it wasn't the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was yours as the chairman wanted you to warn the government's representatives that they had come to the home of Croatian MPs and that they had to behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29360	I'm taking your word for it. You can't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29361	That they can't be here, just a little please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29362	I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29363	You can interrupt me, I'll look for a break in the name of the bench and then hang up. I'm just trying to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29364	You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29365	You must warn the minister that he cannot ask the MPs questions. You as chairman must do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29366	Comrade Shuker, when you will chair here you will interpret how you consider it appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29367	Is it? And you'll act like a party line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29368	I give you a heads-up about your behavior, that's right. And I would only ask you, since the debate is about this agricultural land law between the former minister and the current minister has come to a level, I believe of professional interest to try to focus a little more on the text of the law than on a personal level. We have the next replica of the twilight. Here you go. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm very sorry, really, that you don't have the strength, but not even in presenting this law to us today, which is gone, but you don't have the strength to talk about facts or maybe you can't. I trust you may not be able to, Mr. Minister? Is the ex-Catedra to come to the ministry or somewhere, not to say anything else without being understood differently, ex-apothecary, have no idea what this is about? Dear Mr. Minister, then we accept statistics, and in these statistics there are 151 MPs, unfortunately in reality we are gone, you see. You have to have good associates and those who know what this is about, so we can tell you this was okay, and this isn't. If you had put or shown us the law here and told us that this was going to be some changes to the law, not that you spat a complete agricultural policy back 8 years, that's a shame. And how you expect us not to simply comment on what we see. Why do you expect us to trust you, based on what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29370	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29371	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers said you did not support the means to train and buy votes, but to want quality farms, quality OPGs, etc. In what way? We heard today that you've reduced support by a billion and a half kuna over the past two years. You didn't do any damage just by reducing, but you made it impossible for those who were developing, in forming such farms, the OPG to continue to develop, they simply disappeared from the face of the earth, they disappeared, they ended up at the employment office. A good businessman recently said, 300 thousand people should be returned to the country if we are to resolve unemployment. Are these measures, is this the law with which we can do it? Of course, it's nowhere to go back. The question is, how do we generally discuss state land today, whose land was 100 years ago, 80 or 70, that's the question? Why do these same ones that were taken away have no right, equal right to return that property to their property, and buy it at the end. This law makes it impossible for them, that's the question. We have 119 settlements without residents, 2% of total settlements in Croatia. What about that, whose property is it, how to get people back there? This should be answered through such a proposal for a law dealing with agricultural land. We are a country and agriculture, and tourism, at least industry, but obviously we don't want to deal with it the best way, but we're always looking for exceptions or some new, new solutions that no one else has ever seen before. So let's look in Switzerland, Austria, and how do they handle it? In Switzerland, there are no companies owned by agricultural land at all. We'll have it most of the time, and then we wonder why people or peasants aren't in rural areas. That's what needs to be answered, and the damage you've done by reducing incentives is multiple, about 10 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29372	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29373	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't take a word here to celebrate anyone, but also to demean anyone. We are simply not fans here, nor Dinams, nor Hajduka, but simple representatives, can also Zadar, and of course I am Slaven Belupa, but thank God, but I want to say one other thing, we are here to point to problems that arise in agriculture and which could naturally arise with such laws and any other measures that are being taken. Of course, they don't take it because it all goes, unfortunately, irreversibly in one very bad direction. And we're also here to defend the honor of the local self-government units that you say they're not, they're nothing, they're some sheriffs out there, they're destroying everything, they're destroying everything, and for years we've been taking care of the problem of farmers, and it's very significant of those support that's legally allowed, so to the same damage record, participation in that, and ultimately nothing. We're here, you Mr. Minister, you're kind of getting rid of the importance of agricultural support here. It is not true that it is some voting mechanism, the support has greatly improved agriculture and raised production in every sense, but of course support is only one of the moments. There are other moments which contribute to this competitiveness and these are input costs. Well, you've allowed these entry costs to become immensely high. So if we just compare the energy prices, all the other things that contribute to the negative segment, all of this leads to recovery. Two kunas is a liter of milk. You guaranteed it would be 2.43, below it was 1.90 and a kilo of mixture is 3 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29374	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29375	A respected colleague, counsellor. Well, I'll take it very briefly, because it's starting to bid too much on these aids, so let's just get one thing straight. We heard about 2010 production, 2011 paid three billion 700 to 3 billion 800 kuna. In 2012 Year 2011 And the previous periods we paid almost 3 billion 170 thousand out of which 320 million are actually capital vouchers that you issued in the previous years, 150 million in the current year we will pay your debts that way. 75 million next year, 2014. The amount of funds paid is not significantly smaller. We said that the original funds for direct payments and this year they're not going to be at the level of almost what was paid in the last year. The results, unfortunately, of the aid they are entering agriculture for the purpose of pre-agricultural production, make it more competitive, increase agricultural production and make agricultural products at a lower price. None of it had any results. As for the other good things, my colleague isn't here. It's not true that I didn't say that, or that it was all negative that it was so far. Good and positive measures that were and we continued them as such. ... For the purchase of mandarins, grapes, apples, olive oil were good measures because, in addition to the regulation of the market, they guarantee a safe purchase and guarantee the elimination of the gray market while we can finance them as such, we continued to work and found the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's not bad about us is to show that we sort of correct and make the agricultural land bill better through reform procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29376	And the last replica, Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29377	Dear Mr. Minister, we did not welcome this law to the knife as Mr. Minister said. I think that here, and especially colleague Cobankovic, we are very argumentatively talking about this law and clearly our opinion that the current law has been better for several reasons. One reason is that through this law, citizens through their representative bodies have made decisions on agricultural land. It is said here that this law is reform. I don't think this law is reformable because in order for something to be reformed and for some law to be reformed, it has to be better, it has to be faster, it has to be more transparent and it has to cost less. I think when it comes to this law that it's not all that together. Is it more transparent? I don't think so. Before the representative bodies eventually decided on it, now several people will decide. If there's less cost, they're not. Because before all these city employees, the municipalities were doing it within the framework of at least I mean my regular incomes and jobs. Now these people are going to be paid at the agency, and in order to make it as fast and efficient as possible, we're going to have to hire now I don't know 50, 60, 100 people. Will agricultural production increase as a reflection on this law? I don't think it's gonna be compared to before. And it'll be faster. I don't think it's going to be any faster because three men or five or fifty can't decide what four thousand people used to decide or what it was. So I don't think this law is reformal, and that's why we criticise this law by not waiting for it on a knife, but we think it's justified by saying that before this procedure was better than it is now. What will now be compared to before, with everything else, is certain that there will be another centralisation of decisions concerning citizens, i.e. people living in units of local self-government, which will now be excluded when deciding on agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29378	And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Comrade Shuker, let me explain. Here's a double Calmeta-Sucker paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29379	I raised the table, Mr. Chairman, the moment the minister started talking about the debt increase. The Minister of Agriculture once began to interpret fiscal policy. Well, Mr. Minister, when you're headed for that, you should say that you've increased public debt by 22 billion these two years, that you've taken 7 billion out of the pockets of Croatian citizens by increasing taxes and that you haven't done so would increase public debt by 29 billion. But just for your sake, if you're already referring to the 2005 statistics, in 2008, when the economic crisis and the financial crisis started in the world, the government budget deficit was 2.8 billion kuna. So I repeat, your deficit and your debt and the increase in public debt in these two years if you hadn't taken seven billion out of your pocket by increasing taxes to Croatian citizens, it would have been 29 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29380	Thank you. This is what we used up the replicas. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29381	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that both the length and the course of the debate and this vast number of replicas are saying that it is a very important topic that has emerged from the topic of analysis of the Agricultural Land Act and touched the overall debate on agrarian. So if we were to talk and if we wanted to talk seriously about agrarian politics then the debate should be complex and should and often end up as a frustrating debate. Why complex? Because then we should say a lot about the effects or effects of agriculture so far, we should probably say something about the market itself or the failure of the agricultural market. Then we could say something about support, we could say something about these support and expensive jeeps. A peasant never went to the Atar in such expensive jeeps and machines as he does today. We should probably say something more complex about legalising objects, agricultural objects, and we should say something about these very accompanying agencies about their functioning and their effectiveness. Why would that be frustrating? Because we all have a general score. Much has been invested in agriculture in the past many of these budgets with relatively invested effects from agriculture are very small even alarming. Our colleagues were not to repeat ourselves constantly withdrawing parallels between exports and imports of agricultural products. So I'll go back to the legal text itself. It's more than obvious here that it's two concepts. In the previous period, we had a very liberal concept of the treatment of agricultural production, or the agrarian itself, which was aimed at denationalising large systems we were aiming at privatising the land fund. This was mainly carried out through the agricultural land distribution programme as a basic law and accompanying available programmes. The country was divided to pesoriously say by hand and hat to those who had never had a relationship with the earth, nor did they have the means or mechanisms to process the land but were in a circle in which a very popular and relatively easy way could reach large surfaces. I'm talking about the experience from the space I come from. Nevertheless, it should be said that the result of the past such liberal policy in agriculture is, in any case, the formation of a very large number of OPGs, the result of the rise of a very large number of hectares, to note only that Osijek-Baranja County has become one of the most fruity counties in the Republic of Croatia due to this past programme of agricultural land availability. Now through this legal text we are serving something else or trying to present as a better solution here another concept which I would call a conservative concept because it wants first of all to prevent further land sales and because it wants to establish administrative control over the entire process of availability of remaining hectares of land. This is the story of a shift in philosophy of relations to agricultural production, so it goes to pure centralization. Of course, it is the right of the promoter and I assume that the Proposer will also vote through the majority of this House. In this regard, we respect the fact that this is the right of the promoter to be their vision. And through several thesises or analysis of 5 or 6 key moments that I think are important premiums for this law I'm going to say our attitude towards that concept. So for the sake of this first reading, we're going to improve things if we can work out this whole concept that's right here on our desk. The property first thing I want to talk about is a category of land ownership regime. So far, according to the previous concept, we had a land sale, we had a land lease, we had a concession. Now we only have one available category, and that's a 50-year lease. The lease for 50 years may have been some sort of similar property from the point of view of the length of availability or use of that land. It may be for sure to the user that over many years he will have some perspective and investment, the possibility of investment in that land but definitely the lease is not owned and it does not have the same quality, and this is especially seen when you go to the bank and when you go with some kind of program or project and you want to get some kind of credit line, the basis of it all in the conversation with the bank is pure property. So you can't compete with a concept like this, you can't compete with some banking or banking arrangements. It is also important here to say that in the previous period many have misused this property or cashed in. So they sold cheaply to an expensive country, and not with their own guilt, they got so rich. We therefore have cases that, despite the contractual ban on the availability or placing on the market of land for 10 years, the country was placed on the market or sold or leased. So now, since the entry into force of this law, there is no longer such opportunity and then the question arises why did these users who could not make their way into the category of owners because they were not local self-government, have no organised available programmes because the ministry did not make it up to date to confirm it all together. Finally, we also have a category of returnees who were in no position to use this land use privilege through the available programme. So why are these people now in a more unequal position towards those who, according to the previous model, had the right to acquire land in property because they even signed up, even mortgaged that land and burdened it. So we don't think that this distributiveness of these relationships is good at this point in the law. The next category I'd like to say something about is running the whole process through the agricultural land agency. Obviously, the promoter was the only thing he could do if he was going with this model, this concept of availability, that was the only thing he could do right through the Agricultural Land Agency, which is, in a way, the exhibitor and the policy manager of the Ministry. It is a centralized thing, but it's obvious by this model that the only possible way is proposed. One question also arises whether these agencies are as they are, capacitated to deal with all these problems and to solve these problems. They're now concentrating, they've been decommissioned, and they're concentrated in some central larger places, and it's making it even more difficult to work, and it's making it more difficult and more difficult to communicate. In Article 57, the whole diapazon of these powers, i.e. tasks given to agencies, should be dealt with and the transport of agricultural land, should also work on a laboratory analysis of soil, should be analysed and agreed on geodetics, economic programmes should also work, etc., etc. It is not possible, therefore, illogically, technically inconclusive that the agencies with these capacities now available will be able to do all these jobs. So whether Article 57 is implemented in practice. The next thing you'd be talking about, and I think it's very important that's the category of advantage in the competition. So for us at the SDSS it's a fundamental thing that the advantage in the land rental contests have OPGs. This is what we think is very important for the reasons why the OPGs should be strengthened and prepared for entry into the European Union. OPGs are, according to our assessment, the most vital segment of agricultural production, they have absorbed over the past period all excess unemployed people who have remained on the street by the disappearance of large combinations and cooperative systems on the ground. According to some records, there are around 170 thousand, and if we go from the assumption that the OPG holder is employed, and if we start from the assumption that there is only one employee, it is somewhere over 300 thousand jobs. This is significantly more employees than can employ large monopolies who have bought combined and all number of employees to a minimum in various ways. I have these examples. The example of Belja in Baranja, while Belje was combined had 8,000 employees, and 11 were in the sugar tail campaign. Now that Agrokor owns it, there are now 2,000 people who have a tendency to fall employees. Or I have a specific example of the municipality of Trpinj, exclusively the agricultural municipality, the agricultural population in 90% of the cases. According to the old agricultural land model, Vupik won the country's 2200 hectares concession, with a promise to hire people. According to this now model where the advantage is given to large systems, Vupik will have another 600 hectares and the village will be lost to hectares of the country. As of the other day, not to increase the number of employees, but by severance, he's making people retire, so he's firing. If this is the goal of the topic, then we are not, therefore, exclusively talking about favouring the OPG in these competitions. The OPGs are good taxpayers and all state obligations, according to them the tax administration has no mercy, according to large systems, means the moment when someone is in debt of money, when the OPG is owed money to the state state responds to it. For this reason, we think and repeat once again, the key thing is that in the competition the advantage of obtaining or renting the country has the OPGs and then all the others. The economic programme is the next category to say something about, it is a highly favoured element in this law, it is an important element but it does not need to be favoured so highly that the other elements cannot endanger it. The economic programme is, in a formal sense, the promise of land users to the state that land will be used, what investment will be, how busy people will be if they get that land for use. That is why the economic programme is very important to us because it is a public promise and if the economic programme is not respected it is the reason for the termination of the contract. We've had in practice cases so far, experience has it that you could have taken land to raise plantations, so it was said in the program, and to this day you're ratting, you haven't picked up the land or sold the land or leased the land, and that no one for that violation of the economic programme bears any sanctions. So the economic programme does, but it must be complemented by very clear criteria for valorising economic programmes. This valorisation, these criteria must be linked to the strategy, the State Strategy of Agricultural Land in the common area of the Republic of Croatia and of course we have doubts, we have a skepticial against the agency which will be in the composition of 2:1 which will evaluate and valorise these economic programmes. I think it is important here to say that due to the credibility of this law, the revision of the current agricultural land distribution programmes should be carried out precisely in that fact promised in Rajan and the revision of concession fees. It is unacceptable that today we have a concession contract and a fee of 450 kuna while peasants pay 200 euros in rent, which is the income of local self-government. And in this way local self-governments have long-term been cut off with millions, or budgets cut with millions. One more thing I think is very important. The proposal for this law intended to regulate the return of the seized land. We have a category of people who weren't able or had valid documents because they were destroyed to compete for the return of the seized land. We think that the return of the seized land should be in the natural restitution and that of the credit rating class that was taken away and only alternatively if that corresponds to the user to be in cash compensation. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] So for the first reading, we think these are sufficient suggestions that we expect you to apply and install into the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29382	We've registered three replicas. First honorary representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, I sincerely hope that when you vote, you will behave in accordance with your debate. I agree with much of what you said today, because that's the good part of what we point to. But here all the time talking about this law of ours avoids a loud and clear word when it comes to the agency and how many employees will be in the agency and where, ultimately, the many documents they will have to receive, we also said according to article 10 of the data from all units of local self-government. In accordance with Article 12 on the application of maintenance arrangements, the annual report referred to in Article 32 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. So not to mention article 38, which then says that this same agency will still have to receive and analyse the tenant's reports on the implementation of the economic programme from the previous year. And all these documents from 555 or six municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia do not reside in the National University Library. Just get your papers by the time they get here. First, we won't have them where to put them at all, and then the question is, who's going to be able to analyze them at all. The stories of transparency then land allocations fall into the water; they will not be able to read the titles of economic programs, let alone analyse them and then assign land to them. And in the end, it's true, I agree with your findings. I'm glad you're finding that out, too, it's about centralization and double centralization, a centralization that kills two flies with one blow. The way land is allocated and the funds are centralized and taken away by the county and given to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29384	The reply to the replica, dear Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29385	Thank you. I said clearly to my colleague Buric that this is, such a model is a completely legitimate commitment of the promoter, it is a political concept of thinking and development and seeing agriculture in the future. The Agency's control system is precisely possible through such a concept. Is he capacitated that time will show. Otherwise, this law is heavily based on sublaws. It is expected that the Minister will arrange this matter with sublegal acts, not to wait six months, but to arrange it after the adoption of this Act and to give a practical model of how this thing will work on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29386	The second replica, the respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29387	Mr. Horvat, you mentioned in your presentation of the advances which, unfortunately, have now been resolved by some of your workers and that is for us in rural parts of the disaster. Yes, the existing law should be amended because it does not guarantee the local agricultural population that it will be the beneficiary of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia because the law does not define provisions that would guarantee the local agricultural population and the taxpayers that this land will guarantee the staying and safe existence in areas that live in which it is very difficult to deal with every month ultimately to pay all accounts, etc. Thus, the land has always been in Slavonia and Baranja, something that has been fed in fact and fed for. This is a question even from the work of other ministries of competent ministers for labour and pension systems but also from the minister of social policy and youth. It should be borne in mind that this is a very important issue and that it needs to be resolved as a whole. You mentioned two more things that I think are extremely important. It is to amend the law in that part of this new bill, so that one cannot, that one participant cannot cross more than 40 or 50% of the total agricultural area and local self-government units to rent it. And the other thing, so as we said, the economic program to which you mentioned it yourself, but I would say it again, so big systems also have huge logistics capacities and other advantages compared to small OPGs who normally can't have all the high professional equipment, they can't have that kind of mechanization. And normally what's most important is the large product market that effectively excludes them from these tenders. And there will be big problems. I'm hoping the bill promoter will have this in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29388	The reply to the replica, dear Mille Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29389	Thanks, buddy. That's why I said it was our view that priority in the leases have the OPGs. Just from the fact that the dangers you said, the big systems are capacitated, they have logistics, of course, that they can offer better quality programs. But if this suggestion of ours is adopted, then it's only in the second round. Of course, no one can dispute their right to make quality programs but only after that if there are no interested OPGs on that plot.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29390	And the last replica, the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29391	Is it my turn? Thank you very much, sir. I didn't hear you very well. You were talking about what it's really like to say to an evaluation court and the most important element for getting a lease for 50 years, and that's the economic program. In doing so, you listed all of those items that are listed so that someone would have those 60% points to rent some kind of land. But at the same time, you have also expressed doubts about the future of this lease and whether what it is that is said in its economic programme will actually be fulfilled. And we know well and we have a real right to suspect that even so far when we know that many of them are so that I say the champions of those parties that were in power, I know some of my counties from HSS were getting huge surfaces or tables for sale, concession or lease as it was before, and then they only got to the tarp as they say, you know that the tarp in Slavonia was still doing nothing, but they were neatly raising their incentives because the inspection never entered the reference offering or even reviewing those offerings. They also prayed to God for floods or droughts to say that he did not give birth this year, so we cannot even make a reference offering. But they put the flood or drought damage in order, and they're still pushing in their pocket and driving Cheeroke jeeps around the ship which you and I can never afford to get a jeep like that with hundreds of horses as they say. That's why, and here, when it comes to the agency and that commission, indeed, Mr. Minister, and here's my colleague Horvat, we have to say that we have a deep suspicion of what's going to happen with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29392	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29393	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, I think the ministry correctly recognized the fact that one of the key documents in this economic programme is. The economic programme should be seen not only from a technological point of view but also formally and legally as a formal legal fact. She's a liability. If I made a commitment to the state to raise 50 acres of plums to 50 acres, then I can't go to war, then I can't sell that land, then I can't rent that land to someone else. I have to raise 50 acres of plum or the contract breaks up, it's invalid, the country goes back to the land fund and sells to someone else. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that, I deliberately said it because in my midst there was no control over the realisation of economic programs. You have a completely different purpose of the country than the one that was offered in the application procedure for the country seven or eight years ago. It's an amazing thing that someone can sell 200 acres of land that's been banned for 10 years and raises good money. And nothing happens to anyone! It's an amazing thing that someone can rent an annual land on which they have no right to be on the market for 10 years. He's got a nice rent every year and no one's responding. So, this economic programme is a formal-law act of my offer to the state, if I don't respect that contract, it's breaking up, it's sanctioning my fake offer and the country's being given to someone else. That's what I was gonna say. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29394	My friend Grubishic, what are you thinking? Well, you can't get involved like that and say no one gave you a word. Now you get a warning about it. Now, after more than six hours of debate, it's time to hear the eighth club, and then another 26 individual debates. So much so that you know how we've organized time and how much it's going to be for us. On behalf of the HNS club, time will be shared by counterpart Vladimir Bilek and Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29395	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs. On behalf of the HNS Club, I must say, we are pleased that after half a year since the first draft of this law started in public debate, it has come here on our benches. And what he is essentially in the regular procedure, that through two readings we can recognize the shortcomings of this proposal and successfully remove them. In particular, we think it is important that this law ends the story of selling state land and that, as a special national treasure from now on, can only be rented. So, even after Croatia enters the EU, our agricultural land remains a Croatian agricultural land, and if someday someone else should manage to rent that land only and exclusively with respect to the programme, that is, the economic programme in which the Republic of Croatia wants it to. The application of this law is expected, among other things, to introduce greater discipline in the re-use of agricultural land. It is defined that funds must be exclusively intended, and what we think is not good in this bill is that these funds are intended to go to the state, and 30% to local self-government units, so we suggest that in that part of the re-use of agricultural land 50% of the state, 50% of the unit of local self-government. This law defines that the decision to call a public call is made by the Agency, and the decision to hire the same agency on a proposal from the Commission. This commission consists of 3 members, 2 members from the agency and 1 member from the local self-government unit. Wouldn't it be a little more realistic to replace a member of the agency with a representative, say local advisory services, and yet the influence of local self-government units, i.e. people who know land on the ground, be somewhat greater? Article 29 shall define the composition of the economic plan and the point of evaluation thereof. According to which the ministry's announcements, there is a certain advantage to killing cattle, of course within its scope and dairy. And that relationship is accounted for in terms of conditional throat and hectare ratios. In any event, it should also be inserted into this regard that the conditional throats and hectares of all legal entities, i.e. companies and OPGs established by the same founder, are taken into account. So we don't have any O.P.G. carriers having a D.O.O. or some other form of entrepreneurship in agriculture, so on one agricultural holding there are only conditional throats, and on d.o.o. He's only got land and then he picks up the competition and he's got a head start. So consider what is now relatively easy to control through the OIB. Implementation, i.e. respect for the economic plan, shall be checked on an annual basis. Thus, the concession may be annulled, or the lease may be cancelled if the land management does not comply with the programme adopted. The law should definitely limit the maximum number of hectares of state agricultural land per holding, i.e. one founder of companies, i.e. legal entities. There it is also necessary to define the size of the production-technological unit that one agricultural entity does not happen to receive full land in one area and the other active farmers who live exclusively from agriculture remain short sleeves. Article 35 provides that State agricultural land cannot be subletted, which we welcome, but part of it in the application of the rights and obligations of the tenant where the right of the natural person can only be transferred to the heir of the first order, while that right can be transferred to all legal persons whose founder is the tenant. What happens if the OPG succeeds a legal successor who is not an heir to the first order, and his basic activity is agriculture or until that time he was even an employee of that OPG or a certain OPG holder for the purpose of the scope or expansion of the business is set up by a company that should continue his activity. Shouldn't they have the advantage of getting that part of the lease right in their name? I would end this part of the exhibition with a sentence of professors from the Faculty of Agriculture who always spoke when farmers in the Republic of Croatia can live normally from their jobs, only then will Croatia be a country of prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29396	Now, on behalf of the club, the debate will continue, the distinguished representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates and associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. This debate is about this law we welcomed with an agrarian who is able, according to the evidence this morning, during the debate, on the one hand in bad, and on the other hand in good. And I'm going to briefly just refer to what's true, what's the reality of what kind of agrarian we have today? Today we have an agrarian in which the average size of ownership is 5.6 hectares relative to the European 23.5 regardless of what was applied as we heard better law. We have an agrarian who definitely depends most on what is the height, the amount of the incentives paid, and how to pay these incentives we testify through the fact that they are constantly late, because the state budget as it loses the battle of all these years and lagging behind in financial commitments, lagging behind and having difficulties in paying off incentives. We have an agrarian where the vast majority of agricultural producers are exclusively and only products, not concerned with adding value, not owning or processing plants, farmers are not owners or distribution networks, actually live in a system where they control them large. We have an agrarian that also has a poor structure of the use of agricultural land, i.e. the poor structure of cultures, the largest surfaces are radiated with those cultures that have the lowest value. We have an agrarian who has a large number of loans-loaded properties for the supply of tractors, and in most cases the capacity and value of these tractors greatly exceeds the real needs of a particular economy. We didn't carry out the commission, we didn't create a machine ring, and we just heard, here's my question to a man who, by the way, is very nice to me, so I'll just mention him like this, and I asked Peter Chobankovic what kind of minister he was, he said good, and I'll just comment that he was about like those before him. We've got an agrarian on his nod leg in a crisis waiting for 1.7, and that's true. Why do I think that this concept which is actually completely clear through this law is the fundamental basis for this law is correct, which is that the land that remains in state property is not sold, but is leased. Because the Croatian agrarian is not ready for the purchase of this land right now and because in the opinion of us in HNS, agricultural land is as good as maritime good as forests, as well as water is a national treasure that cannot be sold out or sold out. And in the management of that wealth, you need to be very careful. We had the opposite concept for speakers of those who are for sale of agricultural land, but I am not clear from which money, of which money farmers, OPGs, Croatian peasants will buy if the ministry decides for another approach. Anyone who knows exactly what they're about, it's clear that they'll reach out to the loans. To get credit, he'll have to mortgage. It is very likely that the fields themselves, agricultural land because this is the capital of our farmers will come under mortgage. And these conditions and in the way that Croatia's Agrar functions today are completely certain, the end ends. How it goes down at the moment when the incentive is stopped according to the commitments we made from the EU so the mortgage will come into action and that I forgot that we sold the banks to foreigners. We sold the banks, and now we should sell this little land that's left. A great idea, there is nothing, the ultimate idea of being horsemen again in our own country one day, so the Croatian People's Party absolutely does not accept the concept of selling national treasures and is firmly behind the concept that it advocates that Croatian peasants or Croatian companies dealing with agricultural production are being distributed in a way that they take on a long-term lease. It was also an illusion that the provisions of this law would please the great. They mentioned themselves as big as the bogeyman, like monsters, I personally don't like them. That's what people who know me personally know and those who have been following up on some of the exhibits that I've exhibited to this House on behalf of the HNS Club. But the question arises who created them, on the basis of which concepts, which political ideas were created by great powerful ones who took over everything in their own hands. The question arises who bought those fields and those agricultural goods that were functional units, which were rounded up, which were former picks, who sold them and who created them large, powerful and positioned them in a way that today controls every Croatian peasant, every Croatian agricultural producer and that they determine the price of milk. We came to the debate at this level that parliamentary representatives who should at least be very well addressed today debate in this assembly that the minister is responsible for what did not form the price of milk that corresponds to producers in Croatia. And no one asks the question of how we made the producers who took out the loans, made stops, got cattle and didn't give them land and we know, the profession tells us that without the country, it is now seen from the drafts of this law and sublegal acts that should follow this proposal so that without the country they can't be competitive. Poland was mentioned, in Poland peasants have the same price as ours when we visited Poland, they had the same price but had no incentive. But you know what the difference is? In a specific case, dairy owners who have a daily reception capacity of 1500 tonnes of milk are farmers who bring milk into that dairy plant and those who, through the addition of value, through the production of cheese, milk products, the packaging of milk achieve the value and the dividend that it has, even in times of crisis. What do we have? We have AGRAG that depends on whether any magic of the Minister of Finance will be found in the state budget of 3 billion and 700 or a billion or 800, or a billion and 500. We have a state of finance in a country where pensions take 35 billion a year and through contributions we market 16 billion. We only need 19 billion for the difference between pension payments per year in the country. Now we're going to create an agro system, we're going to run land, we're going to run a agriculture policy in a way that every year we need one three and a half, four billion, five billion, tomorrow six not to experience social drama in Slavonia, that we don't experience social drama in Međimurje, that we don't experience social drama in Lica or anywhere else. We're talking about taking advantage of agricultural areas, ladies and gentlemen of the 1960s, in that dark age we had under the agricultural surfaces twice as big as we have today, twice as big. Today, when we had great reforms and great moves. Today every fault in the year of the term of office of the Kukuriku Government is because until the arrival of the Kukuriku Government it was great and wonderful. We're not a crowded village ready to sail through all the storms of this world. In a year, there you have brought into such a sad and sad state. You really need to have political and human courage to say everything that's been said this morning, and it seems to me that the only motive was not the profession, it wasn't the truth, it wasn't the numbers, it was the wish, it was absolutely clear in the second month since this election year was in the fifth month. Since we at the HNS are trying to lead a responsible policy, we support all the adjustments that will be proposed during the public debate, that is to say, we ask that they be considered and done what is possible in the domain of the possible situation, that the position of Croatian peasants be made look-alike and made favourable, but I do not support irresponsible policy. What the minister has set out for reforms is considered a responsible policy and we will stand behind it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29398	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. First respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29399	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's colleague Bilek, you've well established that there are priorities that should certainly be included in this law. I will refer to what both peasants and peasant associations and those at the level of local self-government units have defined in the draft legislation. This should be the case in Article 30 as the first priority and criterion for the holder of the CAP which exercise the right to work in agriculture on its own holding or owner of agricultural crafts. These people must be the most threatened by this law, those people who have a working relationship through their OPG or through their crafts, surely in the future, will not have the opportunity to be the ones to be elected. Since it is written in the law that the way in which the economic programme is evaluated in terms of determining the value and weight of each component is regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course it's a law for the big ones who'll eat small and so orderly and so sudden. We clearly talk about what the law says and what is not adopted by those proposals proposed by both peasant associations and associations of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29400	The replica matches the esteemed Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29401	My dear colleague, I would not agree that this law pleases the great one. These remarks are not respected in that form from word to word, but they are an integral part of precisely determining the economic programme through which the part is selected. Yeah, that's right. In a way, here's colleague Peter here said that we don't know how and how a great concert was created who allowed it, who allowed the privatisation of former PICs in such a way that they didn't live more than 2,3 thousand people living in that area but finally one boss who came from nowhere. I wonder whose policy it was? And believe me, this bill of law just defines that every O.P.G. would have space, was registered as an O.P.G. was registered as a craft because they were both natural persons and both. And was like a legal person or a company.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29402	Second replica, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29403	Dear counterpart Baranovic, I agree with you especially in that emphasis that this is a law of protection of national interests. There is no sale of the forest, nor the good of the sea, nor the water; and they call us to do it, and those who have done it before call us. This law I agree with you is the law of reality, truth, and what is crucial is that you have highlighted the law of the future and the law based on what our and the OPGs will do but we are talking about citizens who deal with agriculture and agrarian through this truly agrarian reform finally have the opportunity not only to seek subsidies and incentives on what these previous governments have taught them but also to give them the opportunity to earn their money with dignity, and in particular by providing them with these conditions that have added value is the value of all those who deal with production not only in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29404	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic is absolutely unacceptable to me at all to the idea that this little left over agricultural land in the national portfolio will be the subject of sale. About ten years ago, this Assembly also held a full - time debate about what was called ZERP, which was to be called the economic belt. And that's part of the national wealth we were entitled to, and we didn't reach for that right. And we didn't reach out because we weren't really looking at things, they weren't really looking at numbers, they weren't looking at facts, they were just doing politics on a slightly higher level. That day on fishing boats on dozens of fishing boats, the people I guarantee you are the hardest people in this country. Captains of fishing ships because we alienated national wealth and what belonged to generations to come. And now we should go after the concept to sell out what we have left. After we've sold the banks after we've sold everything that worked in the country except water, forest and marine goods, we'll now sell these several hundred thousand acres of real land we have for future generations. A great concept has nothing, it's a great honor for those who advocate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29406	The third line will come from a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Baranovic has one moment where I agree with you. You said the peasant didn't have any money. I agree with you exactly that there's no money to buy, but there's no money to legalize these facilities, so who's he asking? And what costs are here a few days ago we had a chance to hear about legalizing objects. But we want to warn the same for a moment that in that competition when it comes to a certain land that when the economic programme now analyzes the score, etc. that now we know what we're talking about that surely he won't be able to deal with this great one. That says enough for himself. Furthermore, you spoke of dairy, that we claim that the minister decides on the price of milk. That's not true. We're not talking about the price of milk, but let me do something for the minister to decide that I know something about. I may no longer interfere with fishing where you are stronger but to know this area and witness the daily decline of the OPG by reducing the production of milk and certainly that these people are immensely difficult. But it is simply a fact that has already been shown in those protests in February that the minister has not set himself quality in these negotiations. Regulation 261EU of 2012 states that milkers should be provided with the existence and development. In this part was to be placed and there were many models and ways to help this milkman and peasant in various ways, but they were simply left in the deleted space and in this part I warn that the minister did not set himself up well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29408	And this replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29409	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Milinkovic, I am very pleased that you agree with me in some things. Just as I respect and appreciate your concern for the milkman and for the people in your neighborhood, that's very commendable. The issue is not only of dairy but of all Croatian farmers, it is primarily a question of the real concept of agricultural production, and the fact that it has not been reached today. And we all know very well in this House the truth, that when we start strictly from 1.7, we respect what we negotiated through negotiations, and I know very well the details, especially in Chapter 13, that all our farmers and my fishermen will get into big problems because for years we have fooled and ignored the fact that the day will come when this income component will at least be reduced, and in some situations it will completely disappear from the income section in the business of Croatian farmers and fishermen, and that is the problem of Croatian milkmen. And whether or not a minister will react more or less at a certain point depends on the episode to the episode. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29410	The last replica and respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29411	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Baranovic, you spoke about the lease, possibilities for malversion, etc. and today we hear almost all day about how, in fact, by disabling the sale of agricultural land to Croatian peasants, we are actually saving from the sale, sale of Croatian property, etc. And now you've accused us of selling it all out. And then I wonder if I'm sitting here in this House at all when we listen to all this coming from the left and all the suggestions that come from that side. So I wonder what's the difference between agricultural land and this single bank, let's say, that we have, that you want to sell a lot. What is the difference between this land and Croatia's insurance that you want to sell so badly? What's the difference between that and the fact that you recently gave us the Electricity Act here where you transfer the entire infrastructure to HEP and who knows what's going to happen tomorrow. If that's true, is it coming from the CNS, it's coming. And now we're putting one of the peasants who wants to put this country on the defense of everything bad or the sale of our farm property because he's the only one who can abuse it. What we're talking about, so that man just wants to live, wants to work on what he's doing in some way to survive in these moments he's living today. And you're talking about the sale, and all policy, especially fiscal, is based on the sale of everything that's left of the state property. Well, I don't understand that. Then let's be consistent and defend the sale of anything or public property. Why are you monetizing the highways then, why, that's the question. That's the need then, we have to save the budget. So why don't we save the budget here and sell... that agricultural land. Well, then, that's a defense against what I don't know. I mean, be consistent with that, and when something...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29412	Time. The last answer to the last replica and the esteemed representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, let's take a turn. The highways are not sold, they're rented eventually. It's a little strange for me that you don't see the difference between the bank you cited as an example, land, water, forest, marine goods. These are public goods and national treasures that are here, and if it's by someone else's side, we'll lose them. Banks come and go, governments pass, fall, rise, policies change, empires fail, but the grante on which Dudek is mentioned with his Regica this morning must remain in Croatian ownership for future generations. And that is why the position of the CNS, I repeat once again, is that the Croatian peasant, and even the least through the corrections that can absolutely be the subject of the debate, enables them to live off that grant, to round up their property, but that the Croatian state does not lose control of the remaining natural resources and resources it has because if it does sell out, then it really becomes groundless this whole story today. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29414	Comrade Boric, don't throw it out of the bench. It's not just anti-business, it's rude. The Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm taking the opportunity to thank...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29416	Ministers, please choose here as a pay phone if you've come forward on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleague Baranović for the further emphasis of one of the fundamental intensities of this law, which is that agricultural land as well as water, as well as the forests that are in this vault are the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia and must not be the subject of sales as such. When we talk about providing existence and development, it seems to me that you have said, this is not about additional interventions of 0.42 lira per litre, by additional pumping of funds that you do not have in the budget for these purposes, or by giving agricultural land to agricultural producers that they can produce on it. Honored counterpart Djakic said that the proposal of some associations, i.e. producers, was to condition that the OPGs and OPG owners with permanent employment have priority. I'm sorry that it wasn't a priority as defined in the current law and that it wasn't treated that way. If you took a closer look at Article 29 of paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Economic Programme, then you will see how many times as one of the parameters on which the economic programme will be assessed and the data on applicants, the description of the economy, the employment data, the professional storage of call participants, the number of employees as one of the conditions for obtaining agricultural land. Unfortunately, so far, we have had the opportunity to pass people of older age who have had the only recommendation here that they were related to any of the members of the commission or the president of the council or the commissioner. There was a situation that people working in the public administration as police officers, as tax inspectors, as employees of local or regional self-government also received agricultural land whether they could sell or rent, buy or rent. These are things that this economic program won't be able to do. It will define exactly the priorities in this sponsorship of the economic programme for people who live and work actively on agriculture will be priority. Not big, not small, but those who know, will and can live and work from agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29418	A new circle of replicas. First respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29419	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, you said now again that agricultural land as well as forest and forest will not and must not be sold. A colleague from the HNS also strongly advocated the concept of this Law, which is a concept not sold but leased. Either you, or you don't know what the law says or you don't tell the truth because I'm reading article 50 of your bill that says sales by direct contract. So, you're giving up the sale by public tender, but you're keeping the sale by direct contract. And now you state in which cases. So you're talking about cadastar particles bordering land owned by applicants, etc. etc. I'm asking the questions that he's been at war if someone has 20 ha of some land and a neighboring particle why could he buy the next 10 ha with a direct contract? Why doesn't he go on lease like everyone else under this law? Tell me why for the cadastral particles for which the construction documentation has been obtained, why, in a long lease of up to 50 years, this object cannot be built, but it will be purchased by direct contract. Why is it when it comes to another economic function that is not agricultural and is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia? Who will establish that interest, which is an investment project in such an interest that a direct contract sells him the most valuable agricultural land and a series of these that I don't now count because I don't have time. But you tell me how you say it won't be and shouldn't be sold when a whole article lists six cases of unknown to me ratia that it can be sold and not sold through a public tender, but through a direct contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29420	Now here's what Minister Jakovina will tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we didn't have an existing sale law but a sale of agricultural land by very vague criteria. We're only talking about small, edged plots here. We in Slavonia would say that these are areas that are dedicated to the social, health, and other areas with the aim of rounding. We're not talking about areas that are significant, technologically, productively when you're talking about 10 ha. We are talking about small, marginal plots and here it is precisely in Article 50, which are criteria and what are the conditions and when can be. And it's logical to sell a small part if you can't access that surface and stuff. It is precisely defined as and in what way with one single objective, which is the rounding of agricultural production. 5.6 ha is the average size of our agricultural property in the Republic of Croatia. Far, far below the EU average surface. If we don't circle the agricultural surfaces we won't have competitive production, we won't be able to invest in irrigation projects and all that for demanding working-intense cultures that are looking for it, so the aim is to round it up until we have a good model of cohesion and other things by which we can round up the agricultural area one of the species is this. But we're talking about small border plots of a few hundred squares that have a significant number in local self-government systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29422	Another replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we have removed all the possibilities that there is a sale in this law that is defined by these articles which is a colleague of what she said. Namely, but there is one more thing that has been deleted from this law by eradicating the programme on the availability of agricultural land. In this programme, units of local self-government were in line with their land capacities and gave as much as they could per one natural person or OPG or one legal person. It's gone. Now one can come into one municipality and rent all the land that will have an economic programme adequate to this one will have the most employees, will have the best offer, will have the most tractors, will have the most means of transport, will have all the most. He'll have the most money to buy the agency's decision to get 60 points. It's just as strictly translated as it's going to happen in reality. And that's why we're complaining. That's why we're the only ones who object. The farmers are rebelling. You're causing really again the peasant protests we don't need and I'm not the advocate of them. You don't need this poor country that's wrong and its economy is protesting again, blocking the roads again. You're challenging what doesn't need in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29424	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29425	Thank you, esteemed colleague. The economic programme has precisely defined in two articles the priorities to be made for the possibility of obtaining agricultural land in the lease. One of my colleagues, and I think, in the opening part, we said that this law brings much more responsibility, a colleague of Horvat observed it well. The program did not release a set of wishes on paper based on which to receive a lease and will not be controlled. It obliges each agricultural producer to act on that economic programme. If he does not work, and the agencies and inspections will work control will lose the lease and will be the one who will work responsibly and in quality on that agricultural area. This argument that the economic programme and the new law are a problem and a reason for support. I don't think so. At no time have all the serious agricultural producers that have produced until now, regardless of the results they have had on their family economies because of the criteria they have had on agricultural land and on whose interests they have not come into the situation so that they can obtain the agricultural areas they need for production. This law based on the results of its family economies based on plans and what they have realised so far and what they think they are doing will be in a much better situation than they have been in current competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29426	We will also hear the last replica of the respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's when Mr. Minister, you and my colleague Baranovic thanked you so well, I'd also like to join you here for this joy. It's nice to understand each other in a way that's wrong. And what happens to Croatian agriculture is mostly livestock and dairy, which I often refer to as evil. But I volunteered for the replica more because of what you probably alluded to me for those 42 June milk interventions. If you had fought for this support, which you didn't, there would have been 42 June and they would have prevented it, they would have significantly prevented these difficulties. And I'm holding you, you're the Minister of Agriculture, you're not the Minister of Finance, you're the Minister of Agriculture, the Milky Way, the Cattleman, all the rest of them, that in that part you should have simply fought for that part, and surely you'd be a little less difficult. But the bigger problem is that in those negotiations, when there were negotiations between cattlemen and the dairy industry, you were biased. That's how the village sees you, I'm transferring you from the village biasedly, so they've even called you Minister Lactalis from miles away. Here and let's say now this milk package that Regulation 261 is talking about, you're simply refusing to put into this rule a simple possibility that these buyers should make an offer. Well, he's saying the same thing enough for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29428	And this replica is answered by Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representative, an intervention measure of 42 June is something that belongs to the category of horizontal support measures that we cannot and cannot give, had a limited time limit until we were allowed to give it. Even the measure which expired at the 10th month of 2011 did not pay, i.e. the resolution minister did not pay, but stayed paid for the 8th, 9th and 10th months last year. Even the measure you are referring to where you helped farmers you did not meet when you could and should. 50 limes of historical law per litre of milk still remains, we pay it as such and that is the support that is only for our agricultural producers. When my colleague Baranovic spoke about the experiences of Polish producers who are associated with producer groups, organisations, cooperatives, which have added value, which have a full circled cycle, this is the way of the future of our producers. Not in intervention measures, not in the additional bathing of the budget had them or did not have them. If we hadn't spent on other things in previous years when agricultural producers and the food industry were to be well prepared to join the EU today, we wouldn't be in this situation. The interventions are not further prepared and through this law, through agricultural land to be more competitive and better as agricultural producers yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29430	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first came to my word, dear colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29431	Thank you, Vice President. I will support this bill because the current situation in agriculture is unsustainable, and agriculture has huge development potential for Croatia. In fact, I believe that if every country wants to be independent and self-employed, that is to say, it is age-old to provide all its citizens and citizens with a sufficient amount of medical proper water, sufficient quantities of quality food and sufficient energy. In all three of these key areas, Croatia still has a lot of work to do because, as we all know here, we do not produce enough food, we do not produce enough energy, and in the water sector we have a lot of work to do. Only in this way will we become a truly independent and self-sufficient state. The role of the state as I see it is to ensure sufficient amounts of water, food and energy for its population, but also to ensure that water, food and energy are healthy, quality and long-term sustainable. In order to achieve this, we need good and real strategies and I am primarily thinking about the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, the Strategy for the Protection of Water Resources and the Energy Strategy. And the fact is that we have all these strategies but that these strategic documents are mostly dead letters on paper for a number of reasons. Either because they were not realistically planned or because there was no political will to be realized or simply were not good and concrete with elaborate tactical implementation tools. During today's debate, opposition MPs often spoke of the necessity of the existence of a strategy for the development of agriculture because it is a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of quality, sustainable, real and enforceable agricultural policy. I agree with them because the fact that we don't know where we want to come is that we're going to have a hard time getting there. In this regard, I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture is working on the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture because it is a key reform, and that reform is possible if we have a strategic document that implements this reform, i.e. which is a pathway to this reform, and I hope that this strategy will have a period of 10 or even 20 years, because the continuity of the agricultural policy of Croatia is unquestionably necessary. It is my impression that this bill contradicts the opinion of most opposition MPs, which we are today discussing for good luck in our first reading because such documents should be discussed in regular procedure, they can see the basic outlines of the future Agriculture Development Strategy. Why am I saying that? Because this bill shows the strategic ambition of the Government and the Ministry to place themselves in the position of a large area of currently unused agricultural areas, to round up the currently fragmented and small agricultural economies and to result in a causal increase in food production in Croatia, and I hope quality food and to suspend and simplify agricultural practices and procedures. That's a good start. I would also advise the ministry to start from a map of land and a map of the distribution of agricultural cultures when defining the development strategy, so that our strategy is environmentally acceptable and in terms of respecting the rules of indigenousity and biodiversity of species. This is particularly important in terms of increasing the share of organic or organic agriculture, which is to remind agriculture with added value, and not only in terms of economic profitability because of the higher price of such products or food, but also because of health benefits from the consumption of such food for our population. I am pleased that the way in which the economic programme is evaluated also involves a positive point in organic agriculture, although I believe that the maximum 8 points for the provider of such agricultural practice, while the current projection of the ministry for the future regulation is too little if we want to raise the current 2% of the eco-agriculture to about 10% of the total agricultural production over the next 5 years. And I'm sure we can. I am afraid, however, that only this criterion of evaluation and points will not be sufficient, and I propose to the ministry that the strategy for the development of agriculture also includes a map of the ecological agriculture of Croatia, which will say exactly on which areas of state ownership, and based on the soil analysis, there is a possible ecological agriculture, that the state defines exactly certain agricultural cultures that it wants in these areas, and that such defined areas can be leased exclusively for those who want to produce this particular culture. In fact, Croatia will not be far away in the field of organic agriculture, but also in general agriculture unless certain forms of state interventionism are installed instead of the principle of volunteerism, i.e. volunteerism. In order to care for stable economic legs, the state needs to organise a network of green kiosks and connect this type of agriculture with sustainable tourism. Also in order to protect current eco-producers, i.e. already having organic production on the leased surfaces, I propose to the Ministry that Article 31 correct it so that it reads: "The current owner who is registered in the register of eco-producers has the right to take advantage of the purchase of particles currently being processed, which are listed in the Arkod and which are generated by an eco-production incentive if he accepts the highest price offered." I would also suggest increasing the amount of compensation for the re-use of agricultural areas, on all grounds, because unfortunately the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction does not know the Institute of Positional Rents and we must protect agricultural, agricultural land as an extremely valuable resource. In Article 8, I propose that the soil analysis database be shared with the environmental protection agency, i.e. with the AZO. Because AZO is the main database for the environment, and here is the soil analysis, i.e. soil bases are extremely important data for the environmental protection agency. Please ask the applicant to explain why investors in golf projects are exempt from paying compensation? Because it's not clear to me that there's some kind of regulation because as far as I can see, we've abolished the Golf Courses Act, which defines golf courses as projects of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. I also don't understand why the decision in Article 26 isn't an administrative act. Namely, if this decision is not an administrative act which is then a legal remedy for those who wish to complain about this decision? The penalties seem rather small to me although I assume that you were governed by legal laws, i.e. in the area of justice, which I find particularly in Articles 68 and 70. And finally, I hope that this law that we are discussing today is, I say, good news is that we are discussing first reading, just the beginning of the necessary agricultural reform, and that the Ministry of Agriculture will also consider the possibility that incentives will be paid to our farmers according to the quantity and quality of the food produced, not on the surfaces. And finally, I hope that we will have good results in implementing the nitrate directive because we seem to be quite late in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29432	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. The first is Vice-President of the Parliament, Honored Representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29433	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Holy, agree with you and the dilemma regarding Article 24 of the release of payment of repurpose land for golf courses if this is strategically likely to be seen in some other legislative proposals of certain competent ministries and can understand and support it. However, I would also like to use the opportunity that, on Article 21(2) where the purpose of agricultural land is changed, it is considered to be the construction of sports fields and facilities, perhaps the addition, I would release the same golf courses as if they were released, but if these are sports facilities and fields of public interest. In the local community, we build sports, playgrounds, sports grounds, meaning that they are not exclusively commercial purposes such as golf, so here is a clear suggestion if it can be installed into the existing text of the law and that part means liberating the reuse for the construction of sports fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29434	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29435	I absolutely agree with you, and I believe that the same rules of the game must apply equally to everyone, and if that applies to sports facilities, that is, sports courts, then or all must be exempt from paying the fee, or everyone must pay the fee, regardless of whether it is tennis or golf.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29436	The next replica is respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29437	Dear colleagues, Holly, I fully agree and shortly before, a fellow vice president of the assembly said that a change of agricultural land should be penelased especially in building land. First of all, because this re-use is a very lucrative business and these land re-uses from agricultural to construction land deal with a very lucrative lobby, a lobby that has a great influence in all governments, in all levels of government, in local and state government. The agricultural land sales profile is unfortunately still low, but it is therefore very high when it is converted to building land. These people are not interested in anything other than profits, they're not interested in agricultural production or if we're going to import agricultural products from China, say garlic or we're going to produce it ourselves, hire an army of 400 thousand unemployed. It is often suspected that a series of fires actually along the Adriatic coast were actually set up just so that this land could be repurposed into building land so that what you said in this segment of your debate and with most of your debate I agree and fully support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29438	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29439	Dear colleague Vuksic, you're right. Although this issue is not so much about this law, it is about the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. And as far as I know, it has been announced that it will soon go into the procedure of the new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. I hope that the resolution ministry will also consider certain instruments of protection of our space, not only of agricultural areas but also of green zones and similar to such forms of land speculation and manipulation of spatial plans and some of the experiences from other countries which are also in the coastal area where such practices are particularly reflected, have regulated it with a positional rent instrument where an investor who allows land change through some spatial plan allows a certain real time limit for the implementation of that project to be implemented and if this does not happen then the spatial plan returns to its original state or such investor must pay the difference between the value of the land that was at that time and the one that existed in construction. I think that would put a lot of order in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29440	Thank you very much. The last replica is that respected representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Holly, you have asked the Minister questions, and you are asking for an answer, which is why the golf course investor is being released from paying the land re-use fee. It'll be interesting to hear the answer, and I'll remind you what you said in 2010. Years on the same subject. I quote: "With this law, the area of predators is transferred to valuable unbuilt land and natural resources mainly in the coastal area, and therefore every responsible politician and politician must stand up to the sharpest. As a responsible party, the SDP is most resolutely resisting it and therefore we will not support the adoption of this law or any other law that exempts and favours the construction of a golf course from all other projects." I'm very interested in how you vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29442	The answer will be given by the esteemed representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29443	My dear colleague, I didn't accidentally discuss this subject during today's debate. My views haven't changed at all since then, and I still think it's inadmissible, but I suppose in this law they took the provisions of this current law where it also stands, and where we also talked about it while we were in opposition. I think if he wants to decide not to charge a fee for certain sports grounds, then it should be worth it for everyone and that golf must not be taken out of it at all. The rules of the game must apply equally to everyone. And I feel sorry for him that HDZ representatives and MPs are changing their views depending on whether they are in opposition or in position. Well, I'm not like him, so I'm sure I won't support him like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29444	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be attended by a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with their associates. So here's what we're saying is that repeating the mother of knowledge even though there's already been a lot of talk in this long-term debate about the very reasons for this law being passed. I think that some things are still important to underline once again, even though I will try to be maximumly summed up by the respected minister's time, but also by this home. So as far as I'm aware, the last amendment to this law took place in 2011 and then out of 110 articles, how much of the law at the time it contained changed more than 50, it says that the law was missing, and I think it is now. The law did not encourage the use of the country, which did not encourage an increase in production, and I think the evidence, are precisely figures and I am sorry that Mr. Cobankovic is not here now. We note, therefore, a steady decline in agricultural production and an increase in imports over the previous years, which therefore confirms this argument. Also, the distribution of land, mostly managed by local self-government units, of course, with the agreement of the ministry, has often been burdened with relation to the relatives, which is actually sad. And here some colleagues and colleagues say you will now be hearing from some great players, etc., etc. But I'm asking you what does it change in principle? When you had one farmer farmer and at the tender he could get a certain fund of the country maximum and at the tender appeared his liver, the curtain, neighbor, friend, brother and they were also getting a maximum fund of the country which de facto processed this entrepreneur. So we'll just legalize what's already happened. It is also an option to express myself to a few countries, so that is what the minister himself was talking about, so I would not owe less than 30% of the potentially farmed land there and... as I also think my colleague Baranovic has elaborated it very well, so there is no need for me to repeat the problems we will face when we join the EU. So, we really have another million hectares of farmland, so we're not talking about Golo Island and similar locations, but what could have really been entered into the register of arable agricultural land that we won't be able to get incentives from the moment we enter the EU, and that fund will be reduced. I therefore believe that this law allows for an increase in agricultural production and a reduction in the need for imports. The important thing is that the country cannot be sold. Of course, there are exceptions to this, the minister said something, but this is a provision of this government that I welcome, that agricultural land is a strategic resource, a national treasure that should not be touched. So some colleagues seem to be chasing what it means to rent or give in a concession and what it means to sell. When you sell something, it's irrevocable. What's in the concession can always be returned. The 7-year moratorium, therefore, is also for the sale of private land to foreigners, so I would dare say perhaps some of the principles established by other countries in particular by the transitions that have entered the EU. Economic programmes and monitoring of their realisation should be a guarantee of greater land utilisation and only monitoring, therefore production processes on that agricultural area. It will therefore give only one lever to the government, or to the resolution ministry, through which it will be able to monitor the efficiency of land exploitation. In the debate so far, we have heard several times that a good agrarian policy is actually a prerequisite for greater usability, then all I can say is that so far we have had a bad agricultural policy, that we have not created preconditions in order to have a good agricultural policy and I think this law is going in the direction of ensuring the preconditions for good agricultural policy by protecting the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia in this case these are the strategic resources of farm-based land. The incoherence of land books is also a problem, I have already said something about it, but I believe that the legitimate efforts of this government will also go in the direction that these problems will be resolved soon. Finally, I would like to point out two more things in particular, and this is an article 24 which I certainly welcome where the investor is exempt from paying the fees provided for in Article 21st of the Law in a number of cases, including in the construction of buildings for scientific activities, health and social care institutions. But I also think that the legislator well left that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can exempt from the obligation to pay compensation for changing the purpose for projects of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, so in the cases of some state institution, they are building something that is not necessarily counted in these provisions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can stand behind it. Article 51 also states that agricultural land is to be item 2. Article 51 states that agricultural land owned by the State can be used for the purposes of professional and scientific teaching, rehabilitation, socialisation or other agricultural purposes for up to 25 years. There may only be suggestions for the legislator to consider potentially increasing this deadline when it comes to scientific institutions. All in all, I don't owe any more, I think the law is going in the right direction, and this reading should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29446	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused three replicas. She's the first one to represent Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, you said that the law did not encourage the country's "use" quote, I'm afraid that's not the right expression that this is not in Croatian, but good. I'll tell you you're wrong. I already said that 1200 hectares of land in the Benkovac area 97% is operational, which means that the existing law has allowed and given the opportunity for land to be operational and processed. And since you've quoted a lot of articles in this law, I wish you'd quoted Article 65(2) that say that local self-government units have to hire agricultural directors. I wonder whose account?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29448	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague, I'd like you to say what exactly are the provisions of this bill that contribute to improving the usability of agricultural land compared to the current law? That's the first one. Secondly, you said it was a non-transparent lease, etc. I don't know what you were thinking. You like to probably think of the previous government of the law that she passed and the parliamentary majority in the past council but you often like to boast that you are in power in many units of local self-government and you have not forgotten that the decision on the assignment has so far been made by municipal and city councils, so those who have exercised authority at the local level. And then I ask, was it against the law, and is it now with this proposal somewhere that one man should not, say, be contacted to hire a country in that same village, let's say his brother-in-law or family? I don't see it forbidden by this law. Of course, it would be unconstitutional if and forbidden would be unconstitutional and therefore neither this law nor that law did so. Whether corruption in implementation was other mechanisms that should be dealt with in the ranks of all policy options.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29450	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, I think the agency is about to improve the efficiency of the distribution of agricultural land, i.e. its usability, since it will be responsible for implementing this law, i.e. putting it into use of agricultural land. I believe that the economic criteria for renting agricultural land are very good, so you will have to have an economic plan that clearly requires you to expose how you intend to exploit the land, produce and the like. I didn't say a word to my colleagues that the government or the government had passed to be more specific, that they were doing something illegal or something like that. No, but I'm saying that the units of local self-government and there was certainly abuse, used family ties and other forms of kinship, partnerships, and so on to reverse the original purpose of the law. If you're restricting someone's maximum agricultural land fund that they can farm, then I don't see the point of showing up to a whole series of people who are de facto going to be working one man. So no one defends, of course, there may be two brothers who deal with agriculture but are different economies, to report to the competition, to get them, to have good economic programmes. So first of all, there are economic criteria that can only be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29452	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, I'm glad you taught us these names of locals, curtains, livers, we say brother-in-laws, etc., and you probably meant to confirm by that that many of our roommates, ladies, I come from such an environment, a successful carrier of the OPG. Unfortunately, every day is less and less. That's what we need to underline. And I agree with you that some of the things that were said today in this debate should be underlined, and you said that there was a drop in agricultural production and you alluded to the mandate of Minister Cobankovic. No, I want to correct you, at that time there was an increase in agricultural production in dairy, I said 150 million liters from 2003 to 2010, numerous stops were built or renovated and many other indicators. The decline in production is now in this time of 13 months and it is immeasurably, the production of milk 30%, meat etc., it is one signal and alarm for alarm. And then you say this law will increase that agricultural production, and what about when we talk about specifics that don't have agricultural land like I come from such an environment, they don't have agricultural land to dispose of. There are therefore other measures that can stimulate agricultural production, increase and support themselves as such have contributed. Of course, the entry costs certainly, and here you have contributed to the increase, the prices of the energy, the prices of everyone else, so what affects that price for sure... without talking about the price of milk where I spoke 10 times today, I underline again, where it has not been quality set up, has not been put aside by the dairy producer and this has led to a disaster in the dairy industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29454	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Hajdukovic will respond to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, sir, dear colleague, I didn't mean to teach you, but perhaps I could teach you the Rules of Procedure. The Replica Institute is to replicate on what I said, you've had your debate, but good. You say successful women entrepreneurs have many. So if we look at statistical data, very few women who are actually farmers, if we look at it in some global scale. I don't doubt that there are any of them at all, but dear fellow you're killing yourself, so you say then the very essence of the past law is killed if you're forcing an entrepreneur to resort to such conditions that his relatives, neighbors, partners, appear so that he can even reach the land fund he needs. I did not only allude to the mandate of Minister Cobankovic, but he was at least a relatively short agriculture minister in his term, so it has another genealogy but could be discussed. And you said you came from a place where there's no state, so it's all private property. So it's a model your club supports and I don't see a problem there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29456	Thank you very much. Here's when we all get along so nicely we can move on to another debate, and it's an individual debate by distinguished representative Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29457	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The agricultural land law is extremely important because if we look back a few years, it is likely that agricultural products and food are the most expensive part of the price and we see that they grow more and more every day. Documentation can live without some things, without food you can't. What we said on behalf of the IDS Club that we support are two things, which is that there's no sale of agricultural land, there's no lease and there's no redundancy that has the sound of meddling with land. The part that's already a little bit less clear and I don't think it's very good is in the introduction to explain why this law is passed. So two things are constantly mentioned, first it's said that it's done because 500 and some cities and local self-government, 74 or something like that didn't pass that law. So it's less than 15%, and if the law is done because they couldn't do it, then the state had to react in that case. It's not the basic goal and the idea of going at the speed of the slowest train. And the other thing that is even worse, I've already mentioned earlier, is that there's always talk about going into this law because at a local level, Malta doesn't criminally give land over some kind of family, etc. I've mentioned before that it's an insult to local community representatives. There are people here in the councils from one side and the other, people who were when it was voted on, and I think it's inappropriate to talk about it. Does this mean that the agency that thinks will form the most important item in the CV will be that someone should not have a cousin, a friend or any other. Furthermore, we have heard that the rebalancing will go and that one of the basic things will be that agencies reduce both the funds and the number of people. I don't see it exactly because I don't believe that a couple of people from one agency can do a good job, but I'm not going to talk about the technical parts of agriculture, it's a lot said, but it's some kind of spirit of this law, which is that instead of decentralisation, it's going in the direction of centralised. Unfortunately, he has joined up with some other laws, like the Law on Forest Land, where suddenly after 20 years the state wants to register with us in Pula Prvomajska street, buildings, etc. And not to say what they might say is forest land which is not a forest in cities. It's a park. I mean, between a park and a forest that cuts for wood is a very important difference. No one can tell me that in one Rovinj state can do better as far as the Golden War is concerned than the mayor or residents of Rovinj, or that in Pula, a Sian forest that is already better organised by the European Union than the city of Pula. I believe that this approach and, of course, centralization are also encouraged by a recent law where hospitals that are not their own fault and most of the local community's guilt are not being brought I'm not going to say exactly on a beggar stick but not too far from it. I think this law should go in the direction of decentralisation. The decentralisation direction is next. First of all, someone has asked decentralisation can be fiscal about money and there can always be a question of which part. For the country, however, it is undoubtedly clear where it is. If the country in Istria is in Istria, it is clear that it is not somewhere in the Gorski kotar, Slavonia or elsewhere. So I think decentralisation could go in a way that doesn't take the State's resources. In addition, of course, the state needs to be compensated in some way, but I think that these funds that are paid by the gender should go to the local community, one quarter to the county, and one quarter to the state. Furthermore, in the direction of decentralisation it should be seen that the land is agriculturally located within the construction area to actually belong to the local community. It's not a pre-purpose where some half-breeder gets the money. It's the funds that remain for the local community, it's the means to sell that land, and those means are used for everything that doesn't come from the state level. So, for building roads, for building capital facilities, etc. There can also be no manipulation because every spatial plan that any city or county has to pass through all ministries and has to get approval amongst other things and the Ministry of Agriculture, so it can't be said that something was done that didn't know about it. Furthermore, as far as agriculture is concerned, we have heard many times that the role of agriculture throughout Croatia is not the same. In Istria there are mostly small areas and there is, for example, no such thing in this law, and some local communities in Istria had a limit that someone could not buy over some size of a particular area because in Istria we defined ourselves not for the areas of the large where the combination would go from morning to dark. We are known for the production of healthy food, the vine vine, olive oil. But the point of olive oil is that you don't only have one factory that produces one olive oil whatever it's called, but that you have olive roads where each farmer has his own type of olive oil where you can choose. Same for the vine. As I was responding earlier in the afternoon, an example of centralised management is seen from the following, which is given a year’s ban on living up to the state land and what remained, so the large land areas that are now questionable whether after 1.7 they could be used for the purpose for which they were meant, which is that our winemakers think there will be no problem with the olive trees, but the winemaker and the building could be. Will there ever be a chance to plant that vine more? I think that the awakening of different agencies that are going to do that, so people who aren't famous, and in the end when we talk about these economic plans, at least in small places, and so everyone knows and everyone knows if anyone's been dealing with it for generations, what it does, etc. I'm not quite sure that some farmer will be successful in writing an economic plan like someone else who knows where they'll come from or who'll have behind him who knows what kind of office or size to take over in that way. There were also remarks that there were some problems in Istria with the DORH, etc. Pula as a city is really not a big city as far as land is concerned. Maltene, when you move from the center of Pula, you already come to another municipality. But Vodnjan, located north of Pula, gave 460 ha. It was a contract of nearly 300 and a lease, I think it was a lease of course and not a single observation by the DORH, and it was usually only in the process of two complaints, and it was two neighbors who argued over an olive grove of 10 meters, which is usually what happens. So I think what's been said before by the IDS club we're capable and we know how to manage the land. Our land is not only for agriculture because of a clean diet, but as you can see recently Istria and the whole of Croatia has also become a hit destination. People come because of different events. People come because of wine roads, olive oil, healthy food. We're asking smaller farmers, so not that they're huge, so they're vast, but smaller farmers to get a chance to do that. And I think our local self-government, that they know they're capable of doing it better than the ministry. Once again, it has already begun to be insulting to the extent that local administrations are saying something is going on. I have much more trust in local administrations in Istria than in some agency that will come to us and who knows what rule to share the country by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29458	Thank you very much. We have five replicas. She's the first one to represent Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Boluncic about centralization, decentralisation. Article 44(2) states that the Minister prescribes the purpose of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article which are the income of the unit of local self-government, although it seems to me to be prescribed under the previous law. But even if it was in the past law, it doesn't mean it's good. I don't think it's until the end or constitutional. And it's definitely not, I mean according to the local self-government declaration. So you're prescribing what the local self-government unit is going to spend their money on. The second thing you mentioned was land in a construction zone that should belong to a local self-government unit. My colleague Tyreli seemed to have a representative question to whom I do not know, whether it was Minister Milenić or Minister Jakovina and from her, or from the answer she received, it is evident that in the Republic of Croatia it means more or less in all units of local self-government we have a problem primarily with Croatian forests. So, everything that was in the building zone according to the spatial plans of the former municipalities, and it was on a forest-economic basis through the State's Attorney's Office, the Republic of Croatia all books as if it were its property. And now we have to initiate court proceedings and prove that it's the property of a local self-government unit. So, we've been talking to the State's Attorney's Office, but unfortunately, we don't have a good match. I don't know the ministers through changes to the forest law whether we can do something about it, but I assure you it means we won't be able to withdraw funds for projects at local self-government level because of unresolved property-legal relations. So unless it's clean, there's no money for local projects. And the third thing you mentioned was wine roads, olive roads. I'm afraid since the economic programme is the foundation and carries up to 60 points that people who are on the lease, who have raised years of plantation, means whether it's vineyards, whether it's olive groves and especially those who have built oil or wineries that will have a factory without having raw materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29460	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Representative Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29461	So, as far as forest land is concerned, the truth is, in high school, we still call it the first - century street because it's a street that's usually from the Roman era. So it was probably just before that street was built than it was forest. And as far as the economic programme is concerned, he's very important. Today and healthy food must be produced in a way that brings income. But you know when you're in the local community on the commission sometimes it's better to give a man a hand and see if his yellow hand is from processing olives than if there's something holding water on the 10 pages of paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29462	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've made an excellent point about this agricultural land within the construction area's borders in the settlements. I'm going to talk about this later on about the problem of collapsing the definition of construction and agricultural land, but now it really turns out that it's going to have to reroute something that's been in the area in the construction area for 200 years just as you mentioned forests and parks and so on. The more this re-use is now somewhere between the reasons and the purpose for which payment of re-use fees may be freed somewhere, the municipal infrastructure has disappeared, so the compensation for re-use can be freed or released when public roads are built, but let's say other facilities of municipal infrastructure such as sewerage, water network, public surfaces, etc. It's not there. But now it has come to be released in the construction of buildings for scientific and educational activities, health care, social care institutions. However, it is not said whether it is non-profit institutions because, for example, it can be an office of plastic surgery that is very good and profitable and I see no reason why it should be released, and it is quite another question if it is a non-profit establishment, which is part of public health, etc. And I am also warning of a collapsing from Article 51 which speaks of giving to the use without a public call where these explicits are left only for those institutions which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, the text is this inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29464	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of the Honorable Vice-President of Parliament, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29465	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned in your presentation of the role of the local community, i.e. the distribution of funds, and you made one criticism as far as I realized that why the ministry prescribed or from the debate could be read. What about those units of local self-government that don't even have squares, so to speak, state agricultural land, and they also have an obligation to have municipal redistribution and to maintain the mines, to prescribe agrotechnical measures, etc., etc.? So I would disagree with you here that the minister should prescribe and not be afraid of these means because they are derived from the lease of agricultural land or the reuse of state land, etc. As for the general view of the law, however, there was the most debate on state land, but when looked at in the structure 33%, according to data, agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and two-thirds privately owned. I can agree with whether it's a million and two hundred, whether it's less etc., etc. But okay, that's statistics. It's probably a catastre. But what I would expect and probably there are certain strategies, is that through rural development, is that through some decisions from the competent ministry that are private-owned agricultural land? I come from Hrvatska Zagorje, a debossed plot where the largest plot is around 0.20 and some hectares. There is the potential of agricultural production by the more I tried and as mayor in 2008 to round some 500 hectares of agricultural land. Unfortunately, I had no tools or instruments of course financial support was also lagging behind. What in these situations? And there's potential for the development of agricultural production. And I think that in that part of it, if not in this now text of the law, and I primarily understand that the state land has to be arranged and it's commendable, to consider in due course what with two-thirds of the agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29466	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29467	Yes, as far as the fee is concerned, I was talking about two types of compensation. So there's one fee when you're renting land where half of it's supposed to be here. I said half should stay in the local community, 25% county and 25% state. Pula as such does not have a large area, so if it is not some cities that have more to kill almost all the money they have received so far, with one third was spent on solving property, geodetics, etc. Because there's a very, very messy hereditary thing out there, so that's one of that kind. So you wouldn't get much out of rent. The second fee is what the state should give because the cities are parts of this country free of charge. So what's in the building area that's already gone through the plan is ownership of the local community, and by selling it, it's got nothing but a public tender that's then a dedicated income that the local community can use for, so building roads, plumbing, gas, sewerage, what's going for municipal income, that's where I thought it was. But once again, there is no sale of land and re-use if it happens, which is not to be released to cities should therefore be paid as said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29468	Thank you very much. We now have a replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Boluncic, for a little while, you were talking about this issue of cousins and things like that. I think it's also my colleague Lovrin and I that we've elaborated well enough. So, first of all, it wouldn't be constitutional to ban someone from coming to the competition, but by law so far, you've simply forced people to bend the original intent of the law. So, if there was a limited fund of land to which one, one person may report they were forced simply to look for how to reach it. That limits you later on as far as the loan is concerned. Not necessarily, because de facto if one person does it she has the raw materials she needs but in different ways. So I believe this will only make life easier for some people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29470	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica of the respected representative Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29471	We're not talking about whether it's going to be an old law today or whether it's going to be a new one. We're talking about a new law today and we're making suggestions so he can be better. So I'm not referring to the old law that was better, I'm just saying that this law has these good things that I've said before. The explanation is, I've already said it several times, and the improvement in it I see that it goes down to the local level. And that in different perhaps parts of Croatia, it is necessary to approach in a different way how this land is used. In Slavonia and Istria is not used the same way, you probably don't have small plots and snake roads there, you may have, but it's obviously not the idea for all of Istria from the west to the east to put the cereal on and that the combination goes day and night up. So we have different things. I think that, in our interest too, agriculture, what I said before, is primarily in a whole picture of Istria that attracts guests, and let's not forget that 7 billion euros is income from guests and that Istria participates with 30%, and there are only 206,000 inhabitants. And that 30% should be fed, they come, not only because of the sea, because in Dalmatia they would surely find the same clean shore and everything, and I love that Dalmatia is the same in this direction in its own wine, olive oil and other things. So everyone has a view of what they think they should give him. So here we are discussing this law and how to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29472	Thank you very much. The last replica is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29473	I completely agree with you, Your Honor. Slavonia has, you mentioned olive oil, all those Istrian delicacies, wine, it also has Slavonia from cuisine, sausages, towers, famous gastronomys of Slavonic hunting, fishing, etc. Slavonia would probably have more income than tourism, than continental tourism, e.g. Not only Djakovo through Đakova obligations to be transmitted by Croatian television, the radio television that the citizens of Đakova are paying for the subscription. All other events, to invest in continental tourism as invested in this Adriatic tourism. And that is, that is also a question that needs to be resolved by the Ministry of Tourism. However, I will return to this law. Whether he's better or worse than the previous law, I claim he's worse because this is full centralization. And it's not just this one on regional parties to decide on, it's one of the biggest parties here in the Parliament. Mostly now parties to the Kukuriku coalition. So, the promise of decentralisation of Croatia and this law falls into the water, because this is total centralisation and this is not the only problem of this law, it is also the distribution of those funds that will put the entire regional self-government in a position that it can no longer monitor the programmes and those contracts that they have signed from that entire agriculture. The second question, which is the question I refer to in the open to the ministry, we today have farmers who are owned, farmers who do not have a contract. Did the minister not provide a guide on the use of the land for a vegetative period. That's the problem, Đakova, it's a 90 percent problem of Slavonia because all contracts and all competitions and decisions on these competitions are being heard in those drawers in the ministry. He doesn't have the right to encourage, so there's not even a state ergel of lipians in Đakov. Here the principal was with me the other day and he asked me what to do, so I said I would ask the Minister for a public question and ask him for it, because I've made a request down the road to make a guideline so that all those in the country who are in the country before making a decision of the ministry or the entry into force of this bad law can exercise the right to encourage. Ministers, write a letter that mayors, commissioners can extend for another vegetative period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29474	We get it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29475	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29476	I'm just drawing attention to that yet, and I'm sorry, here's the answer to the distinguished representative Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29477	... about watching on TV. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] We in Istria even have problems watching HRT over the summer because Italian cells are bothering us, and I hope that will be resolved within the agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29478	Thank you very much. I just want to draw everyone's attention, so we still have 21 individual discussions announced. And the first will be the next of the distinguished representative of Pedja Grbina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I'm going to take this as an invitation to make my argument as brief as possible. So I'm going to focus on two points in it, and first of all on something that we've already discussed a lot, which is a matter of sales and leases. I was already talking about how the sale wasn't ruled out, but in this law, I was already able to make a mistake, so my colleague Vinkovic is reporting for the replica. But like I said, sales are in this law exception, not rule. And there's a lot of reasons for that. And I'll tell you one. It happened in my county. One municipality sold agricultural districts, it seems to me that the price was 3 stamps per metre square, did not pass long, and the county has refurbished the land into construction. This country's agricultural land is no longer worth three marks, it's worth a lot more, and who used it? Do you RH? No, I don't. Are you citizens? No, I don't. Only a private entrepreneur in a specific case speculator who acquired land and dramatically increased its value. We have neither agricultural land that could be farmed, nor any other purpose has occurred on that land. This law prevents such a thing. The state will no longer be able to sell its agricultural land except in those several justified and exceptional situations. Furthermore, there is no more speculation with private agricultural land. Very high fees for re-use are being introduced. Building land is defined. No more going to the mayor's office, to the mayor's office, to pull a sleeve to wash one of his moves, to grab a colleague, Vinkovic's head, I'm obviously guessing the target is to pull someone's sleeve and to make his property drastically increase overnight. Of course it will have exceptions too, and several very specific ones. Family houses. There is no compensation for re-use in that high form, infrastructure etc. means very clearly preventing speculation with state agricultural land, with private agricultural land, and we are aware that it was from my county to Slavonia, nor was there a strategy available, nor was there any reflection on the consequences of such actions. Furthermore, I have to go back to something the Constitutional Court had already spoken about, which in this old law on agricultural land was an attempt to tell the agency that some are now saying that they have given her too much authority to dispose of private land. Minister, I thank you for finally giving up on this and for putting such ideas to rest. Private land is private property and people with it can freely dispose of it. However, I would ask that one possibility be considered, which is the rounding of agricultural land. So, of course, that's our goal, but I think that the possibility of uncontrollable cleavage of agricultural land to a parcel level that would only have a dozen squares is unnecessary, so we might be able to model the provisions that are intended for building land and that the cleavage in the building area can only be done in accordance with the location permit, and here we can predict the lower limit of the plot that can be created by cleavage of agricultural land except in the case of roads, infrastructure, trafostations or the like. Here's since we're through replicas and we've been through the presentations of other MPs a lot heard here I'll end up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29480	Thank you very much. Despite your efforts, you have caused six replicas. Well, then, the first one is the distinguished representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29481	Dear fellow MP. This statement of yours that this law will prevent that withdrawal from the hands of the mayor, the mayor, or I don't know who. I responsibly claim that no one has ever pulled my sleeve in my life, nor have I been able to influence the award of agricultural land unless it was in accordance with the conditions of the competition. There are also the mayors and mayors of the SDP who carried out these competitions and commissions. In Djakov, the commission was SDP, HNS and HDSB and they made a very good decision for me. It may have been on some particles and there might have been a mistake but the city council unanimously therefore participated in it and HDZ decided that everything that was clean, which is without objecting to going into further procedure, to consider these objections. I mentioned that particle that 150 participants of the competition appeared and 149 complaints were written because it was a particle that was primarily restricted and possible irrigation in the entire time of the year. Who's supposed to pull a sleeve around here? Well, one and the former and current minister are and can confirm to you that all the time visitors are all those who participated in the competitions and do not withdraw the mayors by the sleeve but pull the ministers without wanting to offer them any favors. And understand one thing you're running for mayor of Pula and you're telling your citizens in public, I'm giving up what local self-government needs to do. Don't run.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29482	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29483	Here's a thank you for your esteemed instructions on my political campaign. I'll take them into consideration. However, I must say, I'm very glad that no one dragged you by the sleeve, but I'm also glad that you listened to what I was saying especially in the part where I was talking about re-intentional malversions. And neither you nor anyone else in this hall can tell me that in the Republic of Pula to Ilock to Dubrovnik there was no malfeasance with premeditation,... An excellent colleague of all honours, there was no malfeasance with the re-use of agricultural land in construction. [[You don't understand what you're saying.]] If there were no malfeasance with the re-use of state or public agricultural land in construction sometime after it would have been sold to private investors. That's what I was talking about, my colleague. And we all know that's what happened. Some judgments also testify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29484	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP. Here I will again say that it is absolutely clear to me that there are certain diversity and differences in implementation from land policy in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. One is the specificity of Slavonia, and the other is quite different from the specificity of Istria. It could agree that something similar to Istria and Dalmatia and the Croatian coast, where conditionally referred to as the re-use of agricultural land can achieve a significantly higher price of this land. As far as Slavonia is concerned, and in the end there is not much excessive need and rush to redeploy and increase prices, so it is significantly less. But I must remind you, Mr. Grbin, that a decision on whether the land will be sold will be offered in a lease and whether a long-term concession will be made by units of local self-government. and in such cases, which would make sense to me that in Istria the higher percentage of agricultural land was leased for the simple reason of price, conditions, re-use, possibilities for malversion, etc. than it is somewhere in Slavonia. And now you, with the experience of Istria, want to impose the entire space of the Republic of Croatia on ways and models to address land policy. Slavonia is something else entirely. In Slavonia, in the vast majority of cases where land purchases occurred. And someone said today it would be good to put it on the Internet, though. I also suggest that the ministry put on the Internet all those who bought local self-government units so that we can see who bought it and who doesn't deal with agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29486	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29487	Here's my colleague. I couldn't agree more with you. It is true that the differences between Istria and Slavonia in terms of agricultural land and its cultivation and availability are great, but there are great differences within Istria and even within Slavonia. However, the law must be equal for all, the law must be equal for all. And as you asked us earlier to allow you to advocate the sale, which is your absolute democratic right to allow us to advocate the lease because we consider the lease to be good for 50 years, first of all because it retains and controls and ownership of one resource, and yet over 50 years, it enables everyone to be absolutely certain that tomorrow, the day after or after 10 years when the crews of some plantation won't take away any land. I accept that we can't agree on this, but as you asked us to allow you to think differently, so do you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29488	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow coat of arms, I allow you, of course, no one forbids you to think any way you want, but I'd like to ask you a question. Do you really believe what you said when you said that it would be possible to prevent the pulling of the sleeves of local and regional self-government etc. Do you really believe that or do you think that someone else might be dragged by a sleeve like you said I quote that expression of yours? As they say in Bosnia, "Dry the Kurt to ride the Murt." He won't be pulling on Vinkovic's sleeve anymore or I don't know either. Vinkovic said it wasn't with him, but you're saying that there was something in the other environments, especially with malversions with the re-use of agricultural land. So if you believe so strongly, then I think it's a good thing that's the way it is and you're holding on to St. Augustine and his sayings "act and believe" and vice versa, believe and act. But we'll see soon when the law applies how right you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29490	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29491	Here's a esteemed colleague I thank you for your question. Is there going to be a withdrawal by the sleeve? Very likely they will, as they always do everywhere in the world, there will be people who will come and drag others by the sleeve to do something to them. But where I was talking about redeploying the effect of pulling the sleeve won't be any more. Because even when the land is refurbished from agricultural to construction one who has thus profited will have to pay the State a fee and that fee will then be shared between the state and the local self-government unit. I am indeed a minister and on the Committee on Legislatives already note that I believe that the distribution of 70:30 compensation in favour of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask him once more in the current law to consider whether this fee should be such or should be shared according to the example of the one around the lease, 50:50 between the Republic and the local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29492	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grbin, you said there was no land sale except for the exceptional situations, as far as I heard from the minister, except when it comes to rounding up. You're a lawyer by call and Article 50(a) is wide enough to interpret whatever you want. So it would be necessary to put a point a) behind this point, or norm which area would be the maximum that could be implemented without a public tender. And this means I can have 900 acres, my neighbor has 700 and I get it without public competition. If it's a circle, about smaller quantities, about smaller surfaces, then I'm asking you to keep it normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29494	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29495	Dear fellow Members, in part there can agree with you that it might be useful to set a limit but still relatively high. However, this example that you set I think is somewhat deplaced because I do not know that in the Republic of Croatia there is also a single cadastrian particle, and here it is very clear that the cadastral particles of agricultural use that have 900 hectares, and that is exactly what is stated. It's the surface of a cadastar particle owned by a person. And if someone has cadastral particles of a certain area, and that's exactly what the law says, then they'll be able to ask for his land to be sold. This does not necessarily mean that it will be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29496	The next replica is the respected representative of Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29497	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade coat of arms, you mentioned the reuse of agricultural land and I'd like to give you an example. I wouldn't want to charge anyone in advance. It took place in Osijek, the City Council of Osijek in April of last year to decide on the re-use of state agricultural land in building land with a strictly defined purpose. I note, a country handled by the State Institute for Agriculture for 55 years. The decision taken by the City Council at that time was aimed at speeding up changes to the Law on State Agricultural Land. I don't want to accuse anyone, but at least it's suspicious, and in any case incorrect. The second thing, you mentioned that there was no strategy for the availability of state agricultural land, there was no strategy of agriculture at all. The only strategy the former government has had since '90. There's a sale and destruction here. I'll give you another example from my community. Pic Đakovo, who employed 3300 people at the best of times, has now come down to 150 people. Now, that's your strategy, Mr. coat of arms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29498	Thank you very much. And it's the last replica of the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29499	About four and a half hours ago when I was making views, and on the subject of the Agricultural Land Act, I said it would be very good to use all those negative experiences from the past, but to focus on how we go on one and how we get one and quality and enforceable law. Today during the debate, I was not surprised that one of my colleagues here in Zagreb, in this assembly, spoke in the most ugly way possible about the malfeasances and mentioned the exclusive context of Istria. Knowing you, Mr. Grbin, I don't know what you needed at this point to point out Istria again, I will return with the thesis that as mayor of Rovinj we have defined ourselves for the category of leases, that we have had a program and that we have assigned our people over 400 hectares despite the difficult procedure. Mr. Minister, I'd just like to tie myself up, and for Peja, when I mention decentralisation and when I mention agencies, I honestly want you to be a very successful minister, but a much less important personal level is how much of a function all of us are to contribute to agriculture. Why local self-government? Before, Boluncic said I'd rather see this man, and now I'm getting attached to the economic program. I claim that on the basis of an economic programme that someone will valorize in the agency, a stranger who will make a phenomenal project and programme will come into possession of agricultural land to the detriment of the very small craftsmen, small farmers. That'll happen a million percent, that's what I'm telling you from experience, and I don't want to open up a space for unnecessary speculation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29500	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29502	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, my bad, I didn't see it. Replication response, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29503	Thank you. I have to answer this, because everyone is talking about examples they know, examples they've seen and experienced. I never said, and I won't say that Rovinj was a city that was an example of malfeasance, though. The town of Rovinj has always bounced from other cities in Istria. Other towns and municipalities in Istria unfortunately did not follow Rovinj's example of land availability, both in terms of agricultural land availability and spatial planning. And I'm certainly not going to make any examples out of Giakov. That's what my colleague Tomic will do, but you can't look me in the eye and say that this, this example I've told is not true. You can't look me in the eye and say that's not what happened with us. And you can't tell me it shouldn't be prevented. If I knew of another example, that I was from Dubrovnik, of course, to set an example that happened there. If I were from Zagreb, I would have cited the examples that were happening here, and we all know my God that unfortunately there were. Our task is to prevent such malfeasances everywhere in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I think this is a good law, and this is exactly the law, and this is the principle on which we're going to solve such malfeasances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29504	Thank you very much. There's now an opportunity for distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29505	Well, here we are all a little bit and fed up with the debate and tired, but it's often been talked about here today about two options actually. One was that local self-government is the one who can't master those spaces he has and the property that's located in her area. And second, of course, is an alternative option that the state knows it better through some of its agencies. The HSS cannot support such a bill, nor this interpretation of the law because it deviates from our basic setting that OPGs are small family farms something that is necessary in Croatia, something that offers new jobs in Croatia, something that should certainly be preserved in Croatia. What makes me happy here today is what I have already said in one of the replicas is a statement by Mr. Minister that agriculture is a strategic economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. And I hope that here from today's debate on this first reading of this law we're going in that direction. But the facts say something completely different. Centralisation is present not only in this part of state agricultural land. She is also present at the Payment Agency's office. Because these days everything is tied to the land. These days we have an office cancellation, a move of offices to regional centres and an increase in costs to agricultural producers who, for example, in my town's area and four surrounding municipalities will have about 300, 400 thousand kuna travel expenses only for fuel when they will be driving twice a year in the paying agency's offices. And all this would be good and wonderful if it didn't turn out all the time that everything with the land was a crime, that it was local self-government, that it was the mayor's fault. And in principle, the mayors of the municipality make decisions on this, the decisions being made by the municipal and city councils. That's true. Of course, with the previous actions of the commission. and given today's proposal of the law, we can really repeat by who knows which times here in the assembly today, that it is not clear to me how it can be more transparent management of the state agricultural land if it is done by an agency somewhere in a Zagreb office and decides what is said here and Istria, about Dubrovnik, about Slavonia I don't know about Međimurje, Prigorje, Podravina, and so anyway in which part of Zagorje and not those people who live there. And how in our minds to create the idea that it would be transparent and that no malfeasance with state agricultural land is being prepared. With all due respect, here's what I do. I just can't imagine something like that, because all the time it's been understood that local self-government is who are doing it wrong, but the agency is going to do it differently. I also can't understand how some agency with a few people who aren't much more talked about will be able to solve it if the entire teams of services in local self-government are doing this and they're struggling to even clean up the land spaces, to even clean the books, to make cadastres, so they can even call the competitions. How will the agency handle it? How the agency will, in the end, resolve the issue of all these complaints and complaints that will come because it does not know what is actually happening on the ground and how there will be only a few people in that agency, and there will be no new mass recruitment of officials and bureaucracy that is actually coming because here it is mentioned in the debate that regional centres of the agency will also be working. Now, perhaps by looking at and listening to all these days and during this debate on agriculture, it is said here today on several occasions that today we are discussing the Law on State Agricultural Land without discussing the Strategy on Agriculture. You see how necessary and necessary this debate would be, in order to put it on the Parliament to discuss it, so let's see what the strategy of agriculture is, which is the new direction, how we're going to go even though we're deeply, deeply late, and especially this last year, because before we entered the Union in principle and last year we've gambled to do something fast, some course that we needed. But to me, this all looks like a coup against the OPGs that it's one thought-out policy, because recently our prime minister here in this assembly has said one question about the OPG that it's normal for some OPGs to fail and that money has been provided for them in the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was a sentence here expressed in this assembly. Is this already planned sequence that is now happening because under this law, by assessing economic programmes and getting 60 points on the OPG's economic programme, there is definitely no chance of competition for state agricultural land. That's not a good way to go. And I beg you, Mr. Minister, and there have been a lot of such discussions, to respect those views. What I'm saying is the attitudes of the peasants, the farmers I've been talking to these days intensely. I've never heard one say hello to a bill like this. I haven't talked to the big system, I haven't talked to the big companies, I haven't talked to them, they probably welcome him because he's basically meant and adapted to them. That is why Article 27 and 50 years of lease should be considered. You know, today at this time, it's very difficult to plan something for 50 years. Who can guarantee that today's economic programme will be lasting, that it will last 50 years? I'm not sure about that. I think we need to loosen that little thing up in that part. Also, this monopoly on decision-making within the commission with all the powers of ministers and agencies, where in the end, what is said here is that the amount of money that goes from renting 50% to local self-government, the minister decides that the money will be used. Well, my people, I think it's one of those very ugly attacks on local self-government and she doesn't deserve it at all. So local self-government in Croatia is not an enemy of the state. So I think it's one system that should work together, be like a finger and fingernail. Furthermore, by looking at this point, I suggest that a little consideration be given to the score system and that it is really corrected. You'll pass this law, that's for sure. You have a majority in Parliament and no one can argue with that. But surely open that door to the O.P.G., make a different score. I suggest that 50 points be put in for the program, 25 points for the previous owner to throw out the highest bid and give 25 points to be awarded to the one based on domicile. Let us not let it happen that in certain areas, in certain areas of the Agency's decision from Zagreb, renters come to us, and that people who live nearby in general do not have any effect on the fact that only one morning they will have some tractors, and they will sell their stables, or they will not sell them, will not be able to legalize them because they have too much cost on that legalisation and will stand empty. Here, along with these notes and really one request to look at the situation in agriculture a little more thoroughly change a little bit, correct this law, work it out and allow the OPGs to participate equally in the competitions along with the big ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29506	Thank you very much. I can see that the atmosphere is still holding high because we have as much as 7 replicas on this exhibit, and then we will be approached by a respected minister. Well, here we go in a row. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29507	Dear colleague Hrg, you have now said at the end of your debate a sentence which reads: "It is not the local self-government of the enemy of the state". We can't possibly do that. We need to view it as a whole of the system. One part of the state system. But I've been listening all day to recommendations about whether local self-government needs to share land or whether it should share land owned by the state and who better to do so. Neither the state nor the local community, or local self-government, know better to share the country only because the state is a state and the local community is a local community because it will be fairer because it has come down. If the state is well organized and if it respects what I've been saying, if it creates some synergy, if it respects the wishes of the local community, the development of the local community, and if it doesn't come down to three people that it's two representatives from the state and one from the local community means if they're good intentions, if the minister listens to what they're saying today, if the government doesn't go as stubbornly as the government is going through the wall and regardless of what the dogs say bark, the caravans pass then it's absolutely certain that some kind of compromise can be made between them. The thesis that the state is a bad master in itself has denied you. You're being denied in Croatia right now. Why? It is bad both at this time and before, but you have worse businessmen so the businessmen have destroyed this Croatia. Remember in the '90s what they did. These 350 thousand workers, how many jobs they were at 40, when they were 50 years old, were forced into retirement, and today these workers are retired, only now they are 60 years old. And today they complain that it's too expensive for them. Therefore, and the Scandinavian states prove to you that the state is a good master. Germany owns 50% of the German banks, but we say we don't give it all to privates, we sell it all out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29508	Thank you very much. Answer, distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29509	Here's my colleague Vuksic I agree with you that the state should not be a bad master, absolutely but in this part of what you said about whether local self-government or state should have land? Well, under the existing law, it's complicated that one and the other institutions are involved plus the State's Attorney's Office. And he is certainly much cleaner and more transparent than this model is now where these institutions are avoided. So there's certainly been a continuous blow from the state to local self-government. Instead of decentralisation, the local self-government is taking over more and more jobs, tasks, being a partner, we have a situation where a little bit of something is being abolished, that our resources are being slightly reduced, that there is no fiscal decentralisation, that it is simply impossible to live in local self-government. The normal thing is that local self-government then thinks about how we simply have an opponent in the country, and that we have a partner and it's not a good way to go, it can't end well, and especially in this way where even now, of our colleagues here some want to criminalize local self-government. Turns out local self-government is a criminal organization, that's already been said. So I ask, let the register of state agricultural land sold and leased or lease be published, and let every further publication be made on the Internet, be visible and public, so that we all aim to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29510	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You just said that you hit the state on local self-government, a colleague, Vuksic, quoted as saying, "The local self-government is not an opponent of the state." So I'll put it together. When you mention the coup of the state on local self-government I will remind you of a few things, for example: In 2003, Djakovo brings a similar programme of availability to state agricultural land that does not pass, it is a blow to local self-government with very little, sorry program, with very little objection. It can be concluded that it was only because there was a SDP in power there. I don't see any other reason, no objection, and your minister doesn't pass. So it's not just malfeasances, it's the state's malversions in the last eight years. You say further, it's normal to fail the O.P.G., the O.P.G.'s quote of the prime minister. And all of a sudden, you're surprised that someone's going to fail, and in your eight years of government, 50,000 dairy producers have failed, and now you're surprised that some of the O.P.G.s are going to fail in a crisis, and it's amazing. And in the end, why do you advocate so much selling state-owned agricultural land, it's amazing to me. In a country that has extremely great sales experience in 90 with conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29512	Answer to the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29513	I have to say, if there's a case of a particular case, there's a single reason to change the law, then we're doing it wrong. If we're not able to enforce the law and then we're going to change it because 74 units of local self-government didn't bring in a state-owned agricultural land programme, and 400 is, then something doesn't seem to be going the wrong way. And we weren't colleagues for eight years, but four years, four years we were with the SDP, 2000-2003, and then we were the last four years with HDZ in the coalition, no, not four. Sure four, so this one, the minister was two years old, and for two years he was the minister of the second one. So in that part, you didn't exactly say exactly, but in any case, because of, I repeat, the individual case doesn't go to change the law. The law can be implemented, the law can be controlled, if there were irregularities, if there were malfeasance, let the malfeasances be sanctioned, let those who have done it be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29514	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You asked your colleague the question that we have already heard several times today, how it can be more transparent work through the agency compared to practice so far, you ate. Here is an article 57 that speaks of all the activities of the agency, and in no article of the entire law I have seen anywhere who conducts surveillance over the work of the agency? I think Mr. Minister that it should... indicate, indicate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the agency doesn't work well to know who's watching her then. Furthermore, a respected colleague of the Hrgs mentioned domicileness, i.e. taking care of local farmers. I fear that Article 43 and paragraph 2 which says: "That the tenant is obliged to the agricultural land referred to in paragraph 1 of this article to be demined within 2 years is not a good concern for our peasants." I assume you know that 1 square meter of demining costs about 1 euro, and 1 hectare has 10 thousand square square times, like land or 10 hectare plot, that's about 100,000 euros for demining. I think it's too short a deadline, or if he hasn't demined, he's still forced to pay the rent. I don't think that's a good formula, and that should be a slightly different way to regulate it. I would also like to point out Article 27, paragraph 5, where it is mentioned here primarily about Slavonia, about the award of rents for the ponds. I have not noticed in this three-member commission that we have representatives of local self-government, so we have representatives of the agency, representatives of the ministry and one representative of the water economy ministry. So we don't have a representative of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29516	Thank you very much. Answer, Your Honor, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29517	Thank you very much. So there's no control, so that's the problem, and there's really no dispute about how each of us wants to, not to decide who's going to have state agricultural land, but how to put it into office, how to put it into production, and how to allow the OPGs to produce on it, so that they can open and save jobs. Perhaps this three-member commission will be drawn up to versatile people, maybe we have such experts who will be able to talk about everything, maybe the local self-government will be expert, which will be defined there and figure out as a ficus and in that commission. Who knows? In any case, I think what you said also points to the fact that it may need to increase that commission, that it can have five people in it, so let local self-government be more represented to make it really more transparent and to be control after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29518	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29519	Thank you very much. Your colleague Hrg, you said about the agency with the current number of employees, won't be able to do the job properly. Well, of course this agency won't even do the job because this is a really big job and it's actually given to the agency that needs to be set up for this big job and the municipalities and cities are still obliged to prepare the competition even though they don't have a mandate to decide on them. And the question is, how are those municipalities and cities going to do business for the agency when they didn't do the same job when they were able to decide for themselves. So they'll probably be called by that same agency just don't know where they are and what sanctions they can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29520	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29521	My colleagues are Roses. This is how it's said that this current land agency is not doing its job and that it's not well-assembled, that it hasn't functioned properly. I guess this new one's gonna start working overnight. She'll be able to do all that overnight. I repeat, I have as mayor of a long-standing very bad experience with state agencies, slowness, inability to see the documentation, inability to track down the collapsing documents, that's something that kills, that's something that throws you backwards. And I repeat, we really need to include local self-government here to the maximum in order to be as high-quality as possible and as fast as possible with agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29522	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29523	Here, my colleague Tomic was not even a councilman at the time, and I think that the city of Đakovo was the first in Croatia to bring a programme of agricultural land in early 2002. 2013 The first competition was called, there were 23 objections to 9 particles but then Minister Pankretic said that one Commissioner from the Semelci municipality would be the first to give consent and war was being waged there, but this is now another topic. But here I would agree with my colleague Hrg that this law is primarily a new form of centralization and that this law rules out a completely local self-government that has to do a great deal of work and that I am particularly surprised today that many mayors, mayors, advocate this approach and this model. The country has been proven to be the worst master. I'm surprised by the Labourists. So here's only one of us cities of mimosa in the city of Djakov, which is now state property standing, staring empty and falling. The value of that is almost 30 million kuna. The state doesn't care about her, and there's an opportunity to move even the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture is not a place in Zagreb but primarily in Slavonia, which is today the most neglected Croatian region. Staring blank, that's how the state treats its property. That's how they'll treat the land. I support and the city of Djakovo has introduced, there is no sale of agricultural land because it is the resource that must remain ours, but the lease goes. And as for these 50 years, Mr. Minister, the assistant minister of many countries in this area has not lived for 50 years. Croatia will probably live, probably. But if you continue to run agriculture and the Croatian economy we go to Honduras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29524	Thank you very much. Answer the esteemed representative of the Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29525	Comrade Vinkovic, it is not that only in Djakov this building would be a small problem. This would probably work out, but we have such objects all over Croatia and we have a situation that local self-government really wants to solve it and try and write demands and offers even money but does not solve it. I'm also afraid of you saying it doesn't come with state agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29526	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative, Marija Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29527	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrg. We still need to get back to the beginning and agree with what most of the speakers today have said. What kind of situation we currently have in Croatia, abandoned land, unsettled, chicare growing, we don't have enough food, no one is worth producing. So this is the kind of situation that the policy has led to, the agricultural policy in which you, unfortunately and in certain ways, have participated. Of course, by joining the EU, most of the OPGs will have to be restructured with 5.6 ha of land as the average per household is uncompetitive with poor machinery and what is most important today is mentioned little, with weak or no knowledge of the honours of exceptions. So, they're going to have to reorient to something else, a lot of them are going to be able to know or find some of their calculations, but one of them isn't going to, and there's a perfectly normal sequence of events that are going to happen to us, and it's no wonder that certain OPGs are going to close.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29528	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga. I'd ask to speak when we get the word. The Honorable representative of Hrg has received his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29529	Dear colleague Vukbratovic and I must say that I am honored to hear here many times tonight critics at the expense of HSS like you were, but my dear colleague, so I said again and I said from 2000 to 2003 we were you, and these last four years we were you. Well, no one here is an individual, so no one has made their own decisions. That's what it looks like, let's not forget, let's not manipulate the data, that doesn't make sense. And let's not underestimate our peasants and agricultural producers. They bought a lot of equipment and machines in these last 8 or 10 years. They built those farms, they filled the farms, but in the last year, they've been empty. They used to charge, and now they're empty. It's that process that's visible that's out there. This is what you know best, you work in this profession, you work in such an institution, and you know that they are not uneducated, that we in the town of Križevci have had a whole series of educations that our institution will say so the High School of Economics successfully and what you participated in. So there's a lot of educated people who certainly know how they could survive and survive all these years, and we hope that even though this might be one of the hardest hits on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29530	Thank you very much. Now his replica will be told by distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29531	Thank you very much. You know that I come from the HSS and I don't want to be too sharp, since it's my first political love, but I have to tell you something. Namely, 12 years of yours and ours. Not ours but yours and yours and yours and the HDZs and the HSS and the SDPs are ministers. While Europe is considering the CAP Programme and the financing of agriculture in two pillars, the rural development and development programme of agriculture is being implemented and implemented... for Europe 21st century we are here discussing agrarian reform almost as from the time of Matija Gubca. 12 years, so since 2000, all three parties and all your coalition potentials and partners have failed to implement so-called. Let's say for socialist agrarian reform. And we're entering Europe with an unresolved problem. And this law, which will be passed by the SDP or the cowards, will not be able to bring about the changes that will be necessary so that we will enter Europe on 1 July and the application of this law will take place in a year or two days. It'll bring some kind of effect. As for the 50-year lease, then the working life span of a man, do you know what it's like to start working at 20? It's smaller than 50 years old. At 65, you can retire. And lifespan, if someone comes at 40 years of age to rent agricultural land, his lease will expire in 90 years. So can he do what he signed when he signed the lease? Why don't you explain it to me and let Mr. Secretary explain it to me. This is no longer a question to you but to comment on this comment of yours, Article 27, which speaks of a 50-year lease.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29532	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29533	And I wanted to say something else, well noticed and most of you here that appeal procedure... There's no lease decision. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29534	Okay. Thank you very much. Now will be answered by the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29535	It'll be short. Yes, unfortunately, it has never been agrarian reform of rights or conceived or implemented, it is a fact, only that in one period agriculture has been placed as a strategic branch of the economy, and back a year it has not. There was an intention obviously to do something and, as I said earlier, it was done. And now, ours and yours, and let's say ours will be the simplest thing to say. I agree with you and I've said 50 years of economics program a bit of a strange time period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29536	Thank you very much. Now... Minister Tihomir Yakovina will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I tried to be in the spirit of shortening the debate efficiently so that I could record everything carefully and not respond to individual debates, but this time I had to get involved for a clear reason why people like us over time quickly forget. Law NN 152/2008 Law on Agricultural Land Article 103. Article 1 "The Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt regulations establishing the Agricultural Land Agency within three months of the date of entry into force of this law," the NN 39/2009 adopted that Regulation. The Agency for Agricultural Land, if I remember well and do not cheat, and I am not wrong at the time the Minister of Agriculture was your party colleague and he initiated this law and regulation, made the Agricultural Land Agency that it had and which was provided for much greater powers and the availability of private agricultural land with much more rigid provisions than we have now given to this Agricultural Land Agency. I should point out again that you have selected both the director and the deputy director and the board of directors that some jobs have been done for which significant funds have been paid but the function and work of the agency has not been done, has not been done. A big concern about how, what and how we organize, let us go, and you'll see in the next period. I said we'd use most of the human potentials we have in the ministry and agencies. The part that we need to administratively strengthen will go through public tenders, transparently unlike what has been so far. You pulled the parallel of a respected colleague of the Hrg with what's going on these days with the paying agencies. A large number of agencies that were both in small places and in cities and in our county seats are in line with what we negotiated, which we have committed to the European Commission said we will reduce to 21 regional centre of the Payment Agency. It's not something that Minister Jakovina invented or this administration or a year ago, you knew a few years in advance that we would have to do. Obviously through this and your debate, but also most of the debate that comes from the right hand side, that everything that has been done in the last 20 years is ideal, wonderful, wonderful, our agricultural producers, craftsmen and businesses in the agrarian industry are fantasticly prepared and processed, and all the evil of this agriculture is back a year. I don't know that the figures of both production and self-sufficiency and preparation of our agricultural producers in primary production, but also the food processing industry supports it. For 50 years, the economic programme has been a problem compared to the current available models where sales were preferred. How much time in amortising significant investments in agricultural production, which of the agricultural producers can seriously plan any investment that has shorter deadlines than these. Whether or not we have given the opportunity and in the law it is indicated in which cases the haunted family economy can also be transferred to its descendants. I think it's all well-quality and excellently settled in the bill of this law. We want to talk about multi-year crops, talk about more serious investments in greenhouses, plastics and inu production? You think they're investments, you mentioned olives and everything, that they're investments that pay off in 5 or 10 years? I don't think anyone who knows the serious parameters and the level of investment and depreciation in agricultural production knows that the longer it is, the better it is. I said and indicated that programs, or economic programs, are something that will be monitored, valorized. Are the tenants acting on the basis of which they were leased? If they do not do so, the lease will be broken and given to those who have real production. For 50 years, and this has been settled in the law, and it can only be agreed in the timeline that we cannot exactly plan what we will do in 50 years, given the changes in trends or the rest, but it is possible that in the annexes of the economic programmes, the same agency can be determined in time if we go to a certain change in production itself in the agricultural economy which will be respected by the agency. Registrar, I heard twice today from you that you should publicly publish the register of all those who bought the agricultural land, which they were leased. However, yes, one of the specifics and in this law that we have said what we want to get with it that the establishment of an information system will improve on the one hand management, and on the other hand make the system more transparent. As it was 10 or 12 years ago, each object was individually operated by hand. Whether it was published, this same agency that you set up and that, according to what the paying agency does in agriculture, fisheries and rural development, should have published the data, did not do so. She hasn't done anything since 2009, now that we've formed her, when she started working now, it's no good. On the other hand, I'd be glad, you're saying that we're not consistent and that we didn't respect anything that was good, and I'm going to refer to that item as saying that the minister's regulation prescribes a way of using the leases that enter the budget of the units of local self-government. A decree that exists under the existing law, which speaks of strictly dedicated use of funds obtained on the basis of the lease or sale of agricultural land that is income to local self-government units. Since the arrangements of accessing rural roads, the arrangements of the channel network, measurements and everything we've heard, strictly means of purpose. Did we change anything about that? No, but we think it's a good provision, that it should stay in the new law that these funds are used for all those jobs that are related to agriculture, not for building municipal infrastructure, not for financing football clubs, not for maybe campaign financing, but it's just not been controlled so far. This way it'll be controlled. I think that's about what I wanted to refer to, which was pretty vague in your debate. Once again, in 2008, the existing law, the agency is the work of your minister and you and your coalition government. That agency didn't work, now it's working and it's going to work and it's going to enforce this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29538	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here we have six replicas on your exhibit. First, it is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29539	Here after these Ministers' words, all I have to do is light this lamp for Croatian agriculture because, regardless, if the past law was not right, it should be changed, but not in a way that the new law is worse than the previous one. And this law, you have a majority but you must remember that you will really be graves of Croatian agriculture, gravediggers, in this year and in the morning is known, total for agriculture, unrelated to whether the incentive system was fair, whether there was malversion in this use of incentives, but total investments in agriculture have been reduced by a billion kuna, you must be aware of that. For the past year, you know that, and your assistant, she's closed down a bunch of cattle farms. This ministry, when it was meant to be on the side of Croatian producers and Croatian production, stood by foreign processors and cared about the side of the powerful. And if this law comes to life, if the powers of criminals in local self-government are lifted, but the head of the local self-government elected by the citizens, where was the state's attorney's office the last law and agreed to carry out those contracts? If this is adopted by Mr. Minister, Mrs. Vesna or Vesnice, you will be the undertaker of Croatian agriculture and livestock and warfare and olive growing and fruit growing and viticulture and fishing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29540	Thank you very much. I hope you didn't challenge the firemen to come to us. And the Honorable Minister will answer. Well, then, we're calm. [[Intruder Vinkovic: So I am a fire officer!]] Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29541	Thank you, Reverend. Dear Mr. Representative and the fire inspector that you are,... [[I'd like to pray nicely if we stick to order.]] Yeah, great. [[You can't hear him.]] With your ability to protect yourself from fire, I have no doubt, but in your judgment on the quality of the law after this said yes, because I think it's a subjective opinion of yours that you have the right to do and you will allow it in time to see how effective it is and how good the law itself is. I think I stayed at one point, not that I overheard it, but I didn't answer about the guidance and the possible availability. Let me get one thing straight. A guide or confirmation or extension available on the model as it was done a couple of years ago we're talking about 95000 ha of land that works from year to year on certificates is a good part of your work as well. You mentioned the inability to achieve an incentive, productive in 2011 and you mentioned the pride of not your city but of the entire Slavonia and the Republic of Croatia Đakovačka ergel. You, as mayor, were then able and needed to issue a confirmation to that same institution so that you could achieve support. You didn't do it, and that's how the ergel lost the 700,000 kuna support they were supposed to get for that production year. By your failure you had the opportunity to do it in a quality way by issuing a certificate to the subject who asked for it and you missed it and here we are not where our ergel did not receive the necessary funds. With this new law, I will repeat again in the part where we give such institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia the opportunity to obtain land without competition for their basic activity such a thing will no longer be the subject of debate in this House and the slow development of such institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29542	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative has raised a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29543	Article 214 of the existing Rules of Procedure has been injured. So you also have the opinion of the Constitutional Court that this new one should be published in the National Journal. She was signed by Constitutional Court President Jasna Omey, so I'm asking her to stick to it. I would ask you to say here, a little worse for Croatian agriculture, to give the Minister notice because he misinformed the public. He needs to know that the mayor of Djakov without conducting the contest could not give confirmation...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29544	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29545	...to the state ergely Đakovo because there was no HCK at that time, but there was a HCK in Lipik, Mr. Minister. And this mayor would rather fire a bullet in his head than give it to such a phantom facility, a facility based in Lipik, a confirmation without conducting a public tender. And stick to the law. Don't misinformed the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29546	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29547	But now you need to make a statement. Because it's not just about the ergell.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29548	I'd like you to stop that, please stop because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29549	Thank you. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29550	The next replica will be the esteemed Croatian representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29551	Well, I'm glad to see you've used the 2009 Regulation, put it into operation. That means they weren't all bad, that there were good things that could have been done and done well. I will also be glad if agricultural producers succeed from the paying agency to get the information for which they get the incentives and get the natural incentives and subsidies, since I hear exactly on the ground it does not go the way it should go. And what I said today through replicas. I congratulate you on your courage. You're a brave man because you're taking on a huge responsibility that has now been redistributed to local self-government, to the Ministry, to the DORH. And I want you to succeed, just as I want the State Agricultural Land Act to apply to super-good application and to develop agricultural production. And I want you peasants to start praising you as a good minister tomorrow, because for now it's not a situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29552	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's for all of us, or it should be for all of us to be of great importance and interest to make our agriculture better and to help our agricultural producers. Yes, this Croatian government is responsible for the government. This ministry and I personally consider myself a responsible minister and we had no problem taking responsibility for making decisions and implementing those decisions. It's this dispersion of responsibility or the decision-making system that's been made by the existing law so far in this way that no one has actually been responsible for the unworked work. And I'm going to say again in front of this House less than 30% of the land has been put into operation in 10 years. That's not what I'd like to do. For that, at least someone had to answer morally and politically if not otherwise. This ministry and this government assume responsibility not with the purpose of centralisation, but with the aim of responsible management and putting agricultural land into office. In a year, in two, in three when the time comes for... Or when we go out to the new elections, we'll see how much it'll be known to valorize our agricultural producers and our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us begin to apply the law, and then we will be able to analyse the results and especially compare them with the results of previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29554	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29555	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you said that when you spoke about the importance of the agency, etc., that it would finally work now and will solve all the problems that have been seen so far. I looked at the budget of 19 million kuna this year and two projections of 18 million kuna, of which 17 material costs and wages. There remains a difference of one million kuna for all these obligations that are being made through or through the possibilities as you say through this law. I don't understand what these million kunas are going to do, at least not until this fund, the land fund lives, and while it lives, we're going to see how long it's going to be. Secondly, you said you were going rounding up in a way to ban the sale. Which doesn't mean the sale won't happen. In addition to a plot of 19 hectares, you can buy all 18 hectares. It's a classic sale and the question is how are these peasants going to do it then or whether it's going to benefit the peasants or the big ones who can do it. I don't know how they're going to round it up when those who have to go on lease because they're here owned by a small part and then there's no intercessors, so then the plot is a little further away that's one question that's being imposed through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29556	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29557	The possibility of selling is an exception. And it is specified in which cases it will be possible to apply. There was one question to whom the agency would answer? Well, like any other agency, there's a board of directors responsible for the agency's work in accordance with the laws. It's a resolute ministry and it's the government. It is our responsibility and as such we will comply with the law we have proposed and implemented and done. I didn't say we formed it and it's just starting now. The Agency is working almost all over 2012 in the last three quarters and has results behind it. The information system or the database I was talking about didn't exist. We have 10 or 12 years of agricultural land without a quality database. About transparency and showing who it is that through what form of availability we got we could only dream. It's something that's about to happen. We are also talking about, I'm going to have a little bit of a connection with the need to inform, i.e. raising the expertise of our agricultural producers on the problem that we won't know the quality of the economic programme and use these opportunities. We will. Only this agency and all professional services will work in a completely different way. We don't need officials in the ministry, we don't need officials in the Agricultural Advisory Service or politicians, politicians or anything like that. We need people who will work and serve farmers, so far they haven't been, and now they will be. At least while I run this department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29558	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29559	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29560	Thank you. Next is the respected representative Branko Vuksic for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29561	Dear Ministers, before I spoke of the government's stubbornness when it passed the laws, here's a request. Several times already here in the Assembly said there was a lease provision for 50 years. Take care of the lease for up to 50 years. How a 50-year-old can rent land and how you can disqualify it so it doesn't rent land. They're gonna rent the land for 50 years. Please, I'd like to rent for 50 years, just guarantee me I'll live so much. I'll sign it right now and I'll live so much. So, up to 50 years. What if there's no heir? I think I'm all thinking if it's so hard to change... A little more. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29562	I'm fond of this loose atmosphere, but let's let the counsel speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29563	Up to 50 years old and you've solved everything. Just normally with those criteria that we said were gone because we don't know what criteria to work on. Here, now you promised, you made one promise. We'll take your word for it. One of the ministers made that promise, a register of all those who bought and rented land. Make it known, but give us a term to which you will announce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29564	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable Minister who will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29565	A respected colleague, and under the current law, the lease for agricultural land was within 20 years. Did someone guarantee that they'd live 20 years if they signed a lease agreement? But there are a number of examples where according to Commission decisions, or city councils, land was leased for sale and received by people who were 70, 80-year-olds and who were in very close relations with members of the commission or members of municipal city councils. We gave this law the opportunity, I elaborated on why we went for 50 years, but we gave the possibility of generational sequence, i.e. the transfer to offspring or to a closer circle if we changed it in this direction to a proposal for some discussions that were on committees in the very processing of that agricultural land. Or the potential 50-year-old who gets to handle him for the next 15, 20 years, no heirs, and then he'll return the property to the land fund, and he'll get another tenant if he doesn't have any heirs. ... The database when we fully agree on the information system will be published on the web pages of the Agriculture Land Agency. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29566	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, when you talk about how farmers and programs now have more than they had before, you have to face numbers that are unquestionable. So a billion and a half minus this time with two budgets clearly tells us that the peasant no longer has what he had, no through incentives, no through investments, no return on capital investments and no more actually no more breathing, let alone doing what was supposed to be done. Through this you are also through the provision that all those who do not pay or have not paid their tax obligations not to pay off, and so the quality of production comes into question as well as the crops and crops themselves and everything else they need. Through what you're doing today, you've listed through the law a number of things that will be as conditions in the evaluation of the program. In these conditions, in the end, in Article 7 again, you say that the way in which the economic programme is evaluated in terms of the value and weight of a particular component is regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And out of those 20 values that you're going to value there is employment, is there going to be 1 point for one employee? What's a guy who's got 100 employees going to get 100 points right now? Tell me in which way you will meet all these criteria, how you will value them to be transparent and not to be very much in favour of those greatest and most powerful. And tell me, how do you think the county will simulate all these 17 programs more when you've abolished 25%?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29568	Here's the Honorable Minister Jakovina's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29569	Dear fellow MPs, the economic programme is also clearly indicated in this article 2, how. The item 7 you are referring to is actually an assessment of the direction of agriculture in that part, if we now know that our problem or that livestock farming is particularly exposed to us in major problems, then it is one of the priorities. In 2, or 3, or 4 years, it may be vegetables or growing protected areas, or fruit growing. The agricultural production sectors to which particular attention should be paid and, in some ways, through this and through this, the evaluation of the economic programme should be particularly weighted and credited. For this story, about support and the rest, I don't think there's much more to look at. Unfortunately, if the funds were much more high-quality before, if we had used the opportunities we had in a better way, we wouldn't have put our agricultural producers in the situation we are in. And just one correction, it's not true that we don't pay off capital, I said today in 2012. 320 million, at 13. 150 million, at 14, 75 million. It's capital, your debts on the vouchers we pay, at 11. you lost the election the next 3 financial years we pay and pay the capital, the people who have the right to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29570	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Zoran Vasic, so I ask him to tell it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29571	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, it may be the most important law in the area of agriculture because it speaks of agricultural land which is good of particular national interest and, of course, enjoys the very same and its special protection. Forests and forest land that occupy the area around as well as the total agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia with water and agricultural land represent the natural resources for which the Kukurik coalition still told in the elections that it will not sell them and that it has received the trust of most Croatian citizens. Following this, the biggest newspaper in this proposal is the law to suspend the sale of state agricultural land. As we have heard, so far the forms of availability of state-owned agricultural land are lifted, and it is prescribed to be made available on the basis of leases and leases for ponds for 50 years. Of those 550 hectares that are in accordance with the available programmes for certain forms, therefore available we see that 29% of what is intended for sale is sold, that 60% is given in concession and long-term lease. We see, therefore, that the smallest percentage of the country's agricultural land has just been sold, although the most severe critics of this bill can hear that without land in their possession there is no more serious agricultural production. As one of the arguments for dissuasion of these critics, it should be said that the largest area of land that is not actually used is private agricultural land, so that it has defined ownership, so it is not a guarantee that this land could be used. But here on the other hand, we can be happy that only 29% is sold, so I say what we advocate to suspend, or not sell state agricultural land, that is, natural wealth. In order to speed up the procedures for the availability of agricultural land owned by the state, the proposal for this law is that, instead of the units of local self-government, they did most of the work, so they made available programmes and opened tenders. So now they're going to take over, that job of the Agricultural Land Agency. It is unfortunate that in the last 10 years since the adoption of a programme for the state agricultural land, until today, only a little more than 262 thousand hectares or around 29.5% of the total area have been given to some of the forms of land available to the state. So it turns out to be less than one-third of the capacity. So I'd say there's no factory in the world or production that can be worth using just one third and unfortunately not our agriculture. However, it is certain that a great responsibility for such a situation is also borne by the fact that these jobs so far should have been done by units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, and should therefore be realistic and should be recognised that a large number of units of local self-government are neither professional nor human trained to carry out such extensive work as making available programs until the call for tenders for some of the forms of availability. We have also heard that of the 547 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, 74 of them have not yet developed their own programme of availability, although they have state agricultural land in their area, which is almost 14%. So these are all perhaps the biggest arguments for transferring these jobs to the agricultural land agency because it was simply obvious that the ministry saw that nothing had to change. And here come critics who suspect the possibility of doing these tasks by the foreign agency, so I tell colleagues and colleagues what the minister has just mentioned. So I predicted in my debate. So the agency was founded on 25 March 2009 by the government of the Republic of Croatia, so not four years ago. And in the description of the works of the agency, among other things, the participation in agricultural land available, the acquisition of private-owned agricultural land, the information of the land fund, the circulation of agricultural land, the management of the land fund. Monitoring and assessing the impact of various measures of agricultural policy and other policies on the use, marketing of agricultural land, integration, coordination of the work of state authorities and other institutions in order to improve the use of agricultural land and so on. So all of this but more than the Agency for Agricultural Land should do now, which is defined in this bill, since it will only deal with state agricultural land. So it's certainly one of the good arguments that she'll be able to do it all. So I am sure that they are responsible at the Ministry of Agriculture, and we could hear it in the debate at the Committee on Agriculture and we now have in mind the future scope of the affairs that will fall on the burden of the Agency as they decided to give it much more importance in this bill. The novelty in this bill is that the counties remain without 25% of the rent and sale of state agricultural land. Therefore, according to this proposal, the funds generated by the leases and the leases for the ponds are the revenues of the state budget of 50% and cities and municipalities of 50%. Since I come from a unit of regional self-government which, by the power vested in this law, should be left without an annual income on behalf of income from agricultural land of one million and a half kuna, so I will make a point of view. So it's not good to give up something you've had and what you count on. However, I find the situation much more complex in this case. Surely we would be most fortunate if 25% of the county income remained because ultimately we are investing in the development of agriculture but I will also say that it is concrete in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County that two thirds of the funds allocated for the promotion in agriculture are derived from the original incomes and not from the purpose of income from agricultural land. So in that case, we would make up for that lack. However, in my county, in some forms of state-owned agricultural land, about 30% of the total area of state-owned agricultural land of some 40,000 hectares was given about 12,000 hectares, and the county as a unit of regional self-government could not in any way influence it. Thus, translated into money into income means that so far, based on the initial price of leases for meadows, pastures or ora Sisak-Moslavina County lost somewhere between three and a half million kunas and eight million kunas. But looking at this amount that we get, given that higher prices have been achieved than the initial fallout that over the past ten years, the county has lost up to four million kunas a year, and I repeat, we are currently earning about a million and a half kuna. And not to say how much profit it would make for farmers for both regional and local units but also for the state would be if the total area of the state agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, and looking at the level of Sisak-Moslavina County, when farmers would use it to sow them with wheat or corn, so that if the areas under the wheat increased by 16% or for corn by 9%. This would therefore happen, i.e. I am sure when all the state agricultural land in only one county is put into service specifically in Sisak-Moslavina. In any case, I am sure that this bill will result in an increase in the use of state-owned agricultural land, resulting in rounding of land, new employment by better control of the use of agricultural areas, increased agricultural production and reduced imports of agricultural products or increased exports. After that and all, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29572	Thank you very much. We have five replicas. There you go, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29573	Dear Lazić, fortunately, this law is in the first reading. And even the minister said he would accept a set of suggestions. I'm surprised that you apriors accept this law, praise it, and this law is much worse than the one before, and the fact is that you might put more agricultural land into operation. However, the total amount of incentives will remain the same and that is, unfortunately, what we have negotiated and agreed with the EU. I have warned down the road that we are negotiating poorly and that we are throwing Croatian agriculture on our knees. This law throws it again and throws it on its knees. It shuts down the entire local and regional self-government. Local decision-making and regional funding. At least I am known as the mayor who enforces the law and who adheres to the law, and I was particularly surprised by what the minister said now that it was my fault that the state ergel, or Croatian horse-farming centre based in Lipik, could not exercise the right to encourage. All papers were submitted except for the contract with the city of Djakov and an extension for a vegetarian period because the state ergela Đakovo had a contract with the town of not the Croatian Horseman's Centre based in Lipik. So it's very interesting to hear what the minister says practically convinces me that I should have done an illegal shop. That's very strange. And so does the deputy. That's why they accused an ex-director who's not guilty or obliged at least for the case, for something else he might have. But the current director asks me to give that contract if it can't be realised that the ministry doesn't know that these particles, these tables are already sown and that someone needs to give the incentive and that someone needs to give the contract. And if it hadn't been for this mayor and the city of Djakov, you'd be convinced that the state ergel wouldn't even have a hectare because it was contained in the disposal program where the city protected not the ministry. Unless there's a return to the Djakovci-Seksek Archdiocese because it hasn't been settled yet. So don't push too much into your chest there's a lot of things that the city and the ministry have to do together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29574	A colleague of Vinkovic's 43 seconds. Reply to the replica Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29575	Dear colleague Vinkovic, this has been extended many times today during the debate, so here I am going to say now appropriate to you in a replica. So since 2008 to say when was the last time the Agricultural Land Act was passed in its original form, 5 amendments followed. So not only are you in opposition the whole time you weren't involved in government at the state level, I mean the HDSSB, so you couldn't create your own bill, but in any case all those who thought something was wrong in the previous law, and they wanted to do a lot more about the availability of state agricultural land, they had plenty of time to do it. So finally, on the last changes in 2011, counterpart Hajdukovic said more than 50% of the articles in the law had changed. So there could be a lot more to be done. And another thing I'd like to say about the amount you said for support, so the fact is that it's a negotiated envelope and it's a fixed amount. But I only hope for the sake of the well-being of our farmers and for the sake of timely information to them that there will be no information or debate after we increase the use of agricultural land, and because of the envelope that has been defined, the amount that will happen per hectare that there will be no debate by the opposition in this House in this direction that again this Government is guilty of reducing these incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29576	Ivanka Roksandić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29577	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I simply don't believe what I heard, that you are pleased that Sisak-Moslavina County and all the counties will lose those 25%, so you are the head of agriculture. I just can't understand that you're satisfied. And secondly, I'm sorry that you haven't pointed out anything else and that's the problem of common pastures in a protected area, because you as the head of the daily I believe that you face this problem especially in nature parks. No one has said this today, and this is the article 47 where the agency under this proposal makes a decision on the granting of leases to common pasture with the previous consent of the Ministry of Environment and Nature. A contract shall be concluded between the Agency and the responsible person for the pasture community. It's all right, we just forgot that this space is still managed by some institutions, and these are the most common parks of nature that are not mentioned here. What about nature parks? In particular, in the Lonjsko field, you know that more than 10% of the area is more than 51 thousand hectares, where nature park Lonjsko polje stretches under the pasture, meadow, 12% under the forest, about 12% under agricultural land. What about those parts? What role will nature parks play in the first place? The leases go 50% to the state budget, 50% to the local community. What local community? The one whose territory is Nature Park Lonjsko polje, we're talking about an establishment. You must know that the institution is required under the Nature Protection Act to care and manage its surfaces, so nature parks bring both the plan and the management program and the land, and here in this law they are completely omitted. So the agency is going to decide which pasture community gets a piece of pasture, who's going to be on that pasture, so it can happen. That the domicile population, just to end up forgiving the sentence. ... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29578	Take care of the weather. I want you to conjecture such a replica in two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29579	Thank you. So, distinguished colleagues, Roksandic, first of all, related to 20% of the county income. I said that it would be the happiest if the county remained with that income but if it did not stay I believe that it is also unrelated to that every year not only to Sisak-Moslavina County but all counties in the Republic of Croatia are losing more than they are currently getting just because 30% of the total state-run agricultural land is currently used according to state-level programmes. So we lose more than we win. As far as common pastures are concerned, I'm glad you brought it up. In the area of our county there are about 20,000 acres of pastures and meadows that are under a certain kind of protection, you mentioned Lonjsko polje, so Nature Park Lonjsko polje, should be said, and you know it best because you were a member in the past term, I think the Administrative Council of Nature Park is Lonjsko polje, so the competent ministry is the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So if someone's familiar with it if someone needs to give consent then it's certainly the ministry. However, something more important I would say than that, and that I am sure that the adoption of this law will finally solve the problem of these common pastures, that they will finally put into office that our farmers will finally be able to draw incentives on behalf of the use of these pastures, not that the case as happened in the previous term, your term of office, and while you were a member of that board that only 20 or 230 farmers got under some strange circumstances agricultural land, they got incentives and now they ended up in the state's attorney's office, they have to pay back the money and everything is being explored. I hope, then, that after the adoption of this law, it will never happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29580	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29581	Thank you very much. I didn't even know you were from Sisak-Moslavina County but you even said the head of agriculture, so I don't know maybe the mayor of Marina ordered you to comment like this and welcome the decision to give up these county fees she's had so far, here are the units of local self-government and state, but good. In fact, when you spoke in that first part of your story, I must say that as many predecessors before me have said, it's actually hard to carry out leases if, with any program that anyone has, there is no agricultural production strategy. You're going to put in some kind of program, you're going to have a few people in the contest, and you don't really have any kind of state-owned agricultural strategy that should be there at all, so everyone's going to be for themselves, we're going to have some potatoes in Zagorje again, and I don't know what in Lica. The second thing, until the cadastrian measure is passed, is difficult to implement at all. So how are you going to enforce the law when no cadastrian measurement is done, I don't understand it at all. By the time the cadastar scale is complete, this law is completely inadmissible, it's gone, there's no land available. And it has not yet been completed or done, and mainly in Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29582	Replication response, Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29583	My colleague Grubisic, I have heard from your earlier discussions that you understand your geography quite well by listening to how you traveled through Sisak-Moslavina County and counting all the cities and municipalities, I have seen that you know the area well. So first of all, I'd like to say that there's no need for anyone to tell me what I'm supposed to say, yet I've finished some schools so that I can think with my own head about what I'm supposed to say. That's the first thing. The second thing, when we talk specifically about Sisak-Moslavina County, so our county, I believe, and all the counties have a Agricultural Development Strategy, so our county adopted it and exactly in accordance with that strategy we stick to and encourage agricultural production. Col. Djakić read here today the incentives, I guess from his county, some 17 measures, we have 16 measures that we have been through for several years, through which we encourage our farmers and I can only say that thanks to these measures and these incentives from Sisak-Moslavina County, that we are the leading county in the Republic of Croatia by the number of ecological producers, that we are at the top of the areas under ecological production, that we have raised around, so our farmers thanks to our incentives about a thousand hectares which vineyards, which are orchards, that we are the first of the number of cattle in the cow farming system, calf, that we are the leading county by the number of horses in the Republic of Croatia. So here's what it says is that we have a strategy and that we know when we're talking about agriculture in which direction we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29584	Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29585	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what we've heard about what's going to happen with the rest of these 25% of the agricultural land or the sale, and I believe that surely of these 17 measures will not be extinguished, there will be no money to encourage them, especially for what is important, and we've heard from colleagues from Grubisic that it is an important cadastrian measure. That they financed as well as the projects that were in agricultural production, let's say... milk, milk. We also encouraged 2% of the interest subsidies in the development of agriculture, which is no longer available. We have to tell our citizens no, the government took it from us, transferred it to the Ministry so that it could finance the agency and its employees for you. Simple. We have to tell what's true, yes, we won't give it to you anymore, we're breaking contracts, it's the end of that story, the cadastrian surveyor is paying every municipality for themselves if he can, some government salary, the county can't take it anymore. And secondly, the county had opportunities for those units of local self-government that didn't make programmes and who didn't call the tenders to intervene and do it for them. It was within the law of opportunity. We may not have used that in some counties. I don't think a rich peasant should be a threat to anyone and a rich peasant is a rich country. The beggar is certainly a beggar state. We've got to keep that combination in our head. If we're going to do as it says in this law, and without visible criteria, and if we're going to appoint from local self-government how, how will this one member who will be in the commission be elected to the agency? How? Are they going to set him up by a party or a council of municipalities? I'm just asking who.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29586	Zoran Vasic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29587	So esteemed counterpart Djakic, it is clear above all what the job of the opposition is, should be criticised. That's absolutely clear. However, if it comes to the fact that the county is left without this income but if we achieve that, I won't say almost all available land we put into office but we put a large majority of them into office, so don't you think that this farmer of ours, this O.P.G. who, in the economic programme, needs to write how many employees he has, how much he plans to hire one more, that he will hire three, four, so that he will make income, pay taxes to local self-government, would as a county and I believe all the county, I believe yours, should be satisfied with that. Does it matter whose cash register he's going to? It is the money of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, ultimately of all farmers who can use it. So if I put the intensity and the emphasis on that part of the law and that wish of the Ministry to put much more state-owned agricultural land into operation because then we increase production, then the amount of wheat produced will be so much that we will supply or export not only to Europe but also to Australia and wherever. And just since I have time, I'm just going to say what I didn't get to discuss. So watch how it worked before. I have here conclusions from meetings held in March 2010 on the problem of the availability of state agricultural land where the three meetings were held by the ministry's representatives with units of local self-government and one meeting with the mayors where the ministry is created, which is the main one, which should take care of and essentially pressure the cities and municipalities to put it into office, they transfer responsibility to the mayors, so they say they are in charge of holding a meeting on better country-owned agricultural land, that all the counties should deliver within 15 days to the Ministry what they have done, to be in charge of... to coordinate the implementation of these conclusions in their county, media reports on the activities undertaken, which should scare the mayors and the mayors into doing something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29588	Thank you. And the last replica of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29589	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you told your colleague Vasic that one of the reasons why it is a new law is that 74 municipalities or cities did not bring a programme on the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia or that it is about 14% by statistics. I'm interested when you've already calculated that that's 14% of the amount of land in the percentage amount of the total processing area is in those 14% of the municipalities that didn't bring those programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29590	Reply to the replica Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29591	Thank you. So, I didn't say that that's why it went into the amendments to the law, but that's one of the reasons why I think transferring jobs to the Agricultural Land Agency makes sense. So someone said, but I don't remember who, if Mr. Hrg is, that he would ultimately want this to all result, this law to result in better use of land and all other parameters. So, at this point, the minister can't guarantee 100% that 890000 ha will be put into office. But let's all think positively and let's all give it a maximum chance to put it into that function. Now look, if you're talking about 13 and a half percent that didn't make available programs, you take away 890,000 to 552000 ha, which is in the available programs, and what we have is certain that this number is somewhere. But then, it doesn't matter how many acres it's made. Because in the end, it's incomprehensible that you're in favour of selling state agricultural land, and you weren't able to sell all those 200 and some hectares, but only 29%. So I'm thinking what are we talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29592	Thank you. For the individual debate of fellow Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29593	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here are the distinguished colleagues and colleagues from this morning we've been talking about Croatian agriculture and the most common charge on the part of the ruling coalition is that Croatian villages and peasants are guilty of HDZ, guilty of politics, guilty of HSS. It's nobody else's fault. And let's be honest, there are older and younger and good memories for us when the roots of the destruction of Croatian villages were also Croatian peasants? They haven't been since the '90s. It was war that destroyed him even more, but after World War II, the peasant was on the lowest branches. The peasant was not allowed to have land, the peasant was an evil word. Parents told their children in the country if you don't study, you'll dig and plow. The comrades who won the war went into the cities, run the companies. What should have been said to have kept sheep and cattle somewhere? It was a shame to be a peasant. The peasant couldn't have more than 10 ha at all, he was a cult and marked. We had cooperatives, we had colhoses, we invested in it. The peasant had old infrastructure, old tractors, little land and so lived. The village lived badly. It was a shame to be in the country. They prefer to live in tenant apartments and eventually collect the land rather than live young people in the country. The 1990s came, we got our own Croatia. Unfortunately, the cruel war, the cruel war that killed thousands of cattle, stole, stole your aggressors from our Croatia, stole our cattle. The land is mined. The peasant is back on the lowest branches but still lives on. And the peasants won't be able to kill themselves easily, not even with such laws, not even with such sentences. What did it look like? First incentives say all the incentives, steal, kill each other. Well, if it wasn't for these incentives today, the village wouldn't even be in this stage that we're talking about right now with some, some of them with disdain. That's not what it would be, it wouldn't be. That is why the first incentives were introduced to strengthen the peasant, so that he could buy the machinery. It also went gradually to rounding the earth. So how could it be circled if the land books weren't arranged not now burned in the war, burned, disappeared, in Belgrade a large part of the books. So how are we gonna handle this now? Very difficult. One is a theory, and the other is a practice. The one who has never lived in the country in his life, the one who is ashamed to say that he was born in the country today if he tries to speak from another of his philosophical views, must again stand up for the peasant to give the dignity to return to him. Through what? Through his country. For a peasant, the country has power and it has great power. No, he doesn't. The peasant doesn't want the country because he's the only one who's dealing with it. Yes, he has heirs, but he wants to process the land. Today we have a law that before us all happiness is in the first reading. I really hope that since this morning's debate, so it seems to me that tomorrow we will continue, regardless of all the sentences and words that have fallen here, sometimes they have been rougher, yet they will respect some of our views. I wanted to say a few objections to this law. Today, everyone was really making good remarks, and I want to say that we should appreciate it. It should also be respected for this agency and its three members. It's really not good to just be so centralized that they swore when they came to power of the Kukurik coalition absolute decentralisation. There's no such thing. However, they never swore to agrarian politics because probably looking at this law and the support they've reduced by so I'd say 2.5 million are just as destroying the village. They didn't swear on it, so we can't blame them like Prime Minister Milanovic said, so God didn't even promise you anything. That's true. What surprises me about the current minister is that when there were floods and droughts that he simply said ah God after seven days until it was found, until he came up with what he would and what he said he would say, so the village will anyway, the family economies will fail and let those who can't, cannot. So you need to make conditions for the OPGs that they can produce because they will, they know and they will certainly produce it. You see, we've been waiting 14 months for this bill to come before us. The minister is talking about how it's been destroyed for eight years, how it's been destroyed for nine years, so when they knew it all, it's not clear to me that it's been 14 months for a bill like this to be written. Well, that's what the priority was. And why does it matter? That's what I said today, so it's important that by mid-May 2013, agricultural economies have to report the number of hectares they process to get support. Everything that will be processed after June will have no support and will not be able to change that by 2020. Agricultural economies will not be able to achieve the right to 2,000 kuna and few who can bring this land to culture. He says our peasant will continue to be uncompetitive on the European market. Well, according to this, of course he will. But I'm thinking, and why is that, why did 14 months of the minister pass as far as this law is concerned? And then by analysing the support and the budget of two, all somehow led me to suspect that the minister had deliberately stalled this, regardless of what he knew was an important law, and to save the amount of support he had failed to secure in the budget. Such a very unsuccessful concept states that agriculture is being driven into an industrialization that becomes a facade in order to favour large systems and try to destroy small economies. But remember these small economies still produce enough food to feed themselves and ourselves. In addition, these small economies are the backbone of the Croatian village and if we really don't want that Croatian village to be extinguished now, if we won't throw it into the living mud, help him to buy his own country, help him to have that peasant who borders on him have 5 hectares if, and borders with someone who has a total of 20 so that he can be as round as the European peasant has 30 hectares. He can't do it with a free contract. So think about it. I don't really want to continue to owe it because we've said a lot more in replicas and debates. But once again, I want to bet that the peasant is not an ugly word, that the peasant should be given living conditions in that village, that he should be assured, that he is not humiliated in a way that accuses him of embezzling everything he has received from the state. It's not. They've embezzled some people, names and last names. Whoever knows, we heard a lot today, why doesn't he report it? There's no point in applying in this law, though, because there's no one here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29594	Thank you. Replica, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29595	Here is the Honorable Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and I am here at least to defend the system that was until the 1990s but you have made some incorrect data regarding peasants and land ownership. Unlike other transition countries or Eastern European countries, the Republic of Croatia was in great advantage of ownership. By the 1990s, private ownership in the Republic of Croatia was 65%. According to what you've been saying since the '90s, we've taken a bad advantage of the Republic of Croatia, we've taken bad advantage of it. And I wouldn't accept your position that it's embarrassing or that it's humiliating to be of peasant origin and something. Okay. [[I didn't say that at all.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29596	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29597	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I didn't say at all that my point of view is that it's a shame to be a colleague but we remember those years that it was a very peasant to be a disgrace. And who did it? Well, they've been since '45, '50. And on and on. ... It was a shame because when someone said "poor" they were all very offended, my colleague. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as for the village's collapse and it's healed unforgivable, the land is abandoned. Well, you remember, you don't remember, neither do I, because we're a little younger. There were 3 villages, 3 villages, one across the ocean, one in Western Europe. So who do you think went? Well, people from the village went because they couldn't eat there, themselves and their family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29598	But I'd like to ask you to discuss the subject, which is the subject of the law. Well, we're always on the subject. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29599	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said your colleagues, and Mandic here reiterated that 65% was private property before the war, so one of the countries in that communist system that had a relatively high percentage of the ownership of agricultural land, so private ownership, right. However, the years came when, because of one steak, agriculture was killed, and that is to say that all customs duties, excise duties, import food taxes that followed and where imports of around 2 billion euros were killed by the entire Croatian agriculture. About the fact that this government has long taken its stand in some of the statements you spoke about about in the drought, right? There's no money, and there's nothing to go on. Well, then, the peasants are parasites, from the first former vice president of the government, and then the Slavons are lazy. That's where I tell Slavons, then I mean in total, first of all, the farmers of Slavonian. These are all the sayings spoken by the officials of this government. So, this government is actually a agricultural burden and this law, let's say, which is now about agricultural land is actually kind of an attempt to do something. It's been waiting 14 months, I don't know why, and it's been suspended, so it's been suspended for state agricultural land as soon as it comes into power, so with last new year, so 14 months, 13, 14 months. Which is why it's been waiting a year. I don't know. And as for livestock and what happened in the war, so the poor cattle fund, I was a witness because I was a Croatian specialist and I saw, not only in 91 and 92, but also in 95 when, when that good part of the cattle was stolen, it was left wandering around the deserts and pastures of the former so-called. It's a zoning area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29600	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29601	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, here's how you must have been involved in both the sanity and the fellow veterinarians, of course, even under grenades, were removing animals that were wounded or killed. Yes, but we have to say, indeed, Madam Vice President, it's about everything that's been said about the village and the production and you know it, it's about the country, of course, and it's about these support that's been spitin' so much, so we need to know, here's colleague Bilek very well how only one branch has been promoted, it's beekeeping. For example. which we have increased the number of hives. No one is talking about how this agriculture is preserved, because I think Croatia is one of the last oasis in the European Union which is indeed, we would like to say it can support organic production. And we have to use it the same way. And here in this law should be given in some way priority to producers who will deal with this organic production, young producers. Here I was watching the village show, a group of young people who finished colleges and wanted to come home, they need land, they need support. Include them in this law, too, so let them know that they are the ones who will surely win. So then there are our defenders who, through their agricultural defense cooperatives, employ some 3,000 defenders, 3350 have co-operatives. And they need the earth, and mention it, and it is not of excess. Neither defenders nor youths are excess when mentioned in this law, that they have the advantage, of course, if they have a good program. And since she's gonna have a good program, I hope, I hope it doesn't have anything to do with what the name says, so she'll know it's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29602	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29603	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, here's what you said in your presentation is one theory and another practice. I keep looking at this article in the 50th and the item that talks about direct sale and contract. And there are really a number of possibilities of manipulation, and they need to be either standardized and said to what height we're going to, or matched to some normal state. Because if you as the owner of the land want to buy state land that is the first particle to you, you can buy a particle size slightly less than yours. So if you have 20,000 squares, you can buy 19,900, but if you have 20, and the particle is 20 100 meters and then you go to the lease and your neighbor can get that same particle in order to round up, not your household, but someone else's, so tender. I think the proposer here has to react and say what he wants, what happens when I buy the first particle as a buffer with those particles in the back? You're getting in the middle of every next one. Whether or not this falls under this Article 50(a). May I buy everything in order until the last one owned by the State. It can't be read out of this, or I'll take the first part in the sale and everything else in the lease. That's something the Proposer must answer, and I'd like him to answer us simply if we had no doubts in the implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29604	The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29605	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, according to this, you seem to be allowed to, yes, but the motionary will probably tell us something else. But there's another category there, a category of people that's about 90 thousand acres, these are farmers who are in quiet possessions, peaceful possessions, and it's not solved here anywhere. They can't, their program won't go away, of course, because they're illegally processing the country. What's going to happen to them isn't said. So I hope we find out the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29606	We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29607	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, I don't doubt it, and I'm sure in fact that there's no one here in this Assembly Hall who thinks that this law should not be achieved and that former law has been passed, which is to strengthen agricultural production. To strengthen the village, to place as much state land as possible in agriculture, a agricultural function. What we are diverged about in our opinions is that one MP, together with the promoter, thinks that the adoption of this new Agricultural Land Act will be a miracle and that this goal will immediately and automatically be achieved and that it could not be done solely for the sake of the bad previous law. We think something different. I personally think there's room for repair of the existing law, but I don't think this proposal that's right in front of us is the magic wand that's going to achieve it. Personally, I'm not for the sale of agricultural land either, I'm not for the sale of other valuable resources of this country, but it's a strange policy of the government, the vice president said this morning that we can't address the minister because he's not the main culprit or I don't know what, he's already responsible for this law, but then it seems to me like a hysterical government because he forgives me for saying it, but with some double, he's offering us this one law that he swears to disable the sale of agricultural land, on the other hand, he's offering us a law that will allow us to sell valuable resources. It offers us decisions to sell the only remaining in the country, one single bank, Croatia insurance, etc. But let's get back to the law. I would really like Croatia to have a good Agricultural Land Act. So first of all, I ask you to edit the definition of agricultural land or to align it with the definition of building land. This was a problem in my opinion and in my current law. So the Agricultural Law says that agricultural land is considered to be all areas of agricultural ore, gardens, pastures, orchards, etc. Whether they're inside the building area or not. The law on spatial planning and construction defines building land as a land that is within or outside the building area and which is intended for construction or construction by spatial planning documentation. And then questions are asked further than the following on Article 2 of the agricultural land which now says: "The holder has the right to property on the land cannot be foreign, legal and natural persons" and questions are asked people, foreigners ask if they can buy in Zagreb a particle that is within the building land on Tuškanac, for example, Kaptol and writes meadows in a catastrian opera. Whether they can acquire that particle or they can't acquire it. I'm telling you that neither lander nor lander knows it and that such sales are carried out even though they say meadows. So they also addressed the parliamentary committee on legislation in the past term with these issues. The second issue of ownership is that in the current law, therefore, ownership of agricultural land cannot be acquired by outsiders in legal work and that legal transactions are otherwise made for nothing. However, this law says nothing but says to holders of ownership rights cannot be foreigners. I can't get it through legal work, but I can't get it either by ex-lega or by inheriting it. So I can't possibly be the bearer. In this respect, paragraph 3 does not correspond because it must say that not only legal transactions but any decision or judicial solution or this body of the State administration will otherwise be void. So this is where the ban spreads beyond legal affairs to foreigners. It is further said in Article 4 that agricultural land must be maintained suitable for agriculture as set out in this article is not quite clear whether only particles above a thousand squares within the building area or all particles within the building area must be applied and those in the middle of the centre of Zagreb must also be applied agritechnical measures. So this article is simply not clearly encrypted. Something about a fee. I read exactly the 2008 law, which increased the drastic compensation precisely for re-use in the sense that on the day of entry into force certain land was not within the building area precisely to discourage the speculators from buying anything cheap that was later re-purposed to pay for that re-use. You said that by amending the law, we changed that. Unfortunately, not willingly but after the Constitutional Court's decision to adopt it would say a great disproportionate between those within the building area and those outside in case of re-use. But that big difference has its own reason. So I'm just repeating you have inside the building area particles are 200 years inside the building area and, of course, in all the traffic, the paid fee for them at that expensive price of building land within the building area, which is a big difference from that that someone bought cheap agricultural land on the edge and later I don't know in which way but it was repurpose. I see you've increased the percentages here, which I think is good. I hope no constitutional protection will be requested again in that sense. He further said a colleague here when he talked about re-use fees and how they are being deployed that the paper of this law is that the counties remain without their 20% of the leases. However, there is another newspaper, not only that the county is left without it but there is also a newspaper that, even in the event of the re-use of those 30% that is waste on local self-government units and in the case of the rental of 50% that fall off local self-government units, the law says the minister will determine the purpose and manner used. And the minister says that's how it's been in the law so far. It was true that it was in the current law but in the current law there was also a purpose for which the 70 and 50% that goes into the state budget must be used. So it was said by the law that only those funds would serve to round up the agricultural fund, and here in this law nothing is said that the revenues of the state budget must be used but said the minister would tell the units of local self-government that they must use their income. As far as liberating is concerned, when an investor can be released from payment of re-use, I repeat, there are a number of exceptions that are not really controversial, but certainly until the second reading should return the construction of the municipal infrastructure, not all of them to public roads. We also have that we can free up buildings for the scientific and educational activities of health care, the social care institution has no need for sport or culture but of course only if they are in the public interest. I don't think it should be free of those sports courts and football clubs where millions of transfers happen. Certainly, the provision that agricultural land is leased for a period of 50 years should be replaced by an expression of up to 50, so it turns out that it cannot be leased otherwise than for 50 years. Since time expires on me only to mention that the concept of selling is this law, then it is said that no agricultural land will be sold. I claim that since the sale through a public tender, this has gone to an exceptional but very wide sale with a direct contract. And another thing that the moratorium has been put on the implementation of the existing law these days is a lot of talk about whether a moratorium can be put on the implementation of a law. That says... The provisions show that since 31.12.2011 there has been no competition under the existing law. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29608	Next up, Miss Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29609	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. That the draft law is based on an assessment of the unsatisfactory state of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia proposes a new law aimed at contributing to better use of a more transparent and simple availability and preservation of the quality of agricultural land. The proposed legislative solutions should increase processed areas and speed up agricultural production as the ultimate objective. For this reason, I support the bill and I agree with the vast majority of the solutions proposed. But as it comes to first reading, I'm going to look at some concrete questions that should be further considered in my court and solved in an even more acceptable and fairer way and I'm going to try to be constructive at this late hour. I come from local self-government from the island of Hvar, so I will come up with a part of the law that speaks about the change and purpose of agricultural land, which is a very important topic in Dalmatia and what happens regularly when every change in spatial plans. The most common agricultural land is re-used into areas of tourism, sports or rare economic use. This topic is currently very, very current in the process of changing and supplementing the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan. The proposal for a law states in Article 22 that land which is located outside the building area on the day of entry into force of this law and after the change of the spatial plan becomes a building fee for changing the purpose of 25% of the market value of that land within the construction area, or 50 if it is worth or particularly worth the land. I welcome this provision because this means an increase in the fee compared to the current one, which is 5 and 10%, respectively. This is especially important because the proposal to amend and supplement my county's spatial plan provides for the re-use of 2149 hectares into golf courses, including 1134 on islands, 600 hectares in other sports purposes, 86 hectares in the area of the unique urban concept, 568 hectares for the airport and many more hectares for energy facilities in the tourist and economic zone. Most of these zones will take place in agricultural land and be permanently out of agricultural use so it is justified to increase the amount of compensation. However, I still see one problem, which is what the law says is that the land already within the construction area is the amount of compensation 2.5 and 5% of the market value, respectively. Starting with the fact that in the current spatial plans of units of local self-government in my county and all units have brought spatial plans to exist as much as 92 and still completely undeveloped tourist zones at 1200 hectares, which have become according to previous changes in the spatial plan, the question arises why such calls for land refurbishment fees to be left to 2.5 and 5%, respectively. I don't think there's any reason not to charge them an increased fee and it's worth finding some way to increase the fee for such land because it's still not accounted for or paid. The binding of the amount of compensation for land's planned status on the day of entry into force of this law, as is the formulation, previously redeployed land, enters every new law into a milder regime than it would have been if the law had not been passed. I propose that the amount of compensation be linked not to the day of application, the entry into force of the law, but to the day of transport of land in relation to the entry into force of a spatial plan which has set land according to specific regulations to the status of the building land. Thus, an increase in compensation would be paid if agricultural land was in a period of e.g. 10 years before the entry into force of a spatial plan which has become constructional, acquired by a natural or legal person by a chargeable legal work or otherwise, and does not fall within the circle of persons of the first inheritance order in relation to their ancestors. It is desirable to clearly define which spatial plan is relevant since there are different understandings on the ground. Is it a county spatial plan or a spatial plan to arrange a city, municipality or... I believe it is necessary to explain in detail the justification of the regulation of certain proposed rates in view of the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, because there is a danger that this law will also be declared against the constitution for the reasons already pointed out by the Constitutional Court. [[You don't understand.]] The level of the increased compensation could be linked to an increase in the market value of land that comes to the very fact that it acquires that status which should certainly be further elaborated through the implementing acts in the law. I don't see any excuse why the fee offered would be granted to investors of the golf course, and I advocate that this article, that provision, be deleted. Also, the same article frees the investor of construction and building for the provision of catering and tourist services on his own holding which sounds very nice. However, if we look at this provision in the context of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, under which 3 hectares of land on agricultural land becomes a building particle, they can build buildings on islands and 50 metres from the sea in conditions where the undefined notion of providing services in rural households and the unsolved fates of these facilities is not carried out or stopped by the agricultural activity or if the facility changes the owner. It appears that these facilities will become summer homes for selected users, so my opinion is that they should not be released from compensation. And the applicable and proposed law obliges the local self-government unit to prescribe the necessary agritechnical measures and measures to regulate and maintain agricultural mines, as if it also controls the measures taken regularly under the current law of inspection, and according to the proposal of the law to the Agency and the Ministry by 31 March each year. The supervision should be carried out by farmers who must have at least the ESS agricultural professions. I am afraid that local self-government units do not have the expertise to prescribe these measures, nor do they have the financial capacity to employ agricultural directors. At least according to my knowledge of this provision, it will often remain a dead letter on paper, especially in the context of the actual fee for the re-use of agricultural land and its distribution in which the local self-government unit belongs only 30%. So I'm pushing to increase the share of local self-government units in that division in order to be able to enforce the law. Here I also point out the problem prescribed by the units of local self-government to prepare all the documentation necessary for the land distribution agency, which is in the conditions that I have in my field of unsettled land books and cadastres for many units of very difficult tasks. In the current law, therefore, which we are changing, which we are putting ad act, in Article 18, states that land owned by a state can establish the right of service for the purpose of the construction of water lines, sewers, pipelines, power lines. My opinion is that this kind of availability should have been maintained in this law, as much as I would suggest that it be complemented by the right to build municipal water buildings. The investor of these procedures in space is in any case a public person. Of course, those rights should be free of charge for local self-government units, as well as for the state as an investor, free of charge and land building rights owned by local self-government units. Finally, and not less importantly, in order to avoid long-term court proceedings that often run units of local self-government to prove ownership of land that is in force on the day of entry into force of the Agricultural Land Act (“National Journal” 34/92) had the status of building land, I think it would be necessary to unequivocally regulate the property issue on such land in a way that it is prescribed that it is owned by a unit of local self-government in which it is located because the court proceedings that are very long and expensive ultimately end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29610	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague named Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29611	Thank you very much. My colleague, here's who's in local self-government. I've been for the same long time, and from the beginning to the end, I agree with all of you for arguing, and I would sign everything. You've mentioned it well, and I haven't gotten there, so the question of re-use, the question that every new law moves that limit actually does, and what it uses if you want to get mixed up, as it's said. And that the law doesn't really determine and doesn't clearly state what the moment of re-purpose is. Is the moment of re-use when a spatial plan is changed and a specific agricultural land is entered into the building area, which could be read out of some provisions or is the moment when the construction on that land is approached and the re-use fee is paid. So two things, one thing is when it becomes, when it enters building land, it's in the building area, and the other is the moment of payment of compensation, but it should definitely be determined in one sense. In particular, I warn of Article 38 of this Act, paragraph 3 which states the lease agreement is terminated if the leased agricultural land ceases to be agricultural because of a change in purpose. When it is, what it is, if someone had leased agricultural land. How did the re-purpose happen? If someone was on their way, it went into the construction area, so the one with the lease started building something, so he re-designed it. I mean, it's pretty incomprehensible. And besides how you can if you've leased someone land for 50 years or 30 years it doesn't matter, and it just doesn't matter that someone re-scheduled it during the lease and under what conditions. Here are the reasons why we should clearly determine the moment of re-appropriation, and perhaps keep some of the provisions of the former laws on the moment when something was to be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29612	Thank you very much, colleague. Next replica of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29613	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues Plancic, you mentioned article 24, I think, and who's getting rid of the land re-use fee, so you mentioned golf courses among other things. Here I am going to give myself the right to quote a fellow Stazic although he is not here in the debate on golf courses as he has said, and we see that in the law it is proposed. "Look, the very fact that the government has proposed such a law should be enough for Mr. Bajic to invite you to talk to you and those who agree with such a bill, so as to determine how many commissions there are. Because to propose here to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public, that Croatian forests be taken away from the state and given to private ones without any compensation for over-intention, that the country can be taken away as if the highway was built because someone could make enormous profits." It's a finished quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29614	Next in the debate of counterpart Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29615	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Assistant Minister. It is no wonder that this proposal of this Law in its first reading has caused this much interest of MPs from all political parties working in the Parliament, because it is my opinion that this is one of the most important laws that we are passing in this session of the Croatian Parliament. The aim of this law is certainly to improve and speed up management of state agricultural land. The fact that so far the laws on this subject have not responded to the needs of Croatian agricultural holdings and legal entities in agricultural production is that since the last 8 or 10 years total has been put into operation only 262000 ha of land. It says first and foremost that the law was not clear enough and that the units of local self-government under the proposed and adopted law could not rule in a good way. For these reasons, I support the adoption of a new law, and I am glad that in democratic procedure we can be clear about all the things that are not good. I will state my personal position that debates and colleagues Lovrin and colleagues Gjurjice have been of great benefit to help make this law better and better. This Law covers one of the most valuable natural treasures of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. land. There are water and forest along the land of the Republic of Croatia. These are the special natural resources that the Republic of Croatia must safeguard in all possible ways, and I am surprised that previous governments have also proposed part of the sale of state-owned agricultural land. In my opinion, state agricultural land, water and forests are irreparable national wealth. For these reasons, I fully support the bill's proposal that state agricultural land cannot be sold. State agricultural land is the greatest treasure of the Croatian people. It is also the foundation of the Croatian homeland. As my colleague Maria said, so said the esteemed pedologist Gracanin in '42. And I don't think much has changed since that time. What is clearly touched in this law is that it is a question of devastation of agricultural land, because the land that is once lost is permanently lost and that is why I think that the re-use must be under special control both the professions, both the ministry and, in any case, the agencies. By reducing the surface and quality of land, we have a significant impact on the reduction of economic and general useful functions that provide the potential. This natural wealth deserves a safe arrangement, protection, and organized care. In order to do all of this, land books need to be arranged. We had last week and the Law on Land Books that would speed up, because we have data that everything somewhere around 3% has been introduced into the possibility of electronic processing and electronic access to citizens. What also worries is that the relationship between the Republic of Croatia from the 1990s to today was not suitable for national wealth, it was not appropriate to invest and maintain land. This can be supported by data that from the 1990s to today a very small number of hectares have been placed in the function of dreated surfaces, and the drenated surfaces allow quality production. We are also one of the weakest countries where land is used, land use with irrigation. What matters most is that the soil is created slowly, and that it is rapidly devastated. What this law should also be accepted is that land must also play a role in the service and defence of the Republic of Croatia and issues of the retention of the population in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia which are of particular interest because such an unquality relationship with the state agricultural land can also question the very existence and security that can relate to the use of land. What I would also point out here is that it is particularly important to implement very strict criteria in the reuse of agricultural land. So, especially strict criteria, and it is particularly important to encourage the circulation of agricultural land, whether it is a state agricultural land or private agricultural land. And I think that this agency and the Ministry of Agriculture should make it much easier to carry out replacements for the purpose of rounding up. Why am I saying this? Because circular production gives better quality financial results and gives more competitive production. What has repeatedly been stressed in the debates is that good agrarian policies always increase production. The Agency, what I think is a lack and I think that the legislator of this law should also act as an accept that we do not need to bring into any unequal position the unit of local self-government and the agency. I think the synergy of each other must be exploited because each other's aim is to put state agricultural land into office as soon as possible. So I think the agency should have the last word, but in terms of positions in the commission itself, they should have equal relations, 50% members of local self-government, 50% agencies, with the last word being the agency. I think we would thus give the necessary importance to the units of local self-government. For what reason? Because I'm afraid that no matter how many we created and how hard we tried to strengthen it with quality people, I don't think we'll ever be able to do what we can do together with local self-government units, especially in control and in implementation. That's why I'd suggest we think about it anyway. What would also give one dynamic to this law would certainly be good if we put certain management activities with deadlines. Because here we can talk about good intentions and I don't doubt it, but it would certainly be good to put those deadlines on. What I would now be so specifically by the members, article 18 of the pedology lab. What labs? That's what I'd like the Ministry or the Proposer to determine exactly that we can't have big wanderings. If these are high-level scientific institutions in agriculture, then I support colleges. But that's the question of the market itself and everything. Article 22 of re-purpose I think the better proposal is the one from the summer of 2012. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 50-50 Furthermore, Article 27, although I know what it refers to, would certainly be good if an arbitrary technical whole were to be explained more precisely. Article 29. I think that, in any case, common offers should be used both for the lease and for the pastures and for all. Because if we have a number of quality manufacturers and I think it's a trend to make it and why it would make it impossible, I don't see any reason why they wouldn't be able to accept it if they were quality programs and everything else. Article 30 I agree with the economic 60, the current owner of 20. Under the C-level lease double, I think we immediately came up with a double lease increase and should certainly put D domicility And maybe Article 32(6) of the contract is justified. [[Breeding Zgrebec: Thank you, colleague, close the debate.]] To make sure of that. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29616	Thank you. Replica, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29617	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, it's just weird how with constructive discussions, we actually agree on a lot of things, and I agree with you that we shouldn't sell what's most valuable, and that's agricultural land, water, forest and maritime well-being, and then tourism land that we managed to protect, etc., etc. And that's why he should never, in any way, remain an article of the 50th proposal in the same way that he's here because he opens up a lot of possibilities of abuse and selling to a direct contract, and it's unnecessary. Why? For the first time, paragraph 1 cannot stand can be sold exceptionally. What does that mean? So someone can, and someone doesn't have to. If these are the conditions, when the conditions are met, then it must stand to be sold. So, when I apply for sales and I've met these conditions, I need to be sold. It can't be can or can't be. But I'm asking why I didn't even get the answer making sense why we should sell neighboring land to round up? Why should it be sold to build a farm? Why can't it all go on lease? Why can't someone who owns it have the next 20 acres in lease for 50 years and carry out their agricultural activity? As far as extradition is concerned, it should not be mentioned at all because it is an extradition procedure and there is a settlement in the extradition procedure and it does not belong there. As for when it is being brought into another economic function, then it will probably go for a re-use because it must be in accordance with the spatial plan intended for another purpose and then go to that building land that is intended for construction of someone outside the building area. In any event, in order to fulfil what is said to be achieved by this law, which is that agricultural land is not sold, then this Article 50 could not remain as it is in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29618	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29619	Here, thank you very much to my colleague, Lovrin. I think it is the desire of all of us to make a law that will be in place and that will benefit and develop agriculture production, especially with this pearl, the jewel of the Republic of Croatia land. I agree, Article 50 must be more precise. That you have to figure out the size of a particle, because I don't know the particle is 30 acres yours, and you're buying a 20-hectare particle, which I think we should certainly take care not to question both the morality and the quality of it all. What I haven't been able to say in my debate now I'm going to use that, the proposer of this law and the Ministry of Agriculture, to come up with this proposal, and ultimately to take care of biodiversity. In some parts of the Republic of Croatia, it is specifically about Baranja, which is agricultural land, the issue of preserving biodiversity, because there is a large agro system that has said that there are as many as 120 hectares that remain unprocessed. I think the law in the protection of biodiversity in view of the great potentials that we have in Baranja would have to predict that certain surfaces, certain oasis, certain parts that would allow animals to live in their habitat unobstructed. Also, the issue of the economic programme for 50 years. And the question of what are these moments that will allow the change of the economic programme given who will norm it and who will make it possible to change it, or am I who got the country I got by the second programme. Well, I think that part needs to be specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29620	Thank you very much. And Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29621	My esteemed deputy and parliamentary representative has well threatened that agricultural land is also extremely important in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here are all these years we haven't solved the issue of those overseas, so to speak, the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the question is what about those orans, we also hear the Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša, which is with that arbitration agreement, which I was against, normally against because I said that this arbitration court can even question Ilica here in Zagreb and say that Ilica is Ilica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29622	My colleague, the agricultural land, he wasn't talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29623	Yeah, that's it, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29624	... Ivica Mandic did not talk about the Slovenian agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29625	Look, the esteemed president said that agricultural land is a function of defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. I say what can happen when the arbitration court and the arbitration agreement that you voted for, and was against President Josipovic's present, says Ilica Slovenija. So I ask the question is it St. Gera, and did the ministry use this law to think about the orans in St. Gera? Probably not, and that's also Croatian territory. And this isn't a joke. But, Mr. Mandic, I just want to say, and I hope you agree with me that this is a law that abolishs the function of local self-government. It abolishes both me and you in decision-making and abolishes that commission, citywide.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29626	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29627	Here, thank you very much, esteemed Vice President. A colleague said, I think the destination of the SDP-HNS-IDS-HSU is quite clear. That it refers to the country, to the state agricultural land very responsibly and the view is that it is not sold, and we can certainly, if I further bind myself to your debate... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This, surely, applies to all agricultural land and it would support my debate, which I said that the country binds people, that we must use this and that potential of strength, the quality of land that it binds people to itself because it is not interested with it in the Republic of Croatia remains 35 major owners with large areas of agricultural land and it will then be a great shame for agricultural production and for the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. I think that in these things that the ministry and the government have decided that there is no sale, that there is a need for more efficient resolution, more quality and all these ways to encourage more competitive agricultural production, not only in livestock production, but those that are accompanied by agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29628	It is up to colleagues, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29629	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm going to say at first that I don't support this bill, because I find it significantly worse than the existing one. I can agree with colleagues who said this was a disaster for Croatian peasants. Although I can't agree with some stories that this isn't about selling, it's about renting, etc. But I'll try to explain it in my debate. We are witnessing that a Croatian peasant we have heard from colleague Sumrak live for centuries with his country and it is worth it regardless of what we have spoken in him or as we have heard today, we have turned them today into criminals who, behold, want to buy a country and sell it and then live happily ever after without doing anything. I don't agree with that kind of explanation. We heard today and here that this is one reform law that will change a lot and most of all through the Agriculture Land Agency, and I don't agree with that, because in order for there to be some kind of reform for me to be or must offer something that is faster, better, fairer, more transparent. Unfortunately, of all these characteristics, I see absolutely nothing in this bill. As far as faster procedures are concerned, I don't think this bill offers them, because under this law, a peasant maltera becomes a scientist. It must be able to write an economic programme, predicting what it will do for 50 years, not only that, but every year it must submit a report as soon as it is available to state land, then it must submit a report on what it did or did not work on its land. What's that for? I'll try to explain on an example of fishing licenses. I'm from the island, so I know what that means. To get a fishing licence as a resident of the island, you have to fill out the report every year. You have to send those reports to one county center and inside you have to write how many fish you've caught, how many of them are in all kinds, you have to know all kinds of fish etc. to get the possibility of a re-free permit. I can explain to you what it looks like. Mostly Croatian fishermen or fishermen from Croatian islands absolutely very little money, there are two kg, three kg etc. I'm afraid these reports of our peasants who must become scientists or people from the book will be the same or similar. Now there's a question of competition. Who can do better than them? Who can do better? Who might already be ready for this kind of law. Those who have employees, advisers, who have paid for such things can also write economic programs very quickly and certainly also report what they are doing with that agricultural land. They can do much better than Croatian peasants and are much more competitive in that segment. They're already starting to have a big advantage. They won't have a problem with that speed in this form of law. And that we've entered an even bigger red tape. Here we have the agricultural inspectors now, when you're just heading towards those little OPGs, so when they find out and the best is found out what's missing, I know by the hospitality when the inspectors come, they find everything bad in a small house right now, but in a big hotel they can hardly notice anything. That's how it's gonna be with this law. Transparent? I don't see transparency because it's lost in decentralisation of the decision-making system. We've had one way so far, now we're offering one other way, two agency representatives and one selected from the local level. It is simply lost and now someone from Zagreb will see better what is going on in Đakov, I do not know in some other places of Slavonia, or perhaps on which island. That's not good for me. We have a lot of laws that are decentralised and we see their effects on the ground. I think we'll agree here that it's not the happiest solution. And especially if we know that these programmes will be economical and these reports will be read and evaluated by people who can only have one year of experience in the profession and work at the Agency. If he is a year old, he can tell nicely what anyone can or can't do, then the question is, where are we going with a proposal like this? Justice doesn't exist through this law because it's not fair for someone who's borderline selling and someone who doesn't border on us to rent it. And now the question is also raised and these borders are either the intermediate or this famous article 50th and the item is whether there is a particle, a cadastrian particle or land owned by a state that is an island to itself. It doesn't exist. Each of these particles shall be bordered by another and each may be sold by direct contract through Article 50(1) and up to one. What's the problem? Those particles back there, and I asked that question today, but I didn't get an answer, which when he became the owner of the first particle to mine. Can I buy the next one? I can use the direct contract again because I own the one and the one that I got or I'm going to enter the system of injustice, so I'm going to buy the first particle to my own, and the other one that's a little further, and I'm going to get it for circulation, and I'm going to rent it. Is that a fair solution? I think the issue of sales should be clearly defined. We need to define a clear article in paragraph 50 and norm it through the total number of squares that can be bought and as far as can be bought by direct contract or in some other way that will bring justice that people in the village expect, because like this anyone who has the first particle can buy everything but now not in a public competition but in a direct contract. Do you agree? I think that's the way it is. That's what the law says. Says item "A." "For cadastral land particles bordering the land owned by the applicant, when the size of the particle sold is not greater than the particle owned by the applicant." Now I've got 20,000 squares, I've got 19 and 900, and I've got 20 grand and 100. Is that fair? It works 100 squares something is either sold or leased. And that needs to be clearly defined. As I'm saying here, it's possible to sell all of this out because every particle borders with someone else and sell out in a way that can be directly affected. I think these are facts that need to be defined to the end. And then we listen to the minister's explanations that Croatian economies or family economies are small, three times smaller than the EU average and we round them up in a way that we do not allow them to sell. Now that it goes with each other, it doesn't make sense to me. We're rounding up, but we're banning sales. I think we're going to stay on this and much smaller family economies because those who have problems will see that everything they have in some way sells out. On the total surfaces, I think it's embarrassing that in 2013, we're looking at the 2005 data that this should be much more precise when a law like this has been passed that has registered more people to discuss in the first reading than on the state budget, which means that it's important for people, that they also want to participate. I hope we don't get a similar or the same in the second reading, with explanations that nothing that's said here holds water like it's said or doesn't matter or that something's wrong. And the attitude towards the Croatian peasant clearly defined one sentence in one film when a man says "Take everything from me but don't touch the country". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29630	Thank you. Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29631	There is a song "Ledina" by Slavonski Lola but not to sing it now, but it is far stronger than Djuka Begovic. You see, an esteemed colleague, the worst is when the future starts with me, the worst. It's been proven in history. And when every law we bring represents some new brighter future, some star five-pointed in that tunnel and light in the tunnel, etc. It's the worst thing about it. No, the future doesn't start tomorrow, the future may have started 20 years ago by converting and privatizing, and perhaps now God will forgive me for what I commended Cobankovic for not being all right about what the ministry did that same thing used to act as if the future was starting with them. That's how this ministry behaves. But the fact is that this law is bad, that it is bad written that the consequences of this law are disastrous for Croatian agriculture. And I don't care what happened yesterday, I care what happens tomorrow. With this law, many family economies lose their chances because they cannot have a better program than those Croatian concerts, giants that have grown from this conversion and privatisation. And I say openly, no, this law was written and written by the Ministry of Agriculture, written by Agrokor, written by an assistant minister who now works in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29632	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29633	Well, I wouldn't exactly agree with it if ministers came with other people's laws to this house. I don't think they can afford it that way. I have clearly given in my debate a practice that is possible under this bill, which is that each particle can be sold because each border is bordered by some border, whether on one side, whether on three or on all four sides. And that's just what this law says we're going to do with a direct contract. There's danger. And the economic program is that fuse that can give someone a head start. I believe that the service of the agency, which I am the minister of, has been doing nothing since this year, that the incompetent Malta has not been, that it will become capable overnight and that it will be able, and that we are talking about thousands of hectares reading all these economic programmes, reading all these reports and acting very quickly. I don't think that's going to be because there are a number of examples where the state agencies have taken on a lot of such jobs, so today you're having trouble getting any answer as a parliamentary representative within a month, two days, let alone this peasant is going to be miserable with all these great writings, and already at the beginning he's a little depressed, which means he doesn't know and he can't, not at all, but he's going to have a little problem. And that ministry has to do something to even it out anyway because if we only have the most important economic programme with 60 points where the market price and everything else is below, then the question is what will be in the reports because you're giving something to 50 years. The one who gets can say in the first three years I haven't done anything but I still have 47 to accomplish everything I wrote. And I don't think at that time the board of directors or anyone who works there will do much to make it right. These are some small remarks of ours, and it's good that the law is in the first reading and these qualifications are who wrote what I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29634	Thank you. Anna Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29635	Thank you very much. Well, you said you didn't see transparency in this law, etc. If it were possible to sell every particle, actually, according to article 50, but here I would add this and that's why this legal text needs to be edited. It is interesting that the article 54 on the Land Fund states that "the Agency has the right to purchase first agricultural land sold in a public tender for agricultural land owned by the state at the same price it was bought". So what has been in the public competition so far is the question and retroactivity that arises if it has not been in the law so far, then the question is, can something that has been sold under that law be subsequently banned, or the right to buy first? I don't think he can do that, but I'm surprised, or maybe it's a random mistake to propose the law, and I think maybe that's what it is. Therefore, it should be stated that the agency has the right to purchase the first agricultural land sold by direct contract because this law no longer provides for a public tender for sale but only a direct contract. Therefore, in the case of sales under those conditions, if and how they are, Article 50 should certainly be determined to enroll the law of the first agency in the case of sale at the same price at which it was purchased, and as regards this public tender, if the law so far did not provide for it, I believe that it is inadmissible retroactiveness, to impose it as an obligation on customers at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29636	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29637	Well, colleagues, as far as transparency is concerned, it's been said many times today and it's really not good to put an end to this current way where units of local self-government have been bringing in a programme on which the ministry has agreed and they've been calling for a lease and selling on account of how they're going to kill it now more justly, that there's no more corruption here, etc. With all this red tape that's now showing up, there's a lot of space opening up, I mean when something comes to the state body, etc. where there is a great interest in these particles, especially for state land, all of this is possible. And as for agency opportunities and first purchases, I said what budget 18 million is next 2 years, this is 19.5, of which is all free million kunas for the purchase of immaterial, let's call it, immaterial property. What can we do with a million kunas in the first piece of the Republic of Croatia? At least not until this land fund story comes back to life, and that's still a matter of time and procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29638	And Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29639	Dear fellow Boric, that the key, one of the important keys in this law, is an economic programme that holds 60 points, although people who evaluate your program give you a green light and if they give you a maximum number of points and give someone a minimum number of points regardless of the quality of the program, does not mean that they should be in advance suspicious of the good intentions of these people. What you said was who's going to read it all, if we can't get an answer to a representative's question in 30 or 60 days. How quickly will it be resolved, when it will move, the question is what you have also insisted on in your debate, whether farmers need to be strategists. So we don't have a strategy for agricultural production, but we're going to ask farmers to build a program to compete for some land attractive or less attractive land in the next 50 years. It is not clear to me whether a programme should be made for all 50 years like you said or should be done in a few years, which will be produced in 20 years on that land, it is very questionable, how this land will be, etc. So in this, the best part of this program, this law is that it's the first reading, and I hope that by the second reading, the ministry, or the Government Proposer, will solve it, and that on the second reading, it will be much clearer, and it will be clearer to us, meaning this sale of land, the first particle to mine. How can you do that, now imagine what you said to your colleague, Boric, that it is possible that such a particle per particle is bought.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29640	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29641	Thank you. Each particle can be bought in this way and it's a direct contract, so there's no contest, there's no direct contract, because each borderline with someone else and none of them are alone. And this point story, I think it would be fairer if we already wanted an economic programme to even it out especially for people with peasants who are in peaceful possession, who get 20%, 20 points for it, and already work on it, so they're not just owners, but they have a certain program they're working with, and let the market price be too much in favour of this or that. Because this is how it turns out that you're already starting on a bad economic programme and you're no longer competitive so that at least you offer a million kunas more than the first one. The economic programme cannot carry 60 points like this because then they all come under the auspices of the agency and their judgments, and knowing certain abilities and possibilities. So we look only at local self-government that has a lot of problems with EU funds where a certain level of documentation should be met. This is something like that. The economic programs of this government are also not God knows what and they are written in public enterprises all working with losses etc. But if that's the most important thing, then this other thing doesn't matter. With 60 points you've solved, it's yours, everything else is minor. If this decreases, and the share of those already in possession is increased because they are already working, then let them have a chance to be competitive, not like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29642	Thank you. It's Zoran Vinkovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29643	There was also a request for replication, etc. So I'm gonna end up the way I started almost 12 hours ago, this is an extremely bad law. This is a law on the fraud of farmers and all the O.P.G.s. This is a law on favoring large ones, this is a law on spitting and throwing on the knees of all units of local self-government, all the mayors, mayors, mayors, all the members of the committees involved in the business. In front of many, and even members of the SPD, there were tractors in front of the houses, angry farmers, it was then organised by HDZ. It's spit on all of them. This is also the law on the flowering of corruption, because this law allows the sale by direct contract. This is a law that does not allow anything to develop agricultural production does not even enable the return of agricultural land, introduces new centralisation. It introduces a series of things that are not related to the law so far. Finally, it introduces those 25% that have been tied up and have enabled certain programmes in regional self-government in the counties. Many of these districts have signed contracts. I ask the question of what about that land of special interest to the units of local self-government, what was allowed by the programme of availability. After all, the programme was end-of-the-mill by the competent ministry and gave its consent. On these programmes, units of local self-government did not mix but wanted to develop their unit of local self-government through economic zones. Some opted for a golf course, some decided to build factories, industrial zones. It all falls into the water. With this law, everything falls into the water. And if no one gets mad, I'll be done, even before time, long before time ends. I had a company, I had to stay big, I had to stay big. Who am I going to protect with the law of large or small? There's a series that was when I was a big boy and a kid, showing up in that socialist thing. The kids always won the big ones. But by this law, this Frankenstein law is a great victory for the little ones. If it's not clear to anyone, he can sue me. He's got all the data. Because some of these big companies are both in the Djakov area and in Djakov. And for this reason do not sell fog, do not sell fog, for this Law does not protect either the farmer, nor the cattleman, nor the winemaker, nor the oliver, nor any Croatian farmer. They protect themselves large, protect the processors, and destroy the unit of local self-government. Those to whom the citizens gave their mandate are destroyed, entrusted with the mandate to decide such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29644	But you have another replica, colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29645	My colleague Vinkovic, I would not quite agree with the fact that they are very much protecting the great, etc. Because there should then be an interest in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia where there is state agricultural land. They're not the big ones you're talking about on every last piece. There are opportunities for small ones as well. But the fact is, this evaluation and the score at the beginning gives them a certain advantage. If, given that this is the law in the first reading, it can be fixed, then your claims might not be that form. It is necessary to change the way of the score and give the small OPGs the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities provided by this Law and to buy what they can buy, since apparently and directly they will be able to buy almost every particle of state land regardless of the story we hear there is no sale. Everything can be bought and we'll prove it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29646	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29647	That's how the wolf swallowed the Red Hood's grandmother, because Grandma believed the wolf wouldn't eat her, and so did the Red Hood. And then came a loon or a hunter and freed both Red Hood and Grandma. I don't know a fellow Boric how old you are, but I believe that in those years you don't want to get angry with the children of Croatia you believe in Santa. I don't believe it anymore. This law is written for large, written and everything will be done to destroy every family economy in the Republic of Croatia except for those potentially similar, except those who, with certain gifts, will enter into this direct contract programme without competition. And it won't be an exception it'll be a rule. It'll be a rule. And as for us locals, the boss here, I'm wearing this hero, not a criminal, I'm not wearing a marshal's star, I'm not a sheriff. So if I'd done something, then the State's Attorney's Office would've come for me if I'd given someone land, and make sure I was questioned 50,000 times around that country. 50,000 times. So who's crazy to give to one of the commissioners, the mayor of 100,000 kunas for about 10 ha of land that's worth as much? Who's crazy? And it's a 20-year lease. Ministers understand yourself finally and start working in the interest of Croatian agriculture together with the deputy and the entire ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29648	Thank you very much. My colleague, you're obviously a psychic. You know everything in advance who's going to do it. Thank you very much. It's Ante Babic's turn. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate on this wheel. And it's Shimo Djurdjevic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29649	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As soon as I heard about the announcement of the Law on Agricultural Land, I went to the field with people who deal with it, with associations, and I can say that those people who work directly on agricultural land, and those who are members of these associations do not support this law. That's what the peasants of Brod-Posavina County, ministers of where you and I come from, say. But I would say Mr. Minister and you, and we here too if we're responsible people, and we are, in this case we shouldn't be wrong, we shouldn't pass a bad law that wouldn't benefit Croatian farmers. Because everything that has been done for agriculture in recent years when it comes to capital investments in agriculture, in machinery, connected machinery, the return of capital investments to multi-annual plantations, etc. The support of... cultures was paid by Croatian citizens for reasons for the Croatian farmer, the Croatian farmer, to be competitive with his production in the EU and I know how to say the EU market on this raw one. The revenues of the counties that were from the agricultural land are when it comes to at least my county's return when it comes to support, for example. The Ship-Posavia County gives them 23 subsidies on agriculture. And now that income is losing. We did not attack more vigorously, aggressively when it comes to the measurements of agricultural land because colleagues and colleagues without measure of the same agricultural land have none of the forms of availability that our municipalities and our cities have brought over the past period regardless of the concession, sale or multi-annual lease. Farmers from the field also have an observation on why these competitions that were in the nearness stage by coming to the coalition and Minister Jakovina to the Ministry of Agriculture are why they were hitched? Those who were implemented by law and who had no objections should have brought people into possession and, of course, be able to process the land they received legally in the competition. The rounding of agricultural land also went my way during and that it was good in the previous period, but putting into the same range of OPGs and trades in agriculture with companies etc. for me and for the thinking of Croatian farmers is not good. What else do we have any objections to, or I have an observation, is too many regulations that the minister will later adopt. I think this law has been there since this morning to protect large ones, and believe me in these 20 years of Croatia's country, Croatia's agriculture survival is most endangered by that small farmer who has 3 to 10 hectares of land. And I think that by law on agricultural land and other laws we have to help him because the Slavonian village, and I believe that in other parts of Croatia every year is getting older and older and people are moving out of Croatian villages. I think we should go to the second reading so we can fix everything we think would be good. which is not good in this bill, and I think it's a good thing that you've proposed to the ministers in two readings of this law, and don't take away a whole day's debate that I believe will continue tomorrow to include all those good proposals in another reading in order for our farmers to pass one good law. But I say we have no right to be wrong because all that has been invested so far, which is billions of kuna in Croatia in agriculture, will be invested in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29650	Thank you very much. Vladimir Bilek has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29651	Dear fellow I do not know who informed you about the tenders that they were stopped which is not true, all those tenders that took place in the procedure before 1.01.2012, i.e. by 31.12.2011 were carried out. ... Yes, farmers were also made where there were no problems and where it does not stand on the State's Attorney's Office they entered the property and work there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29652	Replication response, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29653	Well, I'm sorry. An esteemed colleague very briefly. Here, and I come from Brod-Posavia County and the minister, it's not done. Here I can count on my field, I don't know on yours, in three, four municipalities isn't done. an example of Gundicans, etc. That's why I emphasized it in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29654	Thank you very much. It is up to Stjepan Milinkovic, who is also gone and loses the right to debate on this point. Now we're gonna stop the debate. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9.30. The first is counterpart Josip Djakic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29655	Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs. We continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and continue the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, PZ No. 251. A ten-minute debate is on the way, and now a respected representative, Josip Djakic, is on his way. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29656	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Agricultural Land Act, which was planned in two readings, and which, as the minister says, tends to put all the land in a function that has not been operational so far. I would even welcome it if it were indeed the purpose and intention of this law, but since we are aware of the fact that on January 12, 2012, Minister Jakovina forwarded it to all municipalities and cities, i.e. for local self-government units, a guide to the implementation of certain provisions of the Law on Agricultural Land relating to the lease, the sale of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. With this guidance, the unit of local self-government, municipalities and cities is required to suspend all activities in connection with the implementation of the provisions of the Agricultural Land Act relating to the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia through leases and sales on the basis of the Agricultural Land Availability Programme in its territory. Here's 13 months later, we're passing a law, a new law, we've suspended all the activities that the municipalities and cities have started, except for those like you say 70 that haven't even brought in a program of availability. And I agree, for these necessityes, it was necessary for the county to intervene given the possibility in the law that they would also bring in a programme of availability, call out competitions, carry out all the jobs, and agree that perhaps a part of this could be true, I would say, of a caucus law that is passed without the right criteria. We clearly have everything listed in the proposal for this law, but we don't have an O.P.G. I.E.P.G. Agricultural economies that have certainly been set up so far have developed, which have surrounded the land with something by purchase, something by lease, something by concession, and an agency that has in law had the possibility that agricultural land sold cannot be sold without offering first to the agency, i.e. First-time law had an agency. That is how it was to remain so that security in the development of agricultural economies would be as good and as quality as possible. The evaluation and the criteria that are now being put forward are unclear about what will happen and what assessments in these 60 points of 100 will be given for individual cases. What will happen when one big producer who has 100 tractors, who has a thousand employees, comes to the competition, how you will estimate with how many points of 60 of his offer. How you're going to evaluate the offer of the domestic population that you've been dealing with agriculture so far, how many points you're predicting for them. It's unclear in this law. Other things defined in Article 5i of Article 6 are unclear and will ultimately be decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on their assessment. So these possible 60 points which should be an integral part of what the economic programme contains, and the economic programme should contain data on the applicant of the offer, a description of the economy, indicators of the previous period, the purpose of land use and locality, the technological and technical characteristics of economic work and information on the necessary land processing mechanism that is the subject of the lease, investment and employment, the expected financial... production, the demonstration of expected costs and revenues, the specific indication when it comes to organic production and the specific conditions of nature protection established by the central body of the State Administration responsible for the business of nature protection, where agricultural land is located within the protected area. Here is Article 5, what is needed in the offer, in the description of the economy which submits its application for a tender or firm. The company has capacities that absolutely no farmer can reach, and it will certainly make the best economic programme with its professional staff available. They'll put in the best offer, give the best price or twice as much as they can from the start, and they'll certainly offer the highest number of employees. If you have defined here how many points employment carries, how many points the OPG carries from the area of the municipality or city in which the competition is being held, that these are priorities that would go to the hands of so far, they have been mentioned so far, but we do not know how they will be evaluated in these 60 points. Similarly, in all the indicators that speak about what and how, these will... significantly gather competitors to produce an economic programme, produce and obtain all data on current business, the ratio of the number of conditional throats, so let's say that whoever has a small farm with 25 throats can certainly not be in the same example as whoever has 100 throats. Some of the colleagues from the HNS, the SDP, spoke about it as well as from other parties who clearly said that they did not find a foothold to be a fair competitive form when there are no real definitions of how a given category is being pricked. Number of employees. Well, of course, in a firm where there are 50, 100, 300, 500 or 1000 employees, you can't be the same as the one who has five family members on 50 ha of land. This law puts aside the strengths and plans and programmes of municipalities and cities that have defined the reasonable possibility and size to which a competitor can rent land. So let's say that the smaller municipality with smaller land is up to 30 ha, with a little larger than 50 in the big Slavonic area where the vast spaces of agriculture are 100 or 200 ha. And that's what I think was fair for those municipalities. Now these criteria are gone. There are no such criteria, and there is no possibility that the land plot bordering you should be purchased if it is less than the land you now own. Either it's possible if someone changes the catastrian plan or the community plan or the county plan will wipe out some road, so they won't be able to access that land anymore, and that land will belong to the one they have. These are all the tricks that were left in this Act as inexplicable and will certainly allow those who will decide, which are two members of the Agency and one of the local self-government for which we also do not know by which criteria they will be appointed. The biggest question of all is how do you think the agency with 20, 30, 50 or even 100 employees will replace all those machines that have worked, and especially the Department of Agriculture and Economy in municipalities and cities, along with all its employees, to produce tender documentation. You want to take over from the municipalities all the information documentation so that she can be in the agency. Question who will give you, who won't give you. The question of why they would give you and why in this law once again puts a burden on the local self-government that absolutely does not comply with the alliance of municipalities and cities. I think this is how you made it clear when you broke off all the farm land rentals, and you continued to use the same law in concessions. So at the 11th month you open a tender, in the 11th month of 2012, you open a concession tender, and in this competition, companies have a priority. Yeah, they have legal entities. It is clear that you only use the competition there when you raise those who, as lobbyists, employ both land and time. Those who waited 13 months for your decisions certainly had enough to write both haste and instructions and supplements and all that was needed in the past and have not yet had land at their disposal. In view of all this I have said, this Law is pure centralization, the passing of large ones, the destruction of small ones, and of 50,000 OPGs will remain 5,000 large entrepreneurs, farmers, lobbyists, calculators who will take the Croatian country and thus impoverish Croatian peasants. He will again be a possible worker on their large farms, and everything else will be without land because the country of the peasant does not need it. We peasants are afraid again because a rich peasant is a rich country, and in this example we cannot see that we are in the interest of peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29657	Thank you very much. First of all, the respected representative Ante Boric cannot discuss this issue, Babic, cannot discuss this issue because he was not present when he was called for a basic debate yesterday in accordance with Article 213 or Article 211. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament loses the right to discuss a subject for which he was not present when he was called. It is now up to the replica of the respected representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29658	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Djakic, you did well to notice this particular part of the score. We talked a lot about it yesterday, but the rest is in the air, i.e. We didn't even get an answer from the minister whether it's fair for a system like this to hit where one criterion eliminates two and we have three criteria. It means that one overpowers the other two that can't possibly outrun the only one. I think that needs to be fixed because what's a contest or a fight for some price when the price by these criteria is practically nothing. It would be fair to cut these 60 points by those peaceful owners to 40, so that we have a 40:40:20 ratio, so that they all have equal chances, and to reduce the space of manipulation where the economic programme would then be evaluated, but the price and the peaceful property would give such a chance to overcome those 60 that in the beginning are already creating a space of manipulation. I think it's something the minister should think about and say that these little ones you spoke of would come at least as much into the same chance, especially because they already have their own economic programme or some kind of investment program. They're already working and they're in possession and they want to continue. In this way, it allows everyone else to compete, and then the agency where most people have two people from, let's say on the state side and one from the local manipulative and create an unequal relationship. That relationship can be and 40 I don't know about the price, 20 for peaceful property, 40 for the economic programme. But in this form, as he now stands, he is simply unequal and in the beginning he creates great differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29659	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29660	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So that the evaluation table of the economic programme was created with all these segments that were listed in it, then clearly farmers would know what they were on. If there were a table from which you could see what is estimated and how many points then you could say that there are no occult games, there are no raises of large and manipulators. If the OPGs were in first place strictly involved in the activity and are in the register and who, at least two years from the start of their work, were in the incentive system and in the register system, would then say that we cared about these people. This is how we put it on the wind. If we had put on a local self-government or had put on how it would be elected, would it be the mayor who is directly elected or the mayor of the municipality who is directly elected member of that commission so they would know that these are people who are truly supported by citizens and who will be in the Commission for determining who the land belongs to. This is how we don't know. We don't even know about these criteria, we don't have a plate, and we absolutely doubt the sincere intentions that farmers are protected with this. I will say that this table that our municipalities have worked on is certainly a plate that is adequate for the needs of our village, to retain rural space in function, to retain our peasants and to maintain the reputation of the village. All of these other things are unknowns that certainly through all the debates that have been conducted talk about going to put land in the function of those greatest and richest. We can't say otherwise, Mr. Minister and I would ask you to put in a clear table after this first reading of how much you will value what we will know in the second reading and how we choose which one will be in front of the agency, which is in front of the local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29661	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Djakic, you have certainly located this well, as in yesterday's debates, has often been said that the system of points and this bill was created and complex conceptually for others. So this is actually about two different approaches. The law so far has access to simply allowing small farmers to be the ones who will primarily be able to compete for state agricultural land, preserve their economies, their jobs, their families, to be masters on their own and beyond and after this part of turning state-owned into private or renting state-owned land where also by decentralising power allows local self-government to decide and prepare all documents. And this current law, which goes in the other direction, goes counter to small agricultural producers, goes into large systems, allows them to take over the state agricultural land and thus choke the small ones. And also, in the direction of centralisation where local self-government is so excluded except, of course, in the part where the job is to be prepared so that a committee of three members can decide. And it is absolutely necessary and necessary in this law that you have said to change the way you score and thus allow everyone and the young to compete evenly, or even to give them points that they will not say some easy advantage but that they are not neglected at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29663	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's clear from these legal provisions, we can't figure out how small can compete. 60 points for an economic programme in which the hill is all congregated all that has been so far has no priority, which is first, second, which is the highest score, which is the smallest score. That's what we're worried about. This really makes us uncomfortable because it is left in Article 7 that the way in which the economic programme is evaluated in terms of the value and weight of a single component is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe on a proposal from the minister or those from the agency. So, cadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. How will they put these 60 points together in the economic evaluation programme? That'll be interesting to see. It remains a matter of reluctance to really raise doubts, why don't we make a table of values of these mentioned needs that are in the economic programme to make it clear to everyone what I can hope for and what I can't do? If those values were on the biggest ones' side again, we'd cut them down so they can't cross 40% like one of their colleagues said. We will either put value on the price or on the domestic population or on those former tenants who are the whole family employed. We have to think about the team because you're going to be out of a job in this difficult time. We suspect that within the next year, the agency may, as we have seen before, have not revived or in this year, that any hectare of land will be awarded a tender and complete its grant in concession or lease.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29665	Thank you very much. We're going to the next debate. We're calling upon the esteemed representative Drazen Pandeck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29666	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is written with the aim of improving the obvious availability of agricultural land, primarily those owned by the state. I would support solutions under this law that are aimed at better and more efficient availability for these land, which I would say are going towards increasing the total agricultural production and preventing malfeasance in the lease of state-owned agricultural land, which, unfortunately, has been almost universally known. It seems to me that this law is a good basis for any, in such an area, things to be fixed. However, as I come from part of the rural part of Zagreb Councils, in which there are not too many large areas owned by the state, it would primarily refer to the problem of agricultural land production in private ownership. Once the agricultural area whose main feature was the farmed fields, the spacious vineyards are now quite derelict. The fields have grown, the vineyards are mostly torn apart, the forest has little to take over from former meadows, oranices and vineyards. That's unfortunately what we've been witnessing in the last ten years, especially in the last ten years. It is true that this area was about an equivalent agriculture that was to be killed inefficient and which, from an economic, purely economic point of view, was unwise to encourage. However, certain agricultural production in the area still existed and possible, I am thinking of a certain form and renewing. We have opportunities to look at images, for example from Austria and Switzerland, where cows feed to the city streets themselves, and almost all pastures can serve as a model for dairy ads. It's not mostly state-owned land, it's private property. So that's where they were able to find a certain fashion. The model, I think, must obviously be in the rounding area, because clearly neither such nor the pasture form of holding, for example cattle can take place on small surfaces. Therefore, in relation to agricultural land owned by private persons, the provisions of Article 4 of the Law, which imposes an obligation on the maintenance of land suitable for agricultural production, and therefore prevent certain penalties if the owners of such land do not comply with the obligations laid down in the law. Although it is therefore a good law intensities, it wants to encourage owners of such small-scale land to bring in agricultural production as well, and it seems to me that regulation in the area may in some ways extend. The real situation is that many, especially natural persons will not, will not farm land because it is simply not worth it. Production is often more expensive than the output it will get. Now, according to the current state of affairs, it is therefore prescribed that the state should react to inspection and punishment. From what I see on the ground, penalties will need to be shared by thousands and thousands of owners, and this seems realistically difficult to implement, and even perhaps unfair to those owners of small, small areas. Therefore, it should be concluded that agricultural production on smaller surfaces is often economically invaluable, which is due to the organisation of production, due to part of the morphological properties of the soil that should be processed. In addition, large producers of course also receive incentives that make their products cheaper than those they can, which can therefore be offered by owners of smaller parcels if they engage in agricultural production. Therefore, it seems to me, and what this law does in part in this area, therefore, that it encourages the owners of smaller parcels to lease such land in order to round up properties and create conditions for more profitable production. But if there is even the goodwill of the owner of such land to land, for example. Rent and at some symbolic price, and I often see it on the ground that some owners would like their land that they don't process, which is abandoned and simply don't know what to do with it, would want to rent it but the interested often does not. And such owners might find themselves in a situation where they have to pay the fine, and they actually want to do what law enforcement is. Therefore, I find it a good solution to prescribe that such persons will not be punished and that they offer their land for rent. In this way, I think that we would encourage the circulation of land because it is possible, and we would not, I would say, in a certain difficult situation and owners of such land and state bodies. In order to avoid abuse, it would be desirable to prescribe a certain system of aid and land rental monitoring, as it considers likely to be the task of the body of local self-government. Compared to the previous law, I welcome the intensity that land sales are allowed only exceptionally. I think that intensity should certainly be commended and particularly highlighted. The land is a limited resource, regardless of how often we treat it as not particularly valuable, and its surface in Croatia is naturally unrenewable, there is as much as there is and no new one can be created. It is therefore a good solution to allow for the sale of land only exceptionally, which is a good paper introduced by this law, but even the provision of Article 50(1) under the point and further tightened, for example by the condition that the sale of State-owned agricultural land can be achieved only if the Agency assesses that it will contribute to an increase in agricultural production on that parcel, or if the buyer attaches an appropriate programme or to limit the land area that can be sold. Compared to the re-use of agricultural land, as I had the opportunity to work on the charges for the re-use of agricultural land, I would suggest several solutions that I find constructive. Thus, in Article 21, I think it is good to specify that the investor's fee is a liability, and to define the correct, precise moment of re-use. This, in its opinion, should be defined as the moment when the implementation of a solution approving the operation by receiving the confirmation of the main project, i.e. when the time limit for appeal is due for the solution of the executed state. I say this because in practice it has often occurred that the change in investors occurs later, even a few years after the issue, for example. the original solution that led to the uncertainty of who killed the payer, including the difficulty of charging through the performance. Given, further, given that the deadline is now, to resolve the matter of re-use we have a certain concern that a large number of cases may arise simply not be solved within the scheduled time limit. In view of the specific time limit, the time necessary for the collection of documents, the determination of the factual situation, would therefore be my recommendation to align the time limit for that solution as prescribed in Article 101(2). The General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. 60 days. The following proposal shall be made in Article 23(4) of Article 24. Article 4 In order to trip certain legal purity of the word or the city of Zagreb, they delete as unnecessary, given the structure of the city of Zagreb, both as a city and as a county. In addition, as regards the exemption of compensation in previous rulings of previous laws, the defenders were scheduled to be exempt from payment of compensation and Article 62. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families was therefore also prescribed that this release. Therefore, in order to include the application of the law, I would continue to propose that this right of Croatian defenders remain in the law. The previous law also prescribed that the investor would be free from payment of compensation if he builds for his own housing needs. Now, the solution to free all investors up to four hundred squares seems to me to be a good way to keep the solution going because the income generated under the previous provisions of the law might be bigger, so maybe there could be a decrease in revenue here. So to keep that solution free of investors when they are building to resolve their own housing issue and that this right can only be achieved once. The following is a suggestion of purely pragmatic nature. It refers to determining the categorisation of agricultural land. ... it does not provide for the categorisation of agricultural land of that p1,p2 and here, respecting that fact, it seems to me that it would be appropriate in particular to regulate this situation and by law to explicitly determine, if it is not possible to determine whether a certain plot of p1 and p2 is based on a cartographic display in spatial documentation, that in this case it is not considered p1 or p2 and completed or transitional and final provisions, I would suggest that the completion of the administrative procedures for the fixing of the compensation for the re-use of agricultural land under the provisions of the law which was in force at the time of the initiation of that procedure be laid down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is to avoid real uncertainty, misunderstandings in interpreting different provisions in this new and past law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29667	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You spoke of the law, and you greet him. Although you can see for yourself that there are things that are not in line with the needs of our agricultural economies, but there are also those that are alluding to the possibility of crime and corruption, which is sold by direct contract. There you can't say that there shouldn't be certain criteria precisely defined when and to whom a direct contract can be sold. It was also necessary to put in agreement with the State's Attorney's Office as it was now, with the assessment of the Tax Administration at the middle of some of the values that have recently been taught as it has been. So far, the criteria have been different in all these land sales and now they're suddenly different. The agency knows everything at once. They don't need anyone's consent anymore. They don't need anyone's data anymore. If the tax administration records all land sales contracts in one area, it is certainly not the same land agricultural in Slavonia as in Dalmatia. The difference is heaven and earth. Therefore, there must be a number of things in these legal provisions to be done in order to be transparent for all our OPGs so far so that they do not destroy what has been created even though it is hard for a peasant now because of all the difficulties that follow him and through the recession crisis, because of the failure to pay off the timely incentives, due to the reduction of prices, milk and products of some. Some have grown, some have fallen, but the peasant is in a difficult situation and we fear that the village will not be ruined.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29669	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29670	So the denials of your replica to kill that the intensity of this law is to limit the sale of agricultural land to state property as much as possible. It's an emergency law and only exceptions are prescribed. So it can be extremely sold at certain times. That's why it's a certain dam. When there's something to be said, it's already a defense of what's been done so far. I myself have suggested certain additions to that law. Of course, this is the first reading, and it is certain that this intensity can continue to be strengthened and improved by certain adjustments. So I don't think this concern is justified. And so far, these provisions, as stated here in Article 50 and point, represent the dam of arbitrary availability and uncontrollable sale of the state country. And I believe that even with additional obstacles and brakes, that law will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29671	Thank you, too. Next replica, honourable representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29672	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague is not an intrinsic, it is not the basic nature of this law to prevent the sale of land. The basic intensity of this law is to eliminate family farms from being able to bear and process the country. Even with a saying, they're removed from the law. Article 29 no longer refers to family farms but to natural and legal persons. And that's the main problem with the problem of going to centralization of the decision on who the country will be leased. On the one hand, they move, which makes it difficult for the family's agricultural economy to get it because they have no chance in competition with the big ones. The intensity of this law is that it pleases the great and that is clear and loud. On the other hand, the centralised highly centralised decision-making method to be leased to as it was yesterday was and then it was said to undermine the role of local self-government units. and when you have the fact that in Article 44, paragraph 2, when we warned about taking 20% of the funds from the counties, see how unfair the other counties are now placed in relation to the City of Zagreb. This item 2 leaves the City of Zagreb, which is a unit of local self-government but in the status of the county, leaves them with funds and all other counties you have taken. So much for the equal relationship of these authorities compared to all other counties compared to the City of Zagreb. If that applies to everything, then you have to refer to everything or leave it to everyone. And that's why we urge you to consider until the second reading of the division... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29673	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29674	Thank you. The intensity of this law, therefore, to increase the efficiency of production on agricultural land owned by the state, must be of interest to all of us, so that it is used as much as possible to get as much agricultural production as possible, and not to deprive anyone. What is now stated in the law is that they are legal and physical persons, including the OPG are legal and physical persons. I think it's an unwarranted mistrust in the O.P.G. that they won't be able to make a good economic programme. I'm sure there's an O.P.G. that can do it. I'm a child and it's kind of romantic for me to imagine a family economy where there were a couple of cows, in which it all looked idyllic and beautiful, but unfortunately reality is different. I was in Poland a week ago, after they entered the EU and adapted to the rules that apply there, they flooded with, say, their milk Germany and worse, Belarus and Russia. When we go sit down at some poker table we can't tell we're gonna play some kid's game Black Jack or the week. We have to simply adapt to the rules that apply in Europe because we're going in there. And as for the intensities that now the agency determines it, I think it would be high time to put an end to certain irregularities, to put an end to some local sheriffs. I'm not saying it would be everywhere, but it's the kind of situation that would be if someone like some big Baja came and I gave you land, according to some personal criteria to grandma and uncles. With this solution, it's been docking so far. And the City of Zagreb is determined, has a position determined by the Law on the City of Zagreb, we adopted it here in the Parliament. He has the position of the county and the bodies of local self-government. Many in the city of Zagreb would like this to change and the councils and urban districts to get, say, the status of units of local self-government. In these counties, we have local bodies. Self-government that will receive these funds. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29675	Thank you very much. Time's up. It is up to the honourable representative Mario Moharić and the debate for 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29676	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law can certainly be subject to reform laws because it brings important newspapers, it is very different from the former law and it improves in any case the availability of state agricultural land. I will concentrate on two important newspapers in this law that differ from land legislation in the past 10 years. So, first of all, the sale of state land is no longer permitted, which was made possible by the 2002 land privatisation regulation, which was the HSS project headed by the then Minister of Agriculture Pankertic. Other newspapers, too, will make land available to the land decisions by the Land Agency rather than more cities and municipalities in which the land was located. Why is this significant? Privatisation of state land or better said sale of state land has always been against such a model of state land management, it has always been better to give land in a long-term lease or concession. Through this model of self-determined individuals at ridiculously low prices, the greatest state wealth has been sold. In 1996, the Parliament adopted the first strategy in the development of agriculture where it set the average agricultural land price of 10 thousand German marks or today if we translate 37 thousand kunas. In Međimurje, the average price of today's agricultural land is 2 euros per CHV or in kunas is about 42,000 kuna per hectare. The price the chosen ones paid for state land is more than the average set by the Parliament. At this so low price of land in Slavonia, on average about 3 thousand 500 kuna per hectare, individuals received a 15-year payment. I'm just going to give an example of how it has to do with the state land of the Netherlands. The state owns agricultural land on polders, but it doesn't sell either. For example. The western Polder in the Netherlands was inhabited in the early 1950s by the state rounding up where one owner gets 50 hectares in a piece, and the long-term lease gets the best Dutch farmers within 40 years and this is determined according to the production results, and as shown by the registered and paid income and profit tax. After the farmer meets the conditions for retirement, the new contract is given by the state to its children, starting from the oldest to the younger. If no child wants to deal with agricultural production, for example, schools that are not in agricultural calling have completed, the country offers the entire property to a new farmer. The 2002 State Land Privatisation Project was a strategy for HSS under the slogan to give Croatian land to Croatian peasants in order to prevent foreigners from buying our state agricultural land when we enter the European Union. It will be interesting to see after Croatia's full membership in the European Union of those privileged farmers who have had the chance, who have been given the opportunity under privileged conditions to buy such land, how many of them will remain on these land, and how many will be sold to foreigners at multiple prices. Real land management instead of municipalities and cities therefore now has a land agency. The project to bring down decision-making rights from county level to municipalities and cities has proved to be a complete failure because decisions on the distribution of state land to new owners were neither objective nor objective but were mostly owned by persons in close contact with leaders in local administration and self-government. Of course, there are some exceptions. We have also heard here in the Assembly from some mayors and mayors, and my municipality, the Municipality of Goric is an example where it was implemented without any problems and without any complaints. 400 hectares are given on two occasions where the price is even too high compared to the prices that are today in Slavonia. Furthermore, the 2002 State Land Privatisation Regulation provides for the upper limit of the offered rent or purchase of land, which is the case now. Experience from Međimurje County between 1994 and 2000 shows that quality land better agricultural producers are willing to pay more. The then county commission visited all agricultural producers who applied to tender for the lease of agricultural land. On the property itself she became convinced of the production capacity of the economy, the distance of the economy from the land plot, and the lease offers were the subject of competition, one of the essential factors for the decision to which the state-owned country was assigned in a multi-annual lease. So today we have the case that the economies that in Međimurje leased land during that period paid an annual lease of 1500 to 1600 kuna per hectare, and for example the former president of the Community Association of Peasants Slavonia and Baranja since the leased state land at an average price of 600 to 800 kuna no longer even publicly comes forward for the purpose of protecting peasant rights. And as far as the economic programme is concerned, it must be an important criterion for granting the right to rent agricultural land. I thought that I would also say some criticism about the economic programme, but in the debate, the minister cited what the economic programme includes and what the guidelines would be in the design of the programme, and these are the elements of fairness that are important in determining which state land is assigned to, given that it gets these 60 points. And in this economic programme as we heard it will also be covered by the production volume visible from the list of basic assets, the distance from the economy from land, the amount of income, profits and taxes paid from agricultural activity in the last three years and the height of the naturally offered lease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29677	Thank you very much. We've got reports of replicas on your exhibit, so let's get in line. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29678	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Moharic, you said in the opening section that the sale of state land is no longer permitted. Article 50(1) reads: Agricultural land owned by the State can be exceptionally sold by direct contract at the market price established by the Agency, and then cited cases. So that's not true, because so far we've had sales cases in a way that we've had a public competition, and now we're introducing a direct contract institute. State land can be sold under this law and is not limited to how much it can be sold, and these two words "can exceptionally" open up a space of manipulation and the only arbitration officer is located at the Agricultural Land Agency. It will assess what can be extremely sold when the applicant submits a request. If he has a 20-hectare particle, he can buy a 19-hectare particle beside him, which will be cases. We do not know where these particles are, however, when we see the only dam of that, and that is in paragraph a) this last part of the item that says that it cannot be bought only if the particle is no larger than that of its. Then there's really a question of what we're talking about here these days when we know that every particle of the state at some point is bordering somewhere with a private particle in at least one part of it. If so, any State particle or any agricultural land may be sold by direct contract and the Ministry must standardise it in Article 50 to the second reading otherwise space will be opened for manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29679	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29680	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, you said it was an unacceptable sale of agricultural land, and that really makes it possible to sell space to foreigners and disbursement of state wealth. In fact, I would disagree because a long-term lease of 50 years is a good form for me, but a sale with limitations, restrictions that would be possible so far, which is that the first purchase right in the case of alienation has an Agency for the availability of agricultural land and cannot be sold to anyone other than it, such state land purchased at the tender. I think it's quite a satisfactory form of law that would certainly ensure a stable and secure future for every farmer to remain young in the country, schooling in agricultural interests and long-term planning of our farmer. This is how all the suspense is. When the owner of the OPG or a natural and legal person dies of transfer to his successors, further lease remains, remains in further lease or repeat competitions are all terribly questionable and creates one uncertainty that certainly will not lead to the promotion of the Croatian village.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29681	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29682	Thank you. Dear colleague, when you're trying to say it, you're flaunting some arguments and not thinking about their consequences. So you're saying that this law now passed by the SDP government, the Kukuriku government wants to correct something that wasn't good and you forget, you're talking about selling land, and you forget that this Land Sales Act was passed by the SDP Government of Ivica Racan is then at the political request of the HSS, which was then your political partner on 11 July 2001, passed the Agricultural Land Act which allowed the sale of this which you are now criticizing. And now that you've allowed it, first of all, your law has allowed the abuses that have been made now that you as a messiah appear to correct someone else's mistakes. It wasn't the HDZ government's fault. That law was passed by you. I'm not defending HDZ. I'm just finding out by fact. And then be consistent and say we're correcting our own mistakes, not someone else's mistakes. And besides, it's nothing out of the ordinary. You do everything you write differently, and you never wrote what you do. You have, so please take care of it when you're trying to make an argument. Now you're blaming the HSS. Then you were fine when he was your partner, and now that he's turned his back on you, you'll be the trees and stones on him. This is all you've cooked up. That should be made clear and loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29683	Thank you very much. We'll go to another replica, the Đurjica Sumrak, and the next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29684	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Mohoric, you said this is certainly a law that will implement reforms or reform. This is certainly not the law, nor the bill, regardless of what it is in the first reading. Of course, it is a reform law, for example, that we would not wait 14 months to see it for the first time in our first reading. Because of course we know that you know all the irregularities were, so you could have done this law before you came to power and offered us some good solutions, fixed what you did back in 2001 and said here's the bill. However, the first thing you did was that the minister had singled out a single law of a Croatian state and declared a veto on that law before that. You've introduced the centralization of your colleagues, no matter what you've advocated, but the Kukuriku coalition that there will be no centralised. But there's a colleague of centralization, because here's really those three members we've been talking about all day yesterday, they decide everything. They are what God and the beating are said, so as they decide, so it shall be so. The reform of this law really requires a lot of change, a lot of changes, especially in this programme. Equal to those 60 points that should be distributed differently. There's all some here that seem to me like a 21-story shop plan. We have some articles, but we don't know what it's really about. I guess when you adopt him, we'll finally find out. And so will our same farmers who won't be able to report their incentives, because this law will not be passed by five months. They will not be able to process their country and will not be able to win support by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29685	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mario Moharic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29686	And here's my colleague I'm about to tell you that this is reform law, and why is this reform law necessary? So you know well that today the state owns 890000 ha of land, and that you managed to lease only 270000 ha in your term, and that says enough that it takes a big turn over that old law to put state agricultural land in office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29687	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29688	It may be reform law, but ever since I was born I've been constantly in some reforms and let's not declare something reform that isn't reform. But I want to look back on this, here's a colleague who said some local fairy tale, local sheriff, etc. All those who are local self-government must also know that, on the basis of a programme available to agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture is agreeing to open a tender. The competition is carried out by the commission. in the commission, the chairman of the committee is a member of the SDP. After that, the city council's decision, so not the local sheriff, the mayor, goes to the ministry for consent. Unfortunately, the ministry does it so quickly and so quickly, that sometimes it stands for two years regardless of objections. After that, if the ministry issues agreement then the local self-government leader signs off on whether it is an OPG, a legal or a natural person, signs the contract. The contract gives its consent to the State's Attorney's Office. So how come some local dude, the local sheriff could have assigned a country, how? You see, this law will allow this to happen where it will not be a local fairy tale but rather a clerk whose task will be primarily to fulfil the wishes of the employer, so those who are in power, will have to implement it without criteria, without a clear vision, without the development of agriculture sign one such contract. And this law completely rules out local self-government, which is the saddest thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29689	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29690	Here's a esteemed colleague and you and I were witnesses, maybe not local stories, but there was a protest and there was no more than one or a few in your neighborhood of Slavonia right at the division of state agricultural land. The results of that old law that you probably defend when you attack so much of this new one are exactly who I said it was. Of the 890,000 hectares in the lease, 270 thousand hectares have been placed under the current law today. Of 890 270 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29691	Thank you. Please, you're not in private function here. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29692	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You are actually proof that that law was passed in 2001 by the SDP government in a coalition with HSS, the HSLS I do not know was good because you said that you in Gorican successfully solved 400 hectares of the country. Which means that you have done this excellently and that you have proved that this law is enforceable and that it is in favour of ordinary little peasants who, of course, the HSS will never give up as well as the decentralisation of the state to local self-government. You say there were low land prices, that it was not well estimated, that it should be seen in the regions. I agree. You say that economic programs are the ones that are very important, we hear it here all the time. Yeah, and you know what's gonna be more important? A quick reading course for those who will evaluate economic programs. How long will it take a minute to read the page so we can evaluate it? Who's it gonna be? You tell your colleague Vinkovic there was a protest, what do you think God didn't give them now won't be like this? We're making a conceptual distinction in this section. You're going towards the big one at the expense of the little ones. You're heading towards centralization to the damage to decentralisation. And there's a fundamental difference. So thank you for saying that the law we brought together was good, that you had successfully spent it in the Municipality of Gorican.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29693	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29694	Here is colleague Hrg that we successfully spent it in the Municipality of Gorica or Mr Vinkovic in the city of Djakov and a few more examples does not speak and is not sufficient argument that this law is good. It's precisely because of the result that says how much total state land has been put into operation through the lease, and not to mention the sale, it's fortunate. Only 62,000 were sold to the chosen. It's not enough argument to say that the law was good. It should be amended and this new law will certainly be reformable precisely because it will bring results and put faster agricultural land into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29695	Thank you very much. Next debate and respected representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29696	Well, thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen. I've been here all day yesterday and I've been listening to almost all the arguments and all the replicas, so here we are today, here's what I haven't heard Mr.... but I haven't heard of it, although I was hoping that maybe this is my colleague by function from the Crosses Mr. Hrg will say and express a habitual regret that there are no representatives of the OPG and even in this Assembly because we heard the data that is almost 300 thousand people in Croatia related to the OPG. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I would like to hear representatives and in such a rich debate. I can say that yesterday's Light Motive to say that it was a state of agriculture that was unsustainable, such assessments fell, that it was a decline of the small economy, of the agricultural economy, that the guessing of large capital, etc., etc. First of all, these first two points, believe me, I've been listening for 40 years, and I have so much work experience for you. The discussions were conducted in a similar system, and now in this system. Also, there were tears shed yesterday, so to speak, crocodiles on the fate of the OPG and 300 thousand of these people. And it's actually true somewhere else that I'm kind of paraphrasing the Great Cross. That they wanted to get rid of it, that they wanted to protect themselves first of all, because yesterday there were words and I think Mrs. Sumrak was saying and let's not be ashamed of the words of a peasant if we're not peasant sons, at least we're grandchildren. I agree with you here, but there were tears in the fate of that peasant and member, and generally the O.P.G., but the truth is really somewhere else, it could have been solved. I'm sorry there's no former Minister Cobankovic, and now I've been able to tell him that in the lobby, among other things, he's a co-conspirator with everyone else, and here I mean, I have to be direct to both HSS and HDZ. Because you know, look back for 15 years and yesterday 15 laws, 13 laws, two crucial decisions, right? For the last 10 years, 10 of which is about what basic laws, which changes and supplements. If he wanted to get rid of this, he'd get rid of it. The former governments, politics, had there been political will, there would have been a solution both legally and anything else, and interests would have been met above all by the OPG, or those peasants, were not wanted, and promises were plowing. I'm a witness, and you're all witnesses of a lot of social homes, firehouses, their homes, when they say, "Oh, man, that's when the words fell again, we're going to carry out the agrarian reform of what Broz didn't spend, we're going to spend. Go with the plowers in the fields, it's yours, we'll make sure we assign it to you and collect the electoral body. But on the other hand there had to be concerns, sometimes justified, I will pray nicely about the capital, or as several times the capital was said here yesterday. And there's people that are true. On the one hand, you had great promises, 300 and more thousands of potential voters you shouldn't have let down, and you let them down, you let them down, and on the other hand you lagged between meeting these big capital needs. And there's a response to what the minister is talking about, in that lagging you solved about 30% of the program, the availability of state agricultural land. Of course we're talking about that segment of everyone, all those laws. There's a truth in there somewhere. I'm almost entirely sure that's even systematically planned and solved all these years. However, as far as the proposal for a new law is concerned, I have several, with such support that I will support this new Agricultural Land Act, I have several suggestions. I will immediately refer to Article 44 in particular paragraph 2 of this article, there have been a lot of words about decentralisation and bypassing this legislative proposal by regional self-government. I just think this proposal is good, because that means greater decentralisation, if the direct funds go to local self-government units, I think it's a quality higher, and I'll explain briefly why. Because I know that there were and there are regional self-government units where there have been constant abuses and overruns of funds. But isn't it fairer and fairer, fairer maybe a better word to come directly to local self-government units? Especially if the provisions of the old law remain, I say I know with confidence the units of local self-government that have larger agricultural areas have been cut off. And then if you still don't have a match for the government, which is usually that, because of the others re-ported and some other solutions at County level, we have another injustice more. For this reason, this proposal in Article 44 to share the funds on units of local self-government and resources, and the revenues of the state budget, I am the only one who adheres to the proposal to replace it, such as the words 50-50, so as not to be yalta-style, should be 70-30, of course, in favour of the units of local self-government, and I am not joking. And as far as paragraph 2 is concerned, I believe that it may also need to add or rework that item, or add a new item to which it would be prescribed, legislated by law, priorities, and then the guidance would only later elaborate. What are the priorities for local self-government units and priorities, i.e. the dedicated use of funds for local self-government units and for the ministry, i.e. it would be enough to add one additional, to say the item. Also, in Article 76, I believe that this period of 3 months given to units of local self-government, if they don't deliver all the documentation to the agency, then they lose their right to revenue, right? However, in practice, the practice is known to be that in the study of documentation, and probably documentation is required as it has been so far and in this strong correspondence, if you want from the forest administration, through the state geodetic administration, through the spatial planning service, etc. etc. It takes a lot more time and often months to pass, and then the local self-government unit is there in an uninvisible and unequal position, so I think that maybe one sentence might say this way: "If the local self-government unit does not supply evidence that they have requested documentation, etc. within this specified period, then to apply these proposed provisions which you have provided for in Article 76." I also refer to all those proposals and discussions to review the provisions of Article 30 again, and especially as regards the score, or that the economic programme does not stick to 60 points. I think it's enough to cut that number of points anyway, and leave a part of the points for the domicile population. What am I done for?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29697	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29698	I'm sorry to have interrupted you. Time's up. You've just begun to get into the heart of the problems of this law. I think you've still missed saying you're shutting down the local self-government unit from your decision-making. Because one member of that committee doesn't mean anything, and they won't have the right to vote unless they're going to play the ficus there, raise their hand for or against it. But if it were in regional self-government, I would say that I would not say malfeasance but the unintended use of those funds from agriculture, I don't think these exceptions can break the rules. Here I am even going to say that I like your proposal. Let it go 70% to local self-government because I believe that these 25% that would be taken from the county should compensate for the salaries of those who will have to read these economic programs, and it will not be able to do two or three people, but at least 500 of them have family economies. Let's leave 20% to the county and 10% can go to the state. A billion kuna for agriculture has been reduced anyway, so they won't even feel it in that part. As for the representatives of family economies, be assured that at least we HDSSB MPs from Slavonia that we have spoken to these representatives in every way and that they are greatly disappointed by this law not only by the failure to pay off the incentives and the announced protests. After all, at least I am known to always not organise them, but always go to give support as I was in Zagreb when special police arrested dairy producers. I've never seen a minister or a Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29699	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29700	Well, thank you for giving me a chance to answer something I may not have said before. But I don't agree with this last one. I don't think anyone can represent them well here either. And it's not enough just to go to them and just give them support. I don't think it can be a hoot, I don't. But another thing to go among them and give them accurate information. I believe that there would be different reactions if the two of us left, so after your speech, one thing, after my something else depends on how you prepared the terrain. As far as regional self-government is concerned, I continue to represent fairer decentralisation towards local self-government units. It is primarily about different numbers of hectares, different contributions from the local self-government unit and regional ones. Please understand how to interpret where the work was carried out, where other measures have been carried out and even the violent takeover of the land, right? Or there in units where there was no such thing and where we are now talking about the need to round up the land, but this injustice was not. If you want from World War II to this day, isn't it fairer that these units and age more funds and thus return to that part of the OPG peasants who have lost over all these years? I also take care of that when I advocate this decentralisation and this proposal, and that's why I didn't joke when I just asked here to discuss about 70%, and that way we're going to bridge this, all this stuff that was talked about here yesterday through those 17 measures and programs through the regional administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29701	Thank you very much. There'll be more chances. Second replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29702	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a really esteemed colleague of the Kovac. I must say that I agree with one piece here. But I must also say that you are wrong to say what my colleague Vinkovic has already said that there is no OPG representative here. They're here, but we don't see them. They've been following this law ever since he started playing out at all in some public debate. They studied it very well. They delivered their opinions on this law at press conferences and they are not good. It's how we talk here when we oppose a law like this. I don't know if you followed what Mr. Brlosic said as president of the agricultural chamber. Did you follow what Mr. Latin said as president of the Peasant Union? They wrote these remarks that I'm talking about here. These are their remarks. I asked them to write me what bothers them in this law. And what I'm saying is those are their attitudes. So let us not fool ourselves that they are not there; they are very present, and they are there. You said here that she was taking care of the little man under cover, caring about the big capital. And now we have a situation where there's no cover anymore, now we're legalizing big capital care, now we're legalizing it. And with all due respect, this should not be expected by a majority who is in this SDP Parliament and the Government, should not be expected to care about large capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29703	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29704	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Boris, I'm sorry that you're not fighting for the interests of your county and that you didn't give them support in your presentation and that the allocation of funds from agricultural land leases would remain in equal norms, so that they could further encourage all those branches of agricultural production that we've had so far. 17 programs that the county of Virovitičko-Podravska 16 as I heard Sisak-Moslavina, probably as much of Zagreb as from these funds collected from agricultural land rentals, went into these programmes and encouraged agricultural development, co-financed interest, worked a cadastrian measurement which we have not yet completed and which is still an emergency. I don't know where that's gonna come from now. We have to say those contracts we interrupt, the end, no more. We've ruled out the decision-making of local self-government units. 500 municipalities and cities broke up with their decision 13 months ago. Is this land 860 hectares perhaps that land waiting for 13 months with this decision by Minister Jakovina of 12 January 2012. And you said nicely you agreed only if you were listened to, clear criteria in the evaluation of the economic programme and the reduction of points. Yeah, without clear criteria, we can't be sure that they won't really get up to those who want to manipulate agricultural land, who want to put the OPGs out of power and out of competition. That's what we have to fight for together. If we had agreed to do so, I am sure that the HDZ Club and all of us MPs and the HSS would have had clearer criteria to support this law. This is how I believe that neither you nor I, regardless of your party discipline, I don't have to support it, and I won't support it, and you, because you're reasonable and you've talked about it, you certainly have the right path where it's wrong and what needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29705	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29706	Thank you very much. I just answered and I forgot to lift the plate when Mr. Hrg was talking. I had an answer to that, too. So here I thank you for these words and commendation in a certain way, but on the other hand of course I did not neglect or forget about Zagreb County. But when we talk about the interest of units of local self-government not to put them above the interests of the county, I don't know, but I know what I'm talking about and I think this is a fairer way of distribution of funds, fairer decentralisation, so I'm only talking about it with the fact that these won't talk about yesterday's fellow Vasic, I think that the county has other funds, original funds and can certainly accompany all these other programs. I'm even convinced that it won't go to the expense of quality, even the height of those funds. If I had contacted Mr. Horg, I'd have said that anyway, so please, I'm not against the O.P.G., either, I'm right for them. I always thought of it, I said it 10, 15 years ago only then was my voice not heard from Ivanic City and not even there, so why didn't you go with the proposal to assign because yesterday there was an uninterrupted talk about the assignment of the country. So why wasn't it a proposal from your ranks to assign the country to the peasants and the OPG under certain strict criteria. You know what would happen? Today we'd have half that country for sale, for rent, but for why we'd define ourselves, that would happen. I talked to a lot of these direct agricultural producers that used to be called. I'm over time again. An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29707	Thank you very much. There will be other opportunities for a respected colleague. The work was attended by a representative of Djurdzica Sumrak and her replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29708	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Kovacic, I can really say in most of your debate that I agree with the debate that you are saying that in that part of your heart. But I can't agree when you said that you didn't want to help that family farmer and that he didn't want to be helped. Well, I'm sure you know that the three biggest chapters were chapter 11, 12 and 13 in 2004 and were negotiated in a way that was congratulated by the other EU members, in particular, on the chapters for colleagues who do not know about agriculture, fisheries, food and phytosanitary supervision, in order to achieve this, we should have invested a lot in both the OPGs and the agriculture itself and show that we know and that we can and that we have potential. What's good, so we're going with the terribly small parcels of 2.7 was a hectare per economy, we've come also to a small 5.7. But there he was now expected to be able to do it in some way and round it up, as well. It may be one of the last stages, education has been passed. But believe me, and you know well, and the Minister knows the same thing that he's going to meet here no matter what the country is, but the land books and property that haven't been solved are not even solved. Well, that was, we know in some local administration units or in major cities, so I think people come, the country is assigned, when it goes to DORH there's no way there's still five owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29709	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29710	You spoke in 2004 and so on, and why we didn't before, why it was spent, and even for the first 10 years, I dare say, an independent state. There was a lot of talk about agriculture then and something was done, probably not enough, but then, you know what, then it's been spent almost 10 years, looking for an alibi and talking about systematic destruction of agriculture from socialism until then. And it's been 10 years, and that one came in 2004, and it should've been done before. Now this has already gone to some other regulations and now we're here in 2013, now they're worth some other rules and I'm asking nicely. I don't think the minister had anything else at his disposition but to bring about this law, and I'm sure after such a fruitful debate and all of our remarks and contributions that in the second reading he would come and change something. So I accept what you said, but it could have happened by then. There's probably, here's what I see of you, some of you agreeing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29711	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29712	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovačić, you commended in your presentation article 44 and the ratio listed here is 50-50, half state, half local self-government. This in theory looks good and better than now with the damage to the counties, but in practice something else will happen because this same article degrades this 30. You will in practice have an economic program that someone will write nicely, especially from these larger, stronger, more competitive companies, lots of beautiful desires. 50 years is it, 50 years is signed contract, needs to write all kinds of things and will offer for a plot of 10,000 squares, let's say 50,000 kuna, and you will have one small man who is not so eloquent, etc., who also wants to do it for 50 years and will offer 100 000 kuna for that plot. Whoever gets a proposal from this bill gets the big one, and you get 25000 less in your budget. That's what this is about. And if we don't fix this, then we open up the space for this 50-50 to finally turn out much less than it was in the current relationship because there's no punishment, we don't have in the criminal provisions of punishment for, say, failing to achieve an economic programme in the first or second year of all these beautiful desires on such a plot because it's 50 years old. We may have surveillance, as the minister said, of the board of directors or agencies, but there the programme is assessed by an adviser who should only have one year of employment or knowledge of the issue. That's why it's a problem if we don't get rid of the point-
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29713	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29714	In part, I agree, but I believe that you've noticed that I've also advocated a change in the provisions of the score, and on the other hand, I think it's just like any other law, that call to local self-government units, so here we go again to decentralisation and to this 70%. Let's organize, we have it in our programs, help, here's a coma, to the O.P.G. in writing these economic programs. We have experience in this because we've already done it in some way. True, it was underestimated that we engaged enough, it was underrated I have to admit by the OPG itself because something else was promised to them, it doesn't matter anyway. That's what this is about. Let's change these habits and by the way as a state, as an institution, we have to train strictness once it's written that's the case. People didn't believe it. It was an economic programme before, but they underestimated it. We organized permanent workshops, and that was the way it went. That's what you're witnessing. I come there from Moslavina, from Posavina, but it's similar, I'm talking about that part, it's similar in Slavonia, I guess, here in Istria the least I know, but I'll get to know that, too, etc., etc. This is an invitation to the local self-government units, and it's good for these funds to come amongst other things. Here, let it be prescribed for a priority purpose and for that, why not. And we have the right to make discretionary decisions, which is why budgets and work programmes are used. So I see that solution. And in the end, I almost forgot to say it, you'll agree that it's also their help, they have to do their best, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29715	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29716	And that's how we help.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29717	Thank you very much. A general Croatian solution should be sought, we all agree. We are now going to the next debate, individual debate and respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29718	Dear President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's for sure that we need to change the existing law, whether we need to make a new one, probably and in some way we need... one confession to those who have tried to put together this new proposal and to give us directions here for discussion and to fix some things that need to be fixed because I'm going back to the old law, there are certain things that were good. And here they were heard maybe in some parts that they weren't, like, selling that agricultural land. Yeah, it was all there. There was a lot at stake to say strange things at the very least, a lot of abuse. And the bottom line was that all of that country was being processed, that people living in these areas could live on that country, that the unit of local self-government would get the funds most often and existed in that way. However, as one of his colleagues said, it was not always a local fairy tale, but it was all within the law. But I'd say it was, there were local bajas, but begarras next to it. Because there are examples that didn't end so well. Available programs were also made by people who determined most of the units of local self-government and then came, there were various abuses. We have such examples or even criminal charges against people who have done such programs, who have favored others. After these others who received the country at a significantly lower price than the competitions under the programmes that were already valid, the unit of local self-government was cut off, the unit of regional self-government was eventually abolished. So, they favored the big systems that got the country first for smaller leases, the second much more countries got, and even some ratios in total available land by a certain unit of local self-government to say they broke down because they were getting almost, if not all of them almost all the farmland. That was supposed to change. The sale was good in those parts that were well spent as well as available. But I didn't say anything now, or I didn't invent hot water, but unfortunately, these are our O.P.G.s, which there are 180 thousand registered by them, only 120,000 who handle less than 3 ha. So, they should have been brought closer to the opportunity to get to that very country to say, that this peasant naked can survive on that grant of his on that ground. This, in my view, should have been one of the main and greatest weights of all the laws on the availability of agricultural land, because that is not the case, or we simply change the relationship so as not to guarantee the local agricultural population that they will be the beneficiaries of this agricultural land and that this land guarantees them the staying and safe existence in the areas where they live, and not to pass them, alongside that country by crying. Yeah, and it's supposed to change that. I'm also happy with some of the things in this proposal. However, some things would surely be recommended to change. So enough of us to say everything here, we've all mentioned this program, an economic program that, in some ways, let's say it's disabling again to those people who don't have the opportunity and logistics to apply for a contest and to be kind of equal. Let's just say who can do this from the O.P.G. and even agree together to guarantee the product market? Who can have it so I say that I say... peasants who registered the OPGs to have large qualifications, professional qualifications, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, big I'm going to tell the big systems, but so to tell the owners of large capital is simply they can move their systems to a certain or a certain part of the unit of local self-government and report to that competition and normally with these programs to say so the sum of points of 60 is not difficult for them to achieve. That it is necessary to secure the surface of how people will remain in that area. Otherwise, it's going to lead to one problem that we have right now, which is that people are going to leave. In that part, therefore, as far as the total agricultural area is known, it should be prescribed, therefore only once, that one participant cannot, in fact, grant that participant more than 40 or 50% of the total agricultural land. So I think it should also be the meaning and intensity of the amendments to this proposal simply for reasons to allow others, perhaps even more, to get the right and opportunity by competition, is it if they are chosen to become users of this agricultural land? Normally, I'm going to say one more thing that belongs to us by defolt, and I think it belongs to some burden to say so. However, it is fate, and it is also the return of refugees and returnees who are not finished in the Republic of Croatia that still have very many surfaces that are precisely and therefore unsatisfactory. And there should be certain solutions to how to get a large part of the Straight Wheels to become what it was before, and that is to say what California, small California in Croatia or in Slavonia, as now Posavina said, a colleague of the di has a very large situation that the moss is unworked, i.e. healed land. However, there are also cases that people have been so bold that they have taken over, and I will say, in the vicinity of Požega, they have taken even water sources and turned it into tourist attractions. I think it's a normal all under the exception of renting the land on which it's located, etc. It should all be predicted and the law should sort of correct these things, anomalies. And in the end, I know as well as any law, as we all can't be perfect here, but let's get him to the part where we're all going to be kind of unsatisfactory, but at least we say the minimum of satisfaction that we can still live on from that country, especially there where we've been born saying we don't know anything else, and that's Slavonia, Baranja. Is this what happens to us after these concessions, the people of our former big combinations now lose their jobs because rationalization and the type of business of the owner is simply such that without, as I say, having no feelings for small people, and in the end, they will again, as I said yesterday in the replica, have no one to turn to but the state and become social problems and again on the burden of the state. So here's the essence of mine, I said two or three things, that's 50% of the land, the change of this economic programme in those parts where it's possible. And I hope that the future will be much more transparent, clearer and fairer these land allocations. Because what was happening to us, I'm also going to say that in certain units of local self-government the state granted, or gave preferential concessions so that you had a certain concessionary to pay a hectare of 260 kuna to a concession that killed the unit market of local self-government. And then we come up with that question whether local self-government units can finance themselves, or if they can survive? Well, in this way, the boredom he's been can't. I agree it needs to be changed, it needs to be a new law if it can be prescribed, but in any case, I hope it will bring much better things than it's ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29719	Thank you too, dear colleague. There's a line to the line. The first replica and respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29720	You focused your discussion on a fellow Montenegrin, and the thought was exactly what the whole law meant to prevent previous abuses. This earlier law, or existing law, had its meaning because it believed that certain, I will not tell everyone, but local leaders acted really like sheriffs who shared state property with their known, their friends, their relatives, their relatives, their party colleagues. Just enough to look at Google and open up that problem, screaming headlines – Assigned land to yourself, 266 thousand 692 squares also assigned to their relatives, illegal agricultural land sale funded by a particular party. Therefore, the meaning of this law and all those who are screaming against this law and blurring the very thing is that it is logical and only the right of the state, and that is ultimately her responsibility, which would also give up her responsibilities to give up this agricultural land, according to the right transparent and clear conditions. Therefore, it was clear that after the operation to take away and privatise social enterprises the basic meaning, i.e. the attack was on state resources such as agricultural land and such as the exploitation of mining goods. You're talking about water now. It's all right, I'll point out again that it's '97. the abolished criminal act of exploitation of the mine treasure. The state's attorney's office has information that they would have reduced my total debt by two-thirds if it hadn't been illegally available and enriched by individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29721	Thank you very much. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Josip Boris. In what and what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29722	Dear President... and she didn't, and now she's got a chance for a replica. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29723	We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29724	If I was wrong, I apologize, but I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29725	No, no. I don't have a record that she was reported to be, that the debate was withdrawn, that's what I have here. So, if she was pulled I have, and we'll check. It's all written down here. I apologize if that's the case, I apologize to all of you. I don't have a record. Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29726	Yeah, you're right. That's what I said. However, it should be said that there was a situation where these programs were well-designed, where it was at the very least available to say so was fair and just, but I also cited examples as you have said that so far there has been abuse. I know from a lot of my local examples, so I said bye-bye to some local self-government units. But here I am going to get connected after you've given me a chance, here's the minister's out, but there's his associates, I said the failed big agricultural combinations that at the time not only cared about employment, they took care of the whole life in those areas. Even in their business they had what is now called socially responsible business, so one part of their income was being returned to some social development, etc. It may not be more than that, and even this law foresees that perhaps one of these 50% that now merges into the state budget is simply projected to return one part of it to the development of social activity of these units of local self-government where the country was leased. So, some percentage of 2% or 3% to simply help that community can in some way develop and social life in it as it has been over combinations, and now here it is not possible because everything has gone de facto into private hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29727	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29728	Thank you very much. My colleague, you said here, and it wasn't just you and many people today who spoke, and so did fellow Pandek before that, malfeasance, dishonesty, thieving. I don't know if you're aware that you've accused local self-government here, that you've accused both peasants and those who've been hired or sold, that you've accused the Ministry and that you've accused the State's Attorney. So this is where the charges were dropped at the expense of these institutions. Because we've repeated dozens of times how the process of selling or renting state agricultural land under the existing law is carried out. And I don't really know who's right about who's wrong anymore, I'm really surprised that that's just the way it's said it on a flat-rate basis, and that no one has set any concrete example and pointed out to the person or institution who made the mistake and who has therefore ended up being prosecuted because of those malversions that we're talking about so much. And it's amazing that we're talking about malfeasance all the time, and at the same time we're praising a law that's about to allow malversions away from the public's eyes. And I hope that all of these now, all of these warnings will really result in at least when this law is passed on the Internet, we can track every particle, every item, what happens, where the process, where the stage is and who finally gets it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29729	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29730	Well, I didn't generalize what you've just listed, but as you said, I mentioned you just didn't finish it. I said certain criminal charges were filed. That means, those peasants, or, in fact, I'm sorry, I say those people who were thought to have been hurt by these programs and those who were brave enough to know what to do, they filed criminal charges by law. I hope they won't be because I know, as I said in certain units of local self-government of good available plans and it's well implemented, but there are a lot of bad examples that have been filed criminal charges and I hope that in this way, until the second reading I hope that we will even correct this, certain provisions of the law, we may be absolutely much, much better and more perfect compared to the existing regulations. So, I'm not here, Mr. Hrg, generalizing things and generalizing everything, so to speak, in the entire Republic of Croatia, but only in certain units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29731	Thank you very much, President. Minister's associates, I'm sorry there's no minister because I wanted to make a point and I'll say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29732	At the cabinet meeting, he's a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29733	A fellow Montenegrin put the same focus on local self-government as almost all who participated in the debate. And it's interesting one thing, it's being established and explained, and certain provisions of this law that local self-government is this key player, as I would say in the whole process. And also this local self-government, many local self-government actually, are not able to bring in a spatial plan the same as they couldn't bring in or could bring in this available program. And no one has ever set a serious one, and I would say professionally, at all, the existence of certain local self-governments. You probably should've had some fun with that, too. I have to say, not to defend local self-government but I am headed by a local self-government that probably has the largest number of orange surfaces in Croatia, almost 20,000 hectares, of which half of them are state-owned, half in private. We managed to sell, privatize 2.5 thousand, close to 2.5 thousand acres in four circles. There were all sorts of letters and numbers of 5 objections, of which only one was little but founded. And we successfully realized that, and we have 30 strong ones, I call them farmers, OPGs, and about 70 or 60 of those that don't mean much in agricultural production. For me, however, the key problem is, and Article 31(1) is now being imposed here where the minister will determine the price of the lease. We're in this situation that for 7,000 acres...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29734	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29735	...we have instead of 3.5 million revenue is the lease below the market price significantly, we have only 800, 900 that's the key problem for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29736	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Dragan Montenegroc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29737	Yeah, that's what I've been pointing out, but a lot of cases, here's what I might be doing right now is maybe I'm going to make it more clear, maybe even the current law on units of local self-government was causing a problem of cohabitation, is it mostly, the representative bodies opposed the executive authorities, to say the least. So then they wanted to show that this executive power was somehow not so functional, and on the other hand they were reducing revenues as fellow Shoja now said, because they were lowering the prices and reducing the income of local self-government units. Maybe this new amended law on units of local self-government will change something further, I don't know we'll see, we'll see, we can only hope, here's Mr. Shoya I'm like I said, I hope and believe in this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29738	Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29739	Dear fellow, I don't know what to say about these really local sheriffs, but the Viennas are something else, even positively, they're not criminals, either. But I mean, it's really enough, because I don't believe that citizens would, therefore, give in direct elections to such people, such people and voices. And first of all, it's about insulting the state system. I'm not saying you've been insulted. There are examples where there have been, there have been malfeasances, but in 90%, so if anyone knows what middle it was. There are institutions of the Republic of Croatia and this should be reported. But the state's attorney's obviously doing a good job for us. On the other hand, you opened one topic that really matters to those former available programs where these large systems were local self-government could also be determined for concession. However, the price of the concession was not determined by either the commissioner or the municipal council, but by the ministry, and there is a problem that the administration of the ministry has so to say produced the negative effects of the past law and in the collection of these funds and in the division of the country. On the other hand, I am glad that I do not think of you again that this Croatian Parliament on agriculture and agricultural land has started talking about those who do not know how to plant onions or pomidor, not to say tomatoes or tomatoes, and that is a fact. That's a fact, unfortunately a fact. And what's state, so what's local self-government, is we're a moon organization or part of this country. Both local and regional self-government. But the foundation of the state is local self-government. The foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29740	Thank you very much. There's no answer. We're going to the next line, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29741	I thank you, Mr. President. So I'd just like to say two things here regarding my colleague Dragan Montenegro's exposure. I am never prone to harsh qualifications, and I would not say that the phenomena we were now talking about were generalized and said that neither by-laws nor by-products nor by-products, but I simply have to say that there was space in the law and there was in the previous model that allowed something to happen that wasn't good. It's not good, I said yesterday and I'll do it again. It is not good that in a large municipality called Trpinja, 90% of the population lives on land. So there's no industrial workers, there's no clerks, there's no doctor, there's no peasants, and there's always gonna be them. According to the previous model in the concession, the great concessionaire has no secret Vupik got 2 thousand 200 hectares, according to this proposed model will now have a advantage where the remaining 600 will be leased and that poor peasant in Trpinj will not remain a single hectare. So that's it. It's a thing to call a real name and let it remain the only case for now, let it be an isolated case but let it be an example of how things shouldn't be done. That's all I wanted to say. And another thing when I'm talking about concession fees, I think we should review those fees. If a farmer is paid to pay an arena of over 1,000 kuna per hectare, then it is not worth the concessionaires to work for 400 kuna per hectare. For how many million kunas were cut off from the budget of the municipality of Knezev Vinograd, to which his colleague spoke and how much funds would be made to adapt the concession fee to the real situation on the market in order to increase it. How much money would be for sport, for culture, for all other social activities in the budget of such a municipality. Therefore, there is a need to carry out a review of concession fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29743	Yes, colleague Horvat, you were much more specific than I was. But let me get ahead of myself and say that unfortunately here's how long it's been since we got the information that in Vukovar we're planning to reduce the capacity of workers or jobs in Vupik by the table, which is a very big problem for us, that is, the problem is for everyone when the number of jobs is reduced. But it's actually the result of these exactly the program of having certain privatisations. I can't say it wasn't good, it was a good privatisation of Vupika, but I think even those who privatized must have a lot more hearing in view of the activities they took over and the land they were dealing with and the land where the concessions were continued, and now normally this law says those who were in peaceful possession have a championship, so a hundred jobs. I hope it won't be true, which is why we mention them here in some way to think about it one more time and not to do exactly that kind of thing. But we do know that there are certain plans for the development of the company, but here it is primarily about staying in those parts of Croatia that are affected by the war, but ultimately this one needs to be provided, but it is not to reduce jobs but to ensure new job creations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29744	Thank you very much. And now a notice to the respected representative, Josip Boric, who reported the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We checked. A respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, was not called to talk about this topic in the transcript. Therefore, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that is how we determine the standard. A lawyer's speech application may be withdrawn until the moment he is called to speak. Thank you very much. You've helped us establish a new standard. Now we're going to have a five-minute debate on representatives' clubs. The first is the HDSSB Club and the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29745	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday, there may have been a little sharper or stronger debate but only in the interest of the development of agriculture, and I believe that both the position and the opposition, this development of Croatian agriculture must be in the first place, not a small party interest. And this shows first and foremost this debate that lasts almost a day and a half and not wanting to come back to 2001 and making the first one by my name one of the most important laws of 11.07.2001. The law on agricultural land, on agriculture. I believe that this law and it is good to go to another reading that first and foremost as a minister and as a member of the government, you must accept the arguments that are related to this law which relate primarily to several important matters, which is a complete centralisation, a complete exclusion in the decision-making of local self-government, which is also required under this law to prepare the full documentation, which is required practically to do 90% of the work, and will be decided here in Zagreb. If, above all, there have been some irregularities in the procedures of these tenders, malversion exists primarily in the institutions of the rule of law of the Republic of Croatia. And every one who knows not what is written in the newspaper, every one who knows is obliged to report it to the competent institutions. This law does not know and what is most important for local self-government, not only this distribution of funds in which regional self-government is expelled, and it is also one of the essential disadvantages of this programme, since almost all counties in the Republic have certain programmes that are related to the development of agriculture, it is certainly necessary to find a model whether this is a percentage of 25% whether it is an increase in local self-government, a reduction in the state in any case remains sufficient until the second reading. But the other thing that's important for local self-government units right here in this theme of agricultural land is that land of particular interest for local self-government, which this law abolishes where many local self-government units on that land have certain projects that have entered spatial plans, general urban plans and thus closes the door for the development of local self-government. There is certainly also this point if this law does not know the tenants so far, it knows only the economic programme which is practically and this part of the law was written exclusively for large systems although even large systems cannot be kicked out of the entire management of the Croatian workers, the French do not work there. But in any case, the law written like this exclusively suits the big systems, and it's only written for them. So the question of current employees who may in a certain local self-government have signed a contract for 20 years, this way the law is not protected at all. Not to mention now Croatian defenders who are engaged in agricultural production, etc. I don't want to open up another topic. I think there's plenty of time to get it all together. Who guarantees by this law that the malfeasances and individual cases that have occurred so far will not be repeated? This time perhaps not in Lenjska Varoša or Voćin or another municipality but here in Zagreb at the Ministry of Agriculture, who guarantees it? Who's signing the contract? Who's assigning the country? What does that transfer mean? Whether it's hiring new 500 people in agencies, and we're witnessing that with paying agencies, it's not for the sake of agreement with the EU, but for rationalisation they're closing in big cities and they're farmers against it. We are now opening up a new option, this job cannot be done in Zagreb I'm closing up. [[Intruder: Finalize the debate.]] This law must be implemented in local self-government because local self-government is the basis of both these countries and Croatia but is also the basis of all EU member states.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29746	Thank you very much. The first line has Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29747	Thank you, Vice President. I will agree with Mr Vinkovic that this debate is certainly in the interest of farmers in the Republic of Croatia. But I'll remind him of one thing when it comes to the centralization we've heard in these two days countless times, that this law is going in the direction of centralization. I'll just tell you and you know it well, the last law was just that centralization. I'll give you an example. You know well that we in Djakov have spent it you know better, 3 or 4 contests, you will say it in response to the replica, not one has passed. Why? Because the local HDZ and HSS who were in the opposition said so to the minister. The competition does not have to pass, although there was no objection. Well, it's centralization. No matter what local self-government has done, some sheriff named Cobankovic says it's not working out, that sheriff is involved, you understand. When you mention the new 500 jobs that are going to open this, it's simply incorrect. You know well that under the past law, the commission has locally adopted the programme, this programme has come to Zagreb to some new commission at the ministry that it can't, it can't. It can if HDZ brought the program, it can't if it's SDP, that's how it worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29748	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29749	Now, my Damien, and now this SDP has made that decision, so it's standing with the SDP's minister, but I wouldn't look at it that way, but I would look at it in a way that I didn't talk about the past law. In that law, there was one foolish decision that the ministry gave consent or did not give consent. And that was last-law wound cancer, wound cancer. It could give consent to a programme of availability that units of local self-government did not write any nonsense in that law, but the decision to grant after the city council's decision after all possible institutions that would eventually be appointed by the state's attorney before the contract was signed was primarily a political decision which could reward similar or punish the unsuitable. And that's the only thing. But in that law there was something as good as this law was good and at least I personally advocated that it should never have been, and even in 2001, that there should have been no sale of agricultural land but that it was exclusively going into lease, but at the time I was not a parliamentary representative and this was the only thing that was good in this law. On the other hand, this 50-year term. One former law knew both warfare and livestock, fruit growing, vineyarding, olive growing, and we can't bring it all down to 50 years. Well, a lot of countries, I said yesterday, didn't last 50 years in this space. And I don't want to, I lit that candle for Croatian agriculture yesterday. I don't want to bring a crown into this House. And as for Sheriff Cobankovic, let's not put that sheriff's badge on Jakovina now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29750	The Republic has Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29751	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Vinkovic, you mentioned malfeasances and yes, we must say that there were many of them under the past law, it is an inexplicable fact just as many people who worked the country simply had to resort to certain things that are at best in the gray zone if we call it the law, in order to get enough land to process. I think this law better resolves it in the sense that farmers who need a particular fund of land will be able to compete for that fund. The management of state goods, which I consider to be agricultural land, has not been well implemented so far, at best. We have a situation where the state isn't aware of what it owns, it hasn't listed all its assets. We have situations that have been happening to us where the ministries exist in certain buildings, they're paying for the fabulous rents, and there are spaces that are state-owned that could take them. I think that if the agency is set up properly and meets its legal obligations, this law will give us a better insight into how land is managed by agricultural land and how much it will maximise the exploitation of the same land. Besides, as you mentioned, this law is in the first reading, I believe that the second one will experience some changes, but I believe it will go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29752	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29753	Again on malfeasances, so if you know about these malfeasances, crime, I don't know, you're obliged to report it to the state's attorney, not call the press. I claim that in every contest that has been held so far, there have been objections and they will be on each one, there will be. This law does not even know the objection, not even the existing one knew it, he knew the lawsuit at the municipal or competent court, but this objection was introduced as the possibility of all those who appeared in the tender that they could still complain. The cancer of all these competitions was the ministry, regardless, not now but also the past which did not give you that consent in time, and should not have given it because after the whole procedure you have the state's attorney's office that introduces you into possession. So it introduces you, the state introduces someone. And now, on the other hand, whether this job will be better done by someone here in Zagreb than people who know who does what, so people who are elected to the city council. And I can't tell my city council president that he was involved in malfeasance. It was in Djakov's protest, there were five tractors, organised by one political party. 95% satisfied, you have 149 complaints on one particle, 150 reported. Let's not end the right to local self-government. Well, you know how many agencies there are in Zagreb, so neither does the Prime Minister because they haven't all found them, and they don't know where they are, and they have...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29754	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29755	Like the Ore Research Agency and a waste of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29756	Final word on behalf of the club Croatian Labourists and Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29757	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, several times it was said last night, yesterday and today, no one insults local self-government, no one insults peasants. All those who claimed to have offended someone, I did not experience that any debate was so intonated that it would offend either peasants or self-government. And those who say there was no malfeasance and that all the malfeasances should have been reported to the rule of law I think they're completely wrong. It should be reported, but if that rule of law worked then there would be no Sanader case. I mean, we know very well that we don't have a legal state. We do not consider Croatian Labourists to be in the sale, assignment, division, the lease of the country until now, and therefore I welcome the introduction of order. The agricultural land was divided by both midwives and uncles and ministers and justly, by all means. The state sale began the HDZ, continued the SDP, then accepted HDZ, and the SDP will, according to statements and preparations, sell out everything anyone wants to buy. The agricultural country began to sell out the SDP, the SDP created for the frameworks, for the housing of agricultural land. The philosophy of what is good for Todorovic is good for Croatia, the SDP and the rest of the Kukuriku coalition was also represented in the first term, and in the second term, it turns Croatia into... the worst neoliberalism. With this bill, the Kukuriku coalition corrects its mistake, but does not give up selling Croatia's insurance, the Croatian Post Bank, concessioning highways and guessing banks. Preventing the sale of agricultural land is a fig leaf on a general sale. I repeat, Croatian Labourists are asking for the government to propose, and the Parliament is discussing and adopting a Agricultural Strategy because food will be a more valuable resource than gold. The key question is whether we can, if we want to make food enough that we don't need to import food. A billion dollars of agricultural exchange deficits is a disgrace to all governments so far, and to this government as well. This Law should only be one of the tools for self-sufficient agricultural production. We agree on the law itself that the state participates in the distribution of agricultural land but not in a way that rules out local self-government entirely. Yes, we support the ban and sale of land as well as the sale of everything owned by the state. But some parts of the law are legalizing mass particle sales by particle. That's what we've talked about. So one way to stop the sale is to keep the other from opening up in a slightly more perfidious way. Bad are almost no criteria for the allocation of agricultural land. It's a bad law, and we won't get any more riots with that law. There's no control over the agency's work. The agency is all-powerful, the agency can do anything. If they were Supermans, I've already spoken several times, it's been proven on many examples that they haven't. This government refuses to control and cooperate with the claim that they have the courage to take responsibility. The way they are responsible is seen by catastrophic staffing in public enterprises. After bad experiences, why should we believe in the righteousness of land? In an inconclusive word, meaning the word remains inconclusive, legal solutions are bad, which leads to the conclusion that there will be no fair division of land. We're opposed to guessing the new age-old owners. The land should be awarded to farmers, small economies in a fair way without party preference. So far, the party's identity card has been more important than both the ability and the ability of both talent and education. This bill does not guarantee justice or the development of agriculture. It seems that if the law is not corrected in relation to the rest of the world, we will remain in a vasal relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29758	Thank you very much. The replica of your presentation has Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29759	Well, you're right, colleague, that this law really does not guarantee the development of Croatian agriculture. This development with work, therefore, on this agricultural land with new technologies can guarantee what Croatia does not have at the moment. It is a strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture. We do not have one obsolescence, which is no longer valid at this time and is not prepared for the entry of both Croatia and Croatian agriculture into the EU. However, I did not even mention it in the debate. This Law, and the former one about this, should be managed by the state and that law knows this Agricultural Land Agency. I absolutely agree that the agency runs that land, those units of local self-government that didn't bring in a programme of agricultural land. And on that basis, these leaders have done evil to me for their local self-government. But we can't do this by law, even if within 30.6. and I don't believe it's possible, because I know very well from experience when you're asking all the competent institutions to give you the consent that it lasts half a year if not a year thanks to the hasty. We can't punish that local self-government for one reason or another. The point is that in agricultural land on local self-government, regardless of whether it is a state or private decision in Zagreb, the ministry, the agency, but that it is decided in local self-government and that what you said, this extremely bad distribution of points must indeed change because this is a law that was written exclusively for large ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29760	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29761	Dear counterparts Vinkovic and you and I and many other colleagues in the Croatian Parliament have established what is not difficult to notice that there is no strategy, agricultural strategy. But there's no strategy in anything, not in any segment. One journalist wrote that when he reads or hears from us Parliamentarians, the word strategy is to wave on a gun. Then we won't call it strategy. We don't know what we're going to do, which we're going to manage, how we're going to manage, where we're going to be in 10, 20 years. How can we give land for 50 years when we don't know what we're going to produce? It's just that the state didn't say where we were going to be, where we are in relation to Europe, and every day in agriculture, it gets worse. That we know that, in 1911, we had a stock fund of 1.2 million cattle we had. Today we have 196,000 dairy cows probably less. Will this law improve the situation in agriculture? Let's say the purchase of milk is 300,000 liters a day less than it was bought before. Do we have an answer to that question? Did we get the answers? Is this the way the land is distributed? The peasants who grow cattle will be able to get it. Many farmers who grow cattle simply said we can't take it anymore because we have to sublet the land because they don't give it to us, although we should have a priority. How? Will they have priority, won't they have priority? The law does not answer these questions. The law is, it's too small, it doesn't need much detail, but there are too few of these definitions who can actually get the land? The criteria are fluid, they're gone, and everything is left to an agency that really has to be a miracle of wonders in order to divide the country well and to be just. I'm afraid it will also be on the party's key because why would this minister be an exception when so far what's in the Kukurik coalition has proved to be done by party key.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29762	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the HNS club and counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29763	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with your associates. On behalf of the HNS Club a few more minutes as a summary of everything that was said yesterday during the debate and as a summary of what we are inside the club as parliamentary representatives, as responsible people concluded by studying this bill. Of course, we continue to support and stand firm in that the fundamental intensity of this law is good and correct, which is that agricultural land in the future is avoided for sale, or sell, especially in the national portfolio of course we have no influence or we can support this fundamental position that the natural and general wealth of the Republic of Croatia should remain available to future generations and that they cannot be subject to alienation and trade, however, we see certain things in this law that we believe should consider. And in that direction, the CNS will go with certain written proposals and comments on the proposed text. So I'll take the turn. In the re-use of land, fees are provided for at 30% of local self-government 70% of countries, 25% are removed from the county. We have our thoughts in HNS that perhaps the ratio of 50/50 would be more effective because capillaries, i.e. descent and certain activities that the minister will prescribe by regulation, are much more effective if they are done on the ground. It is also true that this re-use of land and resources would be well prescribed in the law that the funds must be returned back to the agricultural sector in such a way as to be similar to that of the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy, which stipulates that everything collected from the municipal contribution must be returned to the municipal infrastructure or similar to the Law on maritime good and seaports, which stipulates that the funds collected from concessions for the use of maritime goods must be returned to the maritime goods. We therefore believe that it should be explicitly written in this law that anything collected from this fee should be returned to the agricultural sector. We also hold that the composition of the commission is a matter of consideration in order to remove any thought of speculation within the agency itself and that local self-government should be more present. We believe that there is also a need to define the size of the production technology unit, i.e. to define what is the technological whole of the agricultural sector. For us, it is open to consider, of course, Article 35(2) concerning the transfer of lease rights for a natural and legal person. We believe that it should also be appreciated when it comes to the OPGs at least as many suggestions as possible given yesterday in the debate. In the case of exceptional sales of Article 50, when the agency in exceptional cases sells land, we hold that the price should be determined, but after the court's expert assessor assesses the value of the land, because it removes any thought and doubts that within the agency it might be discretionary to open up a space for manipulation and guessing. And finally Article 24 of the release from payment I am not an opponent of golf courses, I am not an opponent of investment but there are other investments that can be of equal even greater interest than the golf courses themselves. They are not specifically listed as categories which are released, so we keep in HNS that it might be wise to reshape this article a little bit more wisely, but with the same effect that truly those investments that are of the interest of the Republic of Croatia are placed in the same rank and are handled in this way. We don't see any particular reason to say the difference between golf courses and tourist resorts in Dalmatia. There's really no practical reason for that. Finally, the HNS will support the ministry's intensities. We see this law as its tool since it has taken responsibility for the functioning of the agro system we must give it a chance to create tools to do the job properly. We are pleased that, of course, the law is in two readings because it is too serious to go into an emergency procedure and we expect that during this period between the two readings, a very active public debate will be reopened in which we intend to participate as a party in a responsible manner. So much for the HNS, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29764	Replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29765	Here's colleague Baranovic I sometimes find it hard to believe, I don't know you'll be returning to Sibenik, being the deputy mayor, the mayor when you support that primarily agency and that this tool is in the hands of the minister. Then you were mad at Croatian agriculture if it was only in the hands of one man. Well, then, that's Bollyvism, centralization. On the other hand, I don't understand why this law is hitting on regional self-government. What are the counties in Croatia? Are they needed by Croatia? Are they excesses? Is the City of Zagreb like a county surplus? Is this system, then obviously needs to be changed. So it's a regional self-government that is left without the funds of the 25% goes to the state of not local self-government. And I'm saying that it doesn't go for the program in agriculture, it doesn't go for soil analysis, it doesn't go for irrigation, it doesn't go for the work I don't know what, it doesn't go for the development of agriculture, it goes for the wages of those who are going to read economic projects. And that's a fact. It's one of the only facts. I don't see why, so we have counties when they obviously don't need them in Croatia. And as far as I am aware, as well as in the SDP programme and in the HNS programme, not to mention the HDSSB stands the Croatian region, the Croatian region, Slavonia, Istria, Dalmatia, central Croatia. Do we want to abolish what is written in political parties' programmes with this way and with these laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29766	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29767	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Vinkovic, you asked me a question in person, so I will answer you personally. Of course I intend to return to my city and of course I intend to continue to do my job as deputy mayor. As for your thinking of being given in terms of county and region, I personally do not equate regions, true regions in the Republic of Croatia with this administrative division that we have today at regional level, which are counties. Because you're aware that Slavonia doesn't mean the same thing as one and only Slavonia County. As for my personal opinion on the current administrative division of counties and their functionality and need, I'll keep it for some other debates, but I think you've read me quite well by thinking. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29768	And Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29769	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You mentioned article 24 to your colleague Baranović and investors who are being released of fees, so you mentioned under point I. I think golf courses, too, right? When the opposition is told one thing, and when it comes to being in a position, then it becomes power, then it behaves significantly differently. Why do I say that? Now I will quote to you what your colleague Beus said in the debate on golf courses on the subject: "What is actually, what is possible about it? When it is combined with other conditions, first of all with an incredible condition of the right of authority which is contrary, not only to the Law of Exclusion but also to the question of whether it is constitutional, because some entrepreneurs, and these are only investors. Golf courses put in a completely advantageous position from all other entrepreneurs on the market, and this Constitution prohibits it. In fact, it's clear that all the time it's been talking about favoring the construction mafia." I also quoted what Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Stazic said last night, and I will repeat today again: "Look, the fact that the government has proposed such a law should be enough for Mr. Bajic to invite you to talk. You and those you favor with such a bill, to determine how many commissions there are. Because to propose here to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public, that Croatian forests should be taken away from the state and given to a private without any compensation for redundancies so that the country can be taken away as if the highway was built so that someone could make enormous profits." Here, he will also be glad to see the direction in which the second reading will go and what the proposal will be, that is, whether the article 24 remains the same as it is in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29770	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29771	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of the Box, before I begin to answer your questions, I will remind you, only the Golf Act has been passed by you, in the name of your authority. And my attitude is no different than my colleague Beus Richembergh's attitude, I'm not an opponent of golf, but I'm not much of a fan, nor do I think that golf... Croatian survival. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important and should be given appropriate legal frameworks and that proposal that went by the CNS is, it is neither against golf, simply putting it in the category of those investments and projects that can be of national importance, i.e. the meaning of the Croatian economy. I don't know if you understand me correctly. And as for this second part of your replica, so don't be angry and don't take this personally as an insult, but I really don't think you're invited to give us lessons in that context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29772	Final word on behalf of the HDZ club and counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29773	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, the HDZ Club won't support this bill. Given that we have clearly defined in this debate last day as well as today the reasons why he is very suspicious and in certain articles suitable for malfeasance and for concessions to those who have the most. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 133 speaks of local, local, local, regional, regional self-government as the structure of the Croatian state, forgive me, as the structure of the Croatian state and there is a local self-government as a regional administration set up as an organisational unit for which citizens, through their decisions, hold a referendum at the polls. The same rights and obligations arising from the Constitution are defined in those units as well as the laws governing their business. This law excludes units of local self-government, violates again who knows which times the European Charter of Local Self-Government, does not cooperate with the alliance of municipalities, the alliance of cities to get a view and opinion. We put the Countys in another plan like those that shouldn't have any influence, but no income from agricultural land. We're making such a mean joke in this law that clearly shows that criteria are not a priority and that someone will decide how they will be. If that were the case, I would just like to show that there are tables that have been worth it so far, that have been called up for competitions and that have spoken clearly about the right of the championship, so they have talked about the additional criteria of one and the coming criteria of two. And in the end, there was a sum of these criteria, so it could be said that he failed to meet his obligations to local self-government, did not pay the rent, did not pay the tax or anything, so these were difficult circumstances. The OPGs and not one word have been deleted in this law and are gone. 300 thousand Croatian holdings formed as OPGs no longer exist. All this is saying that we clearly want to raise those who can develop the economic programme by other criteria that are professionally trained, who have whole teams, who will write that they have hundreds, 200, thousands of workers, 100 tractors, complete machinery, that they will employ another thousand people, and you can't judge it less than 60 points. I don't know which way. I would like the Minister to include a scoreboard in this law by the next reading one piece of paper will no longer or less change anything in this law, nor will it be more difficult nor will the Croatian State poverty but we will have the criteria for all to be treated, which will be strictly included and I would ask that the defenders be in this list in Article 6 so that the defenders who have agricultural households will be the only income to be in any of the additional priorities perhaps not necessarily given that they have been so far. Mr. Minister, by disbursing funds from agricultural land, we take clearly in the counties what they did, and here I am not repeating it. I have already read this in the Croatian Parliament 17 measures that Virovitičko-Podravska County as well as all other Sisak-Moslavina and Zagrebačka and all others that have Osijek-Baranja encouraged and stimulated, co-financed and allowed agriculture to develop. Please don't lose sight of it. I hope that 25% of the state will be enough to fund all the employees in the agency to do this job. We suspect that the agency will be able to do all this work since this is the size of work that has so far been done by five or seven members of the commissions, the head of the municipal departments for the economy and agriculture and employees of these municipalities and the urgency has once again escaped there in municipalities that did not have all these services, and thus 70 of these municipalities. For these specific criteria, I would have introduced which have not now made a programme available, but why this programme of availability, which in the area of one municipality, only gave the possibility that everyone would have almost equal or similar access to the Agricultural Land Act. That doesn't have the criteria anymore today. Please look, one is too big and I can give every 100 ha, the other are too small municipalities and I can give 30-50 ha and that's all the things we're arguing about. Let us also dispute over Article 24 of the agricultural land, i.e. release from the golf course fee. I mean, why? We also argue about things called the local self-government representative. Let's be specific about these things and we'll be together for anyone who supports... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29774	Final word on behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29775	I would like to thank Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. One more thing to say after all these discussions we've had here for a day and a half. So one debate didn't seem to share my opinions so much as a debate on the availability of agricultural land in these two days. A lot of things have been said, a lot of things have been compromised, past the model this future and so on. I don't think there's anything else to say. But I have to realize that our perception and experience of this model is one entirely different concept. That this is a conservative approach with strong centralised and prominent centralisation compared to the previous model and that, of course, this is about increased responsibilities of the Ministry of Service, all services being accompanied especially by agencies for the availability of agricultural land. Accordingly, it is fully expected that much will be resolved in the future by sublegal acts, and we expect that all these black holes that we have now detected in the debate in the law will be resolved by sublegal acts but within some reasonable time limit than what has been set in 6 months if we want this thing to be truly completed then let's do this administration much more pronto and faster. Mr. Minister, you've given yourself a great deal of work with this law, and clearly, you've made it public that you've taken over and that your desire is to take on a great responsibility for the realisation of this law. We at the SDSS won't make it any more difficult for you. On the contrary, we will give you a chance because after all these discussions, we have come to the conclusion that this model, perhaps in the time that comes before us, I am talking about European integrations and all the uncertainty that it brings to such a single model, may well be given a chance. After everything we said yesterday, I wouldn't have convinced you, but I do have a need, given that this first reading is just apostrophe of two key things that are important to us, which are OPGs. We think the O.P.G. Institute should be stronger anyway. I don't think he's completely gone, erased from this law, but I think he needs to be given the first basic stronger position in the law, which is particularly interesting for one return population, so in return environments where people are still in the return phase. We are talking about a sustainable return, so where will they come back for God's sake if I can't even deal with the country, if I can't set up an OPG and through this OPG get certain social advantages or starting positions in relation to companies. No more cooperatives, no more employment in state-owned companies, no more companies are hard to hire. So where to hire those people who intend to come back and start a life over in their neighborhood. Therefore, for us, the OPG is the key thing. It's some kind of a fashion for living in the country, and I'm particularly talking about the category of the population of Croatian citizens that I represent, which I need to repeat myself again in some kind of sustainable return and development programme... and start a new life. The second thing that's crucial to us, and that's the thing that was foreseen in the first proposal of your law in this one, is now out, and that's the return of the country. One whole group of citizens, due to their status as exiled status, was not able to meet the basic form so as to meet that short deadline for submitting requests for the return of nationalised assets. To many and valid documents have disappeared, they are in great trouble to collect and their documents or evidence of previous ownership and I ask and I think it would be very correct to find space in this law several provisions that would provide opportunities and open new deadlines for applying for the return of nationalised property to that category of people. In the end, it's about their grandfather being taken away, and I think if they haven't already had the opportunity to participate in the purchase of the country, at least give them the right chance to regain their grandfatherhood. So we think that this should exclusively be about natural restitution in those bonuses that have been taken away and which is physically possible, and only to subsidically leave an option to make them cash compensation for that country. It would be good to repeat that in the second reading it is incorporated into this legal text because you had it planned in the first part of the work material.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29776	My colleague, please conclude the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29777	I thank you, and I'm done. I think the strategy in agriculture is more than necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29778	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29779	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's colleague Horvat talking about giving this law a chance even though you've ruled out all this time that there are no clear criteria that there are no evaluations that 60 points for the economic programme is too much to allow for those who have the most that direct contract is also the thing that can't pass which certainly leaves or direct contract that leaves room for manipulation. We'd like you to know who's going to be from your unit of local self-government, whether or not the head of the municipality is a member of that commission, whether it will be appointed by the municipal council and who will be these people who will be from the agency. Who's gonna name it? Minister by his decision or will the minister name his decision and the one from the field? What evaluation criteria? It is the biggest interest of Croatian peasants. And you forgot to say that the O.P.G. like you said you should stay alive has to be in the law, why we erased it. Why doesn't he have one word in a single letter in this bill? The OPG disappeared because they wanted 300 thousand OPG to disappear like 30 thousand cows ended up on slaughter, such as 150 million liters of milk reduced production, as meat production fell. Equally, 500 municipalities and cities are placed outside their functions as regards agricultural land will no longer decide on anything their economic programmes have been made available by this law out of force and that is what is certainly wrong and cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29780	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29781	I thank my colleague Djakic. So yesterday in the debate, I said our point of view about the shortcomings of this bill. It's in the first reading going now to the second reading. To expect it, I think it's rational to expect that the promoter will do a lot of what we said and respect, so fix the model, the concept he decided to go with. So it's such a concept that you either take it or leave it, that's how we experienced it. I'm not a disaster, and I don't think there's any conspiracy theory and now someone's gonna do something and mix it up. I simply think that the quality sublaws that need to be passed within a more reasonable period than what is prescribed will be elaborated. It's only when we see if it's worked out in a quality way that I can give an assessment of whether someone meant something bad or hid it or deny it to someone. With a text like this that I'm about to read, I can't say it right now, and I have a sincere desire to have the Ministry of this thing that we've done here as a failure to consider and to accept a lot of it in its second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29782	Final word on behalf of the promoter, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29783	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In yesterday's and today's above-the-long debate which has shown both interest and strength and argumentation, in fact, another confirmed the exceptional importance of agriculture as a strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia's economy has also confirmed the need to adopt a new Agricultural Land Act that will allow agricultural land owned by the state to be of good and special interest to the Republic of Croatia which enjoys its special protection as soon as possible as possible as possible. I listened carefully and recorded everything with my associates in this debate, all the comments, suggestions, suggestions that were partly marked by demagogy and pathetic and pre-election rhetoric in which there were partly incorrect and malicious claims but in which there were also very good and reasoned proposals that we would seriously analyse and install in the bill to make it as better, more efficient and transparent as possible. All those who have contributed, in this positive sense, to this occasion as a resolute minister of thanks. I'm going to repeat again the basic goals we want to do with this law. Acceleration of the availability of state agricultural land as the main priority to be achieved by this law, an increase in agricultural land use, further fostering the process of surrounding agricultural holdings and agricultural land, introducing greater discipline and control in the use of agricultural land, but especially in the reuse of agricultural land, and introducing an information system and database that will improve agricultural land management and make the whole system transparent. I responsibly argue once again that this law was not done for neither great nor small, although in this debate except for a lot of demagogy, pathetics I haven't really heard what you think, especially this critical part of what it is big or small. Under the current law, I know a series of OPGs that have been through sales, whether they get 500, 700, 900 hectares at their disposal, have one or no employees, whether it's big or small. This law is not designed for the like, nor for the like, this law is certainly and least designed for speculators with agricultural land and for stakeholders. This law has been prepared and built by gentlemen for agricultural producers who know, can and will produce food better and more than ever and improve agricultural production. All that we heard well in yesterday's and today's debate will be well analyzed, part of it I hope and put into the next proposal that will come into this honored home and then discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29784	Thank you very much, Minister. Three replicas to your exposure. Josip Djakic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29785	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In these exhibitions, there is neither demagogy nor pathetic but there is a reality that is distinguished in Article 6. When you work it out with a strict blackmail with grades whether it's 1 to 60 or 1 to 20 or 1 to 10, when we know who and then what it's going to be transparent. Once you rule out the possibility of a direct land sale contract will also be transparent and then we'll say that you did well. Put on another table with all these things that are needed through the economic program, put on a table, answer us how you'll name an article from local self-government, throw out a direct contract, and then we'll say that there's a really transparent way for farmers to get their land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29786	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29787	Dear fellow Djakic, Article 6 is talking about the protection of agricultural land so I don't quite understand what you're trying to say, but I'm going to do it again. In 10 years of availability, you have placed less than 30% of the state agricultural land in a way that was all but transparent, fair, efficient and fast. The most important resource for agricultural production is our agricultural producers that you and today have paid so much attention to and have not been able to obtain a basic resource for agricultural production and this is the reason for stagnation of agricultural production and poor results and in primary production, but also for the unpreparedness of our food and processing industry to what is coming to us, to the challenges that we will face upon our entry into the European Union. This law will correct shortcomings and will be much more efficient, much faster and this resource that remains, and I am talking about nearly 650 thousand hectares of state-owned agricultural land that is not available to our farmers will be in the function of food production. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29788	Branko Vuksic, replica. ... Dude, you didn't get the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29789	Your Honor, you said that for whom this law is written, for whom it is not. You said first of all to make it simple, it wasn't written for speculators. But from this text you can't see that intention, the thing is what we're talking about. We don't doubt your fair intentions, but from this text you can't see, he's vague, he's unspeakable. There are no criteria on which we insist, we want to help you with that, we want to actually help the villagers, and probably you want to. You must remember that when the law is written in a way that can be interpreted in different ways, remember the laws that allowed the robbery privatisation of the '90s. those years. Today it is said that it was criminal, but we can only talk about ethics and honesty because we have passed one wrong procedure, and even they could sue us who privatized it because it was all by law. So we wouldn't want this law to allow when the law is passed, and if it isn't passed, no worries, hundreds of people, lawyers will work and find holes so that some in the agency you won't be able to control, you're not all-powerful man so they can assign land to their cousin. So don't be angry if we warn you of the criteria, if we warn you of any uncertainty. The law is written badly, his intentions again confirm and Croatian Labourists support that the state manages its land and Croatian Labourists support that the land is not sold out, but then correct the law so that the neighbour can buy a particle if it is smaller than it. So you can sell out the whole of Croatia, I'm sorry, in a more cunning way. I mean, those are the holes I hope you'll fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29790	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29791	Dear fellow MP, I said that in this second debate there were very good and constructive proposals which have been reasoned and which my team of professional services and I will personally consider and all that we think will improve this good or excellent bill will be installed as such. And we have given these provisions on the economic programme exactly what are the criteria and how and in what way, but by respecting what we heard in the debate, we will re-analyze everything. I didn't say that the debate wasn't good, although as much as we were in a hurry and as important as it is for this law to be passed as soon as possible, and it starts to have agricultural land, I personally asked and let it be done well and public debate and insight and analysis through all those bodies, services and other resolution ministries, but also that it goes in two readings to give this House an additional pain so that this law would be excellent. I hope you'll be happy with most of the things we offer in the final version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29792	And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29793	Dear Minister, there are no election speeches here. So we can characterize your final exposure. But aside from that. So we said that we support the intention, first of all, that the land does not go for sale, and it is good that this law goes in two readings, that it does not go by emergency procedure. But here are two basic questions. And in the past law, when the Agricultural Land Agency was established, it was intended for a local self-government that did not make the programmes, it did not carry out the tenders. What about the competitions that were held? What about current employees in the incentive system, they have contracts with the local self-government unit, all of which go to that transitional account where the state gets 25%. We're entering the spring seed. They ran out of contracts last year. Those contracts last 10 years. What about them? That problem, and I know it doesn't solve this law. But you have to give the answer loud and clear. So many units of local self-government conducted a tender, made a decision. One and the other, the ministry simply doesn't have a solution. It is bad that the ministry gives consent both through the State's Attorney's Office and through the Commission, etc. But let's not talk all the time about how local sheriffs and powerful men shared the country. And I wonder how someone could get 700 ha of state agricultural land when the program said that the maximum 150 ha was either a sale or a lease. How could he get it? That's what someone is responsible for, and that's what needs to be answered for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29794	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29795	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Vinkovic. In a way to take 18 family farms at a particular address. We have not heard a single word about the irregularities in the registration, in the tenders and other ones which were and in this regard that in one address or in one household there was a larger number of OPGs in order to come and specify whether to buy, whether to rent, whether to rent. A lot of concern for the OPG, and not a single word about such irregularities as have been recorded in a series of units of local self-government. For what you have asked all the tenders that have been issued under the existing law and the whole procedure that is under way according to what that law has said continues as such. Those who are positive, where everything has been done properly and in accordance with the law get positive opinions and go to the signatures and function under the existing law. Those who do not deny their consent and will go according to the new law. And the third thing you asked is what happened to the land that went to certificates that we don't have the titler and the user for. In this law we have provided temporary availability for up to five years until this and all other land of these 650,000 ha and we have it even more because we are not through the available programs, we are not through all of the 20 years that we have missed to create the base of the basic wealth that we have in the land resource, so we have a number of other forms of ownership still listed in the ownership books that are not drav and is not recognized as such and is in the programmes themselves. This is the priority of this law to put all state land into operation and therefore we have foreseen both temporary availability, i.e. the possibility of up to five years until the land-booked correct procedures we have and translated in the right way. I think this law will get the maximum effect right through implementation this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29796	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-05-0.u29797	Proposal for a law on agricultural land, first reading, PZ No. 251, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on agricultural land is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 30 against and 2 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
