ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56386	My colleagues and colleagues are starting a session. We will discuss the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56387	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Labourers – the party of work due to the relentless events at the Clinical Hospital of Dubrava I request a break of 15 minutes and I ask that the Minister of Health address us and explain why the party shifts in some departments of the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56388	I'm a colleague of Reiner's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56389	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The HDZ Club is looking for the same break for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56390	I'm setting a break until 9.44. It's 9:00.34. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:44 AM]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56392	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, here are 30 seconds before you started, but it's okay. Here we are. The world would have unlimited possibilities if it could limit the power of the limited. Many authorities would be happy to stop Reuters, or any bad news for them. But they would never really stop themselves in bad, bad, or unprofessional moves. That's why my appeal is "stop the Coroline and Ostojic". Stop the chaos in the health system and finally stop the doctor's strike in a more appropriate way by agreeing, dialogue, goodwill and both sides and employers and the state and the medical union, i.e. the doctor. The dialogue won't even begin if one side, and this time it's the government, or its ministers, and Prime Minister Milanovic himself will try in a not very polite, civilized way to reassure doctors. In every one, every profession of porters, auto mechanics, farmers, through politicians, to lawyers or doctors, there are dolls. There are bad porters, bad farmers, cattlemen, politicians, cleaners, lawyers, traffic engineers, judges, journalists and doctors. But the hands on the heart are the least unskilled in my humble opinion among doctors. Croatian doctors are among the best in Europe, with them we can admire. After all, patients in the vast majority stand out just as nurses and doctors as the only solid pillars of our health system. We're in transplants at the top of the world. Please, colleagues and colleagues, what are we still at the top of the world? Nothing. And as the government refers to nurses and doctors, top experts specialists such as records, chats, scribes. From the post of Head of the Medical Hospital of Dubrava Medical Hospital, Resuscitation Director Dr. Dragan Marinić Korolia replaced Professor Leonarda Patrlja from the post of head of the Hospital for Internal Affairs, excuse me. He's been replaced by a professor. Leonarda Patrlja, and from the post of Head of the Hospital for Internal Diseases Dr. Jadranka Morović Vergles. Why were Patrlj and Jadranka Morovic removed? Because they didn't keep an orderly record of who was on strike. For those who do not know Leonard Partlj is also outside the borders of Croatia a distinguished surgeon, a Croatian pioneer liver transplant, a surgeon that any hospital and the head of the clinic would want. But he doesn't want to be ruled by Kukuriku. She's asking him not to transplant his liver, not to run a very important clinic, but to keep records of who's strike and who's not strike. As pilots were convicted by the average of higher wages and evend them withfork drivers and top-notch surgery, top doctors change because they do not perform the tasks set up before them by the party’s acronyms. Patrlja was replaced by Marinić Corolia director who changed the status of the hospital and reduced the criteria so that they could appoint him as director, until Corolia, the director of KB Dubrava could be the only doctor who had the status of a university teacher. The new government allows people who have not run the smallest system to lead a hospital giant like KB Dubrava. It's also interesting the way they replace the Patrol over a secretary, you'd say it's catlike from an ambush. And what does the principal say about lowering the properties? I was just following orders. Whose? The party, booklet and similarity are still in fashion, so 151 doctors went abroad in 4 months, and nurses also left. Who will treat Croatian citizens? The health minister will organise fast-track courses for those SDPs that have not yet been able to employ in state services. However, we ask that you stop torture, disorder and chaos in Croatian hospitals and return the experts to the positions they deserve with expertise and work, and give your aperacies places that deserve and do not lower the criteria from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56393	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56394	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What to say at a time when top experts are being replaced, allegedly due to administrative failures. What to say in a situation where instead of trying to solve a series of problems that exist in Croatian health, we hear the light judgments of doctors and nurses who are spoken with such an incredible ease that we can all remain just astounded. However, of course no figures are mentioned, there is no mention of the fact that because of such a relationship between the authorities and the nurses and the doctor in the last 4 months, only in the last 4 months, went from Croatia to the bread of 151 doctors. Young, top experts went to another exodus as well as a number of other young experts because obviously this Croatia does not need them. It's a message sent to them every day. Hundreds of nurses learn foreign languages to leave Croatia in the coming months as well. And of course I'm going to ask the question, and who's going to treat Croatian patients? Who's gonna treat us? The messages to be sent to doctors and nurses are, for example, that the duty and alertness of theft are from the state budget. So I ask you when someone gets a heart attack and comes to the hospital if it's the thieves who have to sit for 24 hours at home next to their cell phone and then about their own expense and in their own car from home at 2 a.m. at 4 a.m. to come to the hospital, a few hours to devote themselves to saving lives, setting up stents, dilation of coronary blood vessels to patients, and then most often it's morning and they have to keep working. Is it for them, and we have heard these messages, and 7 kunas too much for such a job? These are messages that are being sent. Whether the answer that is then offered is completely unknowing and from the complete ignorance of the problem should be organized shift work. The shift work that, excellently, could be employed by 25 to 30% more people, and now we miss both doctors and particularly nurses. They work to the limit of endurance and, of course, those who make decisions don't care, they don't care. They reach for the floscules, reach for the ease of qualifications instead of trying to solve the problems. And the problems exist, the problems are huge. I don't know if you're aware that, say, clinical medical centres for medications and consumables today have only 50% of the amount of money they had a year, a year and a half ago. So how to function the same way when you have half the money for the consumable material, which is these catheters, stents, pacemakers, etc. You'll set them half the size. Therefore, as I have said many times, it is not a strike that has led to a small number of services in hospitals, it has brought a shortage of money, and that should be made clear. And it will continue on, obviously. We will discuss the budget from which it is fully evident. It's also visible from the budget rebalancing. So, it's very clear to say there's been no health recovery, money's been spent but recovery means healing. For the resolution, structural reforms should be made, none of them are made, and when you make structural reforms and cover all debts, and not all debts are covered, so the two main components and the only components are not resolved, so neither structural reforms nor covered debt can you start from scratch and require everyone to work properly. If you give these people half the money, you haven't covered your debts, and you haven't made any reforms, nothing will happen. And they also show the figures we're going to talk about today. I don't know if it'll be visible to everyone, but hospitals are at first so-called. Recoveries have made a new debt of nearly a billion kuna and will continue to do so, to make it clear to everyone. Because systemic problems are not solved, doctors and nurses are offended by disqualification instead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u56395	Thank you very much. We've heard clubs, and now we're going to have a discussion. We heard the clubs, and now we will move on to the debate on - Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013; - Proposal for amendments and addition of decisions on granting consent to the financial plans for 2013: (a) Croatian Waters, (a) Croatian Roads, (a) Centre for restructuring and sale, (a) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation; - Proposal for amendments to the State Budget and financial plans of extra- budget users for 2013 (consolidated); she is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Articles 211, 212 and 213 shall apply when amending and supplementing the national budget. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Links, the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed amendments and additions to the state budget may not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget. In the course of discussions on changes and additions to the state budget, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out by the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget may be adopted provided that other expenditure and expenditure are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this regard, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for the amendment is until the debate is over. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days from the date of the debate can elapse. I now call on the Minister of Finance, Mr. Slavko Linic, to explain the proposal to us to amend and supplement the budget. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59112	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for the change in the State budget for 2013 is also on the revenue side, given that the revenues are reduced compared to the planned but also on the expenditure side, given that expenditure is higher than they are planned. Well, a brief explanation for both sides. When we talk about the revenue side, then from €113.4 billion total revenue is reduced to €11.5 million or approximately 2.9 billion less than we predicted for 2013. If we've been watching for the last three years, then we see that we're at 107.4 billion in 2011 in 2012. It had 109.8 meaning growth and in this year we will have slightly less than one billion more revenue than in 2013, which means that incomes are growing but not in the intended amounts as envisaged by the budget itself. What items do incomes not come about? The revenues planned are not realised on the VAT and on the other hand on the profit tax, and several arguments in that section. When we look at the reason why VAT does not grow in the planned amount, then we can say that it is obvious that our assessment that the loss will be around one billion kuna at the expense of EU entry has been underestimated and that at this moment we are recording more than 1.6 billion lost VATs, given that VAT revenues are not made on customs day, but that we are only part of the EU internal market from the realisation of sales and regular accounts. It's on one side. On the other hand, there's an estimate in half a year that we lost at customs about 380 million kuna and on excise duties of 470 million kuna. These are about the negative effects on the revenue side related to six-month EU membership, and obviously we have not been able to predict these minuses that we knew were expecting. At the same time, our economic growth projections based solely on investments were not realised, and in that part, about 1.7% and 1.3% growth projections were not achieved, and therefore the lower VAT amount was lower. When we look at the profit tax, you know that we have passed a regulation that the economy which decides to reinvest the tax is down to 0%, therefore they are completely exempt from the profit tax and that is the amount of about 900 million kuna that is less achieved than in 2012. What can we say about the revenue side? So when we talk about the revenue side, then we see that essentially the effects of slightly increased revenues are only due to greater tax discipline but on the other hand, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a series of measures we tried to recover the economy from years of crisis and wrong investments in the economy and by a series of incentive measures. When we talk about incentive measures, we also mention two indices of points of reduction in health contributions and reduction in giving for part of the parafiscal burdens. Then we also talk about the costs of the reinvested or reinvested income tax because these are all the funds that remain in the economy. There is also a VAT policy where, for tourism, we have also reduced the rate at the 10% rate for the activities of catering services, and these are the effects that remain in the tourism economy. When we sum up all of this together, then, for the economy, tax collection has brought about about € 4.5 billion in the state budget, and it is so much about the government's policy of fostering the economy and the battle for competitiveness that the economy left behind so that their results would be more positive and that the economy and its own forces would be able to cover losses and dubiosis from earlier years. You can't see the result. It is not seen because the private economy has not launched an increased production cycle in view of the opening of the European market since 1.7 this year but has not launched a more significant investment in investment. That's what we can say in part of the private sector's incentives to solve their problems. What I also want to point out is that the government and a series of measures to increase liquidity and resolution of insolvency have also sought to help the economy is simply being so high that nearly 45 billion registered unpaid accounts have significantly compromised the functioning of the entire economic system. Surely the most effective has given direct tax reprogramme to an economy where more than 7,000 businessmen have used these opportunities and somewhere over 3.2 billion kunas are allowed businesses to refinance liabilities for three years. We have special effects in the part of pre-fashion settlements where in an attempt to save jobs, and at this point there are already over 5,400 legal entities that have applied for a pre-fashion settlement with total debts to the entire system, not only according to the 49 billion tax in the process. Somewhere around 1,400 cases have been dealt with, in which about 18 thousand jobs have been saved and these entities continue to produce. In that part, we gave up over 2 billion of our own income again, and all in an attempt to enable the survival of economic operators and the retention of these jobs. So, when we look at the revenue side then we have to say, 2 years of the government's active policy to reduce tax policies, to make them more competitive, and with a number of additional measures we have tried to fix the liquidity system and enable jobs to be preserved and return to active economic operators somewhere over a thousand entities. So much for the revenue side of the state budget. I will not talk about how much the effects of these 370 million kuna customs duties and excise duties are it is evident that the customs effect of entering Europe is that there are no more customs duties, but on the other hand 470 million less excise duties are again the government's policy to cut a good part of the excise duty because we now share the EU's common market simply want to keep some consumption on the Croatian market without moving to neighbouring countries. Thus, excise policy as well as economic incentives policy through changes in tax policy shows that the government has been struggling with active measures to preserve jobs and to increase economic activity in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the necessary revenues in the state budget. And now a few words about the spending side and the reasons why expenditures are growing in 2013 compared to planned expenditures. So what I want to point out is that the biggest reason for expenditure growth in 2013 is 3.3 billion kuna of debts that are settled by clinical hospital centres. The entire health system that has been run over these years has shown the lack of responsible policy since the health system has spent more than the means provided. And all of the stories about that by reducing as many as 2 index points of health contributions, health care has been at risk because unfortunately the pension and health system is not only covered by income based on salary contributions but also by regular revenues from the state budget. It remains essential that the health system spends more than we think it is necessary to provide for this health system and that the recovery of the health system started in April this year by forming a series of rehabilitation councils and that the recovery of this system unlike those who think it is a pressed button, which only shows how much they don't know what to do that is a process that will last for the whole and next year. Therefore, it is very important to determine where the reasons for these dubiosis are, why we have led the system to the fact that 900 days do not pay economic operators for drugs, for services, or for the supply of electricity, or for the supply of water, and that I do not count. Yes, it's a system that we so designed because it was essential to write the law in 2010 that the payment deadline is 30 and 60 days, but to show by example that we don't even have to pay 900 days. In this year, the government went into rehab with a desire to clearly determine the reasons why we have these dubiousities. And apparently, even the policy that showed that it was important to hire non-medical personnel at every hospital, to spend money on part of non-medical staff, to unrealize business in that part, that at the same time we didn't want to deal with the basics, which is a network of hospitals, a network of departments, so we have unrealized departments, so we have a hospital of 30 to 60 kilometers from each other. All of these are simple dubiosises that need to be resolved and are likely to be resolved during 2014. Because it takes so much to seriously access and what it is to be a network of hospitals and what it is necessary departments and what it is to be filled and what it is to be all services that hospitals need and whether they need to be part of employees or part of services to be paid to the private sector. Therefore, the message to all those who think that the button is managed by such dubiosiss that we have produced for 20 years is then the message will be happy if we solve it by the end of 2014. But we also pay, we spend money, we pay hard work, and so it's just that the clinical hospital centres are different by the way the pay is calculated, that everyone has their own pay system, so we can call it just a mess. And if someone thinks that a mess can be solved in five months as the bankruptcy, or rehabilitation councils function, then it's just a message that they want more riots. Therefore, it will last, and yes, this year probably losing that mess will be a billion kuna. But also a clear message to everyone, it's not just the government of the Republic of Croatia. It's work and responsible people, and that means both the director and the head of the clinic. Because you'll allow one thing to be a doctor, a surgeon, but the one who sits at the executive post will be in charge. Because they need to know what balance sheet positions are, which is a contract with HZZO and how much they can spend. Therefore, 3.3 billion are assured not to interrupt the delivery of drugs, the supply of equipment for the reason that the equipment was not being paid. This is the cost we add to this budget rebalancing which is higher and paid over 6 months. Therefore, we have only just begun to resuscitate the health system and will last a year and that means that we will continue to produce minuses because the recovery will not be spent overnight. But that also means that 2 billion additional funds that we have to provide for county hospitals that we will not say have been organised and spent on what county hospitals have spent on because they need to be held by former, administrative councils and heads of such hospitals. Therefore, at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to settle debts to the economy, to tackle the losses that the disorder has created in health and to implement all necessary changes that no minister has ever wanted. And what I can say, the Ministry of Health with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance will be able to implement all these measures. In addition, what is still characteristic of 2013 is that we had overruns according to some of the items that were in our plan, over billions of kunas for employees, 500 million for pensions, 300 million for employee benefits and about 100 million for social benefits. All of these are the increases we have in relation to the planned funds, so somewhere almost 2 billion more expenditures than we planned. But what we can say is that we've covered these 2 billion with internal redistributions, so with that basis we don't have an increase in expenditure, we don't have an increase in expenditure. So something about these expenses. The government of the Republic of Croatia has spent two years saving on three items, wages, subsidies and material expenditures. When we talk about wages then we have to say that in 2011, the salary was 22.8 billion kuna, 2012. 22.4 billion, so 400 million less in 2012. I only note that in 2012, it was also characteristic of 4% inflation, which means that it is also a much larger amount of wage cuts. And we're expecting 21.7 billion salary this year. So when we compare it to last year it's about 700 million kuna less than last year. So two years in a consecutive cost reduction for employees. And in that part, I believe that at this point, however, the average wage in public services and state services is lower than the Croatian average and that the government has achieved some savings, given that we were otherwise from 2011 above that average. But when we look at the planned items we have a billion kunas more which means who failed to fit into the budget then it's 650 million or 700 million, we'll see by the end of the year, overpaying the salaries in the education system because it's still a system that hasn't passed the reform, rationalization and also a system that's not yet prepared for processing on the central salary account to control the way the payments, the calculations, especially on the additions. And also because of a series of negotiations that we have on a collective agreement, a border agreement, we haven't even solved the issue of transportation with.... Therefore, we have not achieved savings in the Ministry of Education and also when we talk about the Ministry of Interior overruns of nearly 400 million kuna. Therefore, in all other ministries, we have more or less when we talk about the savings achieved and adjusted to achieve the planned size, except for those two ministries. When we talk about pensions, benefits for unemployed and social benefits then we must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia knows that we have huge new expenditures, and these new expenditures are except for health care, except for increased interest and membership in the European Union did not lead the savings policy. Therefore, we have estimated that the pension system is such that we have a very low average pension of 2400 kuna, that 80 pensioners have received below those 2400 and this is not because they have had low earnings but that in the current systems there has been stimulated to push people into retirement at 51 years of average age, which means early pensions and reduced pensions. That's why the government gave up any savings in the pension system. Unfortunately, there was no room for an increase in pensions, but we also had a double indexation of pensions in 2013 and harmonising with the cost of living growth, and that is why we have an increase of 500 million because another indexation was not planned in the budget itself. When we speak of unemployment benefits, the government also estimated that compensation should be granted to all those who remain unemployed because of the jobless crisis and that is the reason that neither there was any savings nor a reduction in compensation. When we talk about social benefits, there was also no savings and there was no reduction in social benefits, yes, there were new criteria, there were cleaning and moving all those who had nothing to do with social benefits such as resellers on green markets who had their incomes and were on many social charges. This was done and initiated by the government, but did not save on citizens who badly needed help, thus neither in the pension system nor in the care of the unemployed nor the socially endangered citizens. Thus, these policies show that nearly 2 billion and increased expenditures relative to the planned funds were later transferred to other savings. When we also talk about saving opportunities, then we have to say that we saved on subsidies because, from 6.5 billion kuna in 2011, we reduced subsidies to 5700 in 2012 and 5600 2013, significant reductions in shipbuilding and agriculture subsidies, but we also paid all the obligations that were paid to the Ministry of Economy when it comes to shipbuilding and agriculture when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, all obligations paid, in 2013 is characterised by the fact that in the first 6 months we have fulfilled all obligations in relation to subsidies. What we can say is that subsidies will continue to fall, given that more and more funding for agricultural subsidies will come from the European Union funds. When we talk about material expenditures, we also see that the government was trying to carry out the savings, so somewhere from 8.7 billion to 8.3 billion reduced the cost side of the material expenditure. Of course, when we look at the expenditures that are growing significantly, then we must say that this is primarily the cost of public debt financing and the takeover of debts in shipbuilding, in railways, in air transport. These are all debts that have been taken over into public debt, so it's just an interest of 7.5 billion somewhere estimated this year above 10 billion, which means an increase of 2.5 billion in two years. These are the costs of funding that will continue to grow because all these deficits that we show will show that interest will be a significant part of our public debt. Therefore, if we look at these 10 billion interest rates in 2013 then essentially by assessing what is a deficit in Croatia, then we have to say that this deficit is the difference between the total deficit and interest of 6 billion, which means we spend 6 billion above income. 6 billion when we speak then enough to say that more than half of it has gone to finance health losses, and enough is mentioned only that in 2013 we have a new cost, which is 1.8 billion for the budget of Europe which will in the future be 3.6, 3.7 billion so these are essentially costs that we can't say that it's so easy to cover because there is no income, and at the same time it's very difficult to control the expenditure side with these new revenues. And, of course, our wish for the Croatian deficit to be around 10 billion in 2013. With such changes on the income and expenditure side, the deficit rises to 5% which is simply risky for the Republic of Croatia because the resolution of this deficit can primarily be in economic growth, but no longer in the economic growth that was otherwise declared for Croatia, which many scientists declare to be consumption, consumption, consumption. With citizens' debts, then it can only be new jobs and new investments. Therefore, a deficit that is large in the Republic of Croatia now arises and the growth of debt, which is why the government must keep special accounts on how to reduce the public debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59113	Thank you very much. We'll move on to replicas. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm really surprised and I'm a little concerned about the fact that you're coming to the Croatian Parliament with a rebalancing of the state budget that means still economic growth this year by 0.2%. So, your projections today on November 26th 2013 are that GDP in Croatia will grow 0.2%. All the results so far in this year show that there will be a fall. All serious analysts, including the latest analysis by the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, say GDP will drop by 0.8% this year. So 0.8%. All serious analysts say that in the third quarter where one of the best tourist seasons ever took place, the record season, that we will also fall, GDP will fall according to expert estimates 0.4% but we will see in a few days and statistics. So today you're telling us that GDP will grow 0.2% on today when it's quite clear and likely that Croatia will achieve a 0.8% drop in GDP this year, which means that ultimately the difference will be 1% of the state budget minus what you're now planning. So, another billion kuna. That's what this is about. I don't believe that you don't read and you don't know what's going on. It seems to me that it's only a public deception. You cannot deceive us, because we follow all data, all relevant data and quite clearly as we warned you at the beginning when you said that Croatian GDP will grow 1.7% this year. Look where you've come today for 0.2 growth, and we'll definitely have a 0.8% drop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59115	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59116	When we talk about economic growth, there are those who believe that economic growth should be linked to consumption. There are those who say that it should be tied to export and that it should be tied to investment. Therefore, the question remains how we lead Croatia's investments, how we run Croatian investments. So let's leave. I agree with many, many with estimates below zero are negative. The government has projected a growth of 0.2 because it is simply possible to achieve this growth on investments, even in 11 months. There is always a question of whether those 0.2 or your 0.8 minus have an impact on revenue. Therefore, the revenues you have on this page are revenues based on possible revenue payments in 2013. The question remains how does anyone observe where we see the source of growth? I'm starting from the fact that there were significant changes in investment in the second half of the year, so let's just let the statistics show the result. But that growth projection won't have one percent difference on the income side, because that would mean three and a half billion lower incomes to you. There won't be three and a half billion lower incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59117	Gordan Jandrokovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you've been very honest today. You weren't attacking anyone, you were talking about your own failures, your own failures. I'll quote you. So, you said, "we haven't been able to predict the income well. GDP growth forecasts have not been realised. Our desire to be a 10 billion deficit has not been achieved." And that's correct of you, honestly. You admitted your own failure, you admitted you didn't accomplish what you plotted. You weren't accusing anyone else, and I think it was okay this time. However, I will now rely on this past question by colleagues Matusic and your answer. You say growth is going to be maybe 0.2%. Everyone says no, it's going to be minus 0.7 to 1, like who. You say maybe it'll be 0.2 let's see. And say now and what if it's not 0.2% if you're going to be carrying some kind of responsibility like you've never been held responsible for completely wrong estimates in 2012. You remember plus 1.8 growth and we end up with minus 2. In 2013, you started with 1.7, you'll probably end up with a minus 0.7. So now at the 11th month, 26.11. you say is going to be plus 0.2. We all know he won't. I'm asking if you're willing to take responsibility for the wrong assessment. For rebalancing, your responsibility is not our responsibility. You projected certain incomes and expenses, they didn't come true. So my question is responsibility. When the minister admits his failure, when he says I failed at what I was up to, then he must answer. The first two years you haven't responded, I wonder if you're ready to answer now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59119	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59120	My dear Mr. Representative, I wonder why it should be responsible for economic growth projections. Well, I don't think that's what it's supposed to be. The projections are used to see if there are opportunities in Croatia for this growth. What makes us different? That your projections were pushing citizens into consumption so today they're citizens without pay, so today they're citizens without the ability to repay credit. Were you responsible for that? Maybe in the election. So when we talk about projections it's always a question of what someone expects, I still think that the potential of the Croatian economy is that I can invest and I'll never give up, ever. That's what we're different about. You see Croatia as a country where only spending, destroying the state budget, creating a public debt and not responding, responding to the elections. Well, you'll let me answer with the government in those elections. But when we talk about 2012 with your 15 billion unreasonable public debt deficits, spending for no reason has been reduced in 2012 to 10 billion. We've been trying very hard to fix everything you've left behind. Well, now you know the debts in the railroad, the debts in health care, the debts in air traffic that they're guilty of these minuses. It's all our fault that we felt that economic growth would still improve this situation. So leave the election to talk about our guilt. And what I can say as long as I repair your damage, your destruction of the Croatian future, then I think I can boast of the effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59121	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, this rebalancing is just a confirmation of what was done wrong on the income side and what wasn't done on the expenditure side. And this rebalancing, given the moment it's brought in, is nothing more than that folk thing, let's write down what I've spent. And if you didn't talk so much about what was done in the past because I said there are fortunately documents that were adopted in this House and we can talk about it then you'd probably refer to the Fiscal Responsibility Act and at least mention what sanctions,... for you because of an assessment rather than under the Fiscal Responsibility Act, those who have spent more than this House has, and by adopting the budget, allowed someone to spend as much as that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You yourself admitted that certain costs were done anyway. And now I'd like to remind you of that famous one, don't scare the people. When we talked about what would happen to VAT when entering the EU, what would happen to VAT due to the reduction in catering, when we said that there were not enough planned funds for pensions and when we said that given what is in the working legislation without radical changes that unfortunately there would be a pay break. Here it is, the end of the 11th month, all that was agreed and one year ago when the budget was adopted and the budget was rebalanced. About who's left behind I'd very much like to put that on paper once. But, Mr. Minister, if you can still say some things in 2013 in 2014, unfortunately you can't call on that, unfortunately, because 2014 is explicitly the result of yours, not your own, but your government's work or your worklessness. The other thing, there are deficits like this and there's what someone said for a while, but I repeat this rebalancing is the result of what was done badly on the income side and what wasn't done on the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59123	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59124	Thank you very much. Well, the respected ministers in the 6th month when it seemed that the deficit had reached the total projected for the whole year, you said that it was because you paid the agricultural debt and announced then that there would be no rebalancing. At the 10th month when everyone was already clear that the rebalancing would have to be, you said it was because of the debt, which you pay in health care. The day after your statement, the prime minister said it was neither because of agriculture nor for health care but because you failed to save 2 billion kunas on public sector salaries. Those are the words of the leaders. You said today that all excise duties were reduced. We've been testifying for the past two years that they've all grown. And tobacco and gasoline and cars and alcohol and coffee. That's what we're witnessing. And you've admitted, indirectly, that your tax policy hasn't achieved any results in two years because that's what the surplus funds are. These 2 billion more result exclusively in the introduction of order. In 2006, there was a Hungarian government of left orientation that was replaced, whose prime minister said we lied to you all day and all night just to stay in power. So I ask you, Minister, do you lie to us all day and all night just to stay in power?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59125	What can I tell you about this last colleague? Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59126	Mr. Representative, you're telling the truth when you say you're growing excise duties. The excise duties on tobacco and on motor gasoline are the result of an agreement with the EU on our member, but we are talking about other excise duties, on luxury, on drinks, on alcohol, and all of this falls because all of this is adjusted for citizens not to go to another country. Therefore, sir, do not deceive this people. EU membership is in favour of you, too. And you were the ones who knew that excise duties in that part had to be done, so there is something called EU membership and don't deceive Croatian citizens. This government didn't raise them, we didn't raise them all together because we decided to join. And you know how to handle the nonsense you left behind, solve the health care you left with 6 billion minus. Yeah, that's what we have to explain to the citizens that you've been deluding them regardless of what you've left the government, but it needs to be solved. And we're just trying to explain, that you can't push the button to solve everything that you haven't done, or health care, or management. Well you saw you started management, so you're jumping to age, Istra wants her county, Dubrovnik apologizes to the region, etc. Do not deceive the citizens, therefore we do not need authority, but we need to do everything you are not to make Croatia better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59127	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're obviously aware of the situation and you're at the very end of a case of concern about what's perfectly normal. I would say that citizens are not interested at this point in who left what and who did what wrong, but that they are interested in how to do better. You said in your statement that the private economy did not launch investments, but you also said that incomes were growing but not as you wished. I'll say it like this. That the government is in charge of creating a positive atmosphere, and in a positive atmosphere, things are moving, investment is moving, consumption is moving, and much better is starting to live. The fact is that since 1.1. the VAT rate has been introduced on basic living foods and it should not have been since 1.1. so I am interested in whether you have made any analysis of how much impact it has had on the increase in VAT rates on basic living foods and whether you have compared how much money has gone beyond the border, by entering Croatia into the EU because they say that here in the BIH is about 20% cheaper that basic diet and that our citizens are mass crossing the border to bread, milk and basic things. Money goes, citizens more expensive in Croatia. So I would put it this way that simply this tax repression on citizens has not yielded results, and the worst part is that you accuse private entrepreneurship of your own failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59129	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59130	There's no need to accuse private entrepreneurs, but we're telling the facts. If you have allowed this private entrepreneurship to reprogram its debts to the state, then 7,000 of these entities, contracts three-year repayment period for these debts, if 5 thousand of them submit a claim for a pre-profit settlement save 18,000 jobs, you negotiate with them 19 billion obligations how to restructure them from banks, businesses and to government debts, then you are actively working with them. And it's no problem at all to solve it, just means that the government is actively working with economic operators, solving indivisibility, inventing new ways to solve it, trying and finance you know 10 billion kuna from the HABOR budget is given for loans, almost 60% for investments. So he's actively fighting how this economy is restructured by its failures from earlier periods, how to keep jobs, and how to start exporting to Europe because our growth, we're working on domestic consumption. Why? Because we have a reduction in salaries in state and public services, because we have a low wage, we have a large number of unemployed, but in exports and investments. Well, that's what we're actually saying. It didn't work out. And why is that? So because unlike many of you push a button, we say two years should be invested to return the economy to where it was in 2008, two years of bloody work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59131	Thank you. Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've spent twenty minutes explaining why this rebalancing is happening. These reasons can be reduced to one sentence, because of the wrong economic policy of this incompetent government. That's the only reason for this rebalancing. But I must say, I am pleased with your exposure because you have finally admitted that no structural reform has ever been done by you in health care, not by you, but by you. You said that health care is making a new debt, it's true, a government document that says that in 2012, HZZO made a billion 348 million new debt, hospitals a billion and 500. So let these young people listen up, just a year of 2 billion kunas of new debt, it's a government document. And this is the government's first half of this year's new debt of 300 billion, a total of 4 billion 200 million new debt. Thank you for admitting that you have raised 3.3 billion kuna credits to cover your debt and incompetence of those who are today managing the health ministry. But it doesn't matter that much, it matters that you don't have any money, but it's more important than you insult people, that you insult doctors and I won't let you do it. Minister Rajko Ostojić will allow you to do so, but I will not allow it. You say someone gave you pressure, I won't give the doctors eight kunas on alert. Leonard Patrill is replaced by a respected doctor, transplants the liver on alert for three hours, listen to the young ones upstairs, and gets 24 kuna for it. And this government says he doesn't get, steals 24 kunas and drives him out like you young people. And don't you, Leonardo Patrill, go outside or you youngsters, hold out for a little while longer if this repression won't last long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59133	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59134	Well, good for us while he's telling the former Minister of Truth. You know when we say that hospitals are 900 days long, then count a little what's 900 days. How old are you? For over three years, it's all the debts Mr. Secretary has left irresponsiblely. You haven't solved the system, and now you say press the button and we'll cut the hospitals immediately, reorganize the suits. What were you doing, Mr. Minister, that's what I'm asking you? Well, you see, what I'm doing to you, I don't care what you said because you were a failed minister who left health care with debts. You left a system like this behind. What we say this year is that we've introduced rehabilitation councils in all hospitals, this year we start with spending cuts and hospital reorganization and suit reorganisation and 2014 we'll finish it. The term of office of one government lasts, Mr. Minister, for four years. I'm just asking you what you were doing? You're telling the truth, you're telling numbers that don't stand. And Mr. Minister, you signed the contracts that doctors can sit in Zagreb, can go to London and get prepared, that's what you did, sir, you signed such a contract, you signed the duty. Well, it's the chief of staff with the surgeon's salary. Mr. Ministers should pay for work and every doctor when operating should get his job price. And I wouldn't be talking about the price of the work you've arranged, sir. Mr. Minister... You've signed collective contracts that don't work well, you're a health worker, and we're gonna fix it. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59135	Thank you very much. A colleague of Milinović's. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, a fundamental observation as we have already heard from this budget rebalancing that it is based on the wrong assessment of growth, but I more than that wrong assessment must tell you the time when the Government and the Ministry of Finance are proposing a rebalancing of the state budget. Here it is proposed at the end of the fiscal and calendar year when nothing can change more than to realize that we lack income, that we have an excess of expenditure and that the deficit of the state budget has grown tremendously. and that means when nothing the government in the rebalancing can change or has no vision or has no capacity or what is the worst government lacks the will to change anything. Because if she wanted to change something then this rebalancing would have been proposed either before summer or after summer if there was still enough time to change anything in Croatian society. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, is this the kind of rebalancing time and time of his proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and also the budget that we're going to discuss, I hope tomorrow, is the Government calling on the International Monetary Fund in Croatia to fix and correct the situation in Croatian society instead of the Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59137	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59138	Yes, I can agree with you that in the 11th month we can propose this rebalancing we can really very little expect that something can change, but when you talk about the IMF when you talk about the European Commission and then be kind enough to read their reports, please be kind enough and read it and you will see that they will certainly admit that unlike you who are only telling the truth which times we have not implemented the reforms. Interestingly, the IMF says they have been implemented and the European Commission says so. So they were carried out in part. There's still a series of things to do. That's why there's a four-year term, Mr. Representative. You know you often deal with theories, you know what's best for the government in the first year of office to carry out reforms, so it can be more successful in the elections. So that's what I can tell you is a valid theory for a stable economy, a stable country. The Croatian country is in crisis, destroyed thanks to your party's policy, destroyed, by not implementing any reforms by your party, by your party, you have not implemented any reforms. And this government will spend four years implementing reforms, four years. and what we very clearly recommend the interest of this government is to implement reforms and bring work to the state, regardless of how we pass the elections. Thus, four years of ongoing changes and work from year to year. Therefore, you will be witnessing reforms that still need to be implemented to stabilise the spending side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59139	Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59140	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, it's a good thing you admitted that you misjudged today. I'm not talking about reform. So we entered the European Union this year, so the government, I've been sitting here for 10 years, has really done a lot of reforms to get to that end. All previous governments and you have to admit it. But it's a good thing you admitted to the Croatian teachers, that you misjudged their salaries. I warned you here that you'd be missing for wages, and today you said that, they're missing out on salary education. But not the ministers because we haven't implemented major reforms. Do not hope that teachers will have to clean classrooms in the future and that defecologists, educators, will eventually cook children a warm meal. Because it can only be at this point some kind of reform in education and savings. We don't even have professional associates in education, and we're missing a teacher. Or you'll end schools all over smaller places and we'll stay so centralised that the kids will travel again for 30, 40 kilometers and that same government and that same budget will cost you. I'm really sorry that you touched the county hospitals and the rehabilitation you won't spend on the ministers, I'm telling you the way it's being implemented right now. No matter how much you think. You said, let the accounts be made by the heads and the board of directors. On one board of directors, I'll tell you on one of the heads of the Sisak hospital that you won't do it. In 2005, when SDP's government took over the Sisak hospital, it was in plus 3 million and 500 thousand kuna. Now it's down to 30 million, almost 30 million kuna. Imagine, this same principal, this same government because of consistency and because of the success that he managed to do so much minus for 8 years, has re-appointed the government as a recovery director. Don't do that and please don't reward your staff in that way. This has been a real precedent, under such reforms, you'll achieve nothing like that. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59141	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59142	And here I was always able to tell you what a reform capacity is in Croatia. As you can see, you are against every reform. No problem, no problem, only reform is necessary. Therefore, it will be calculated whether small schools are sustainable economically or not. And whether something's gonna change with bigger schools. Because Croatian citizens have to pay for your idea of small schools. Also, you know, at every school you have an accountant, both a liquidator and a secretary and all that. We can talk about it. You wouldn't even want to talk about county hospitals about how it's all been hired. Therefore, it certainly needs to be changed, and it is very much to be reformed. But your story of personnel is one thing, but the government must have a plan and it must set out clearly how reforms will be implemented, which is, unfortunately, what you haven't done so far and you will see in 2014 will be implemented. As you can see, I have problems with the Tax Law because I am changing and reforming, and I see that you are not happy and that you do not support such reforms. My dear Madam MPs, this government will carry them out. Why? Citizens of Croatia and businessmen have no money to pay for irrational organisations. And that's going to change. So as we started with the IRS, now you're going to have the judiciary, you're going to have state administrations, you're going to have education, you're going to have health care. In 2014 a lot, a lot of changes and we'll see which side you're on. Probably the opposite. By this we differ, someone will also be responsible for reforms to try to reduce the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59143	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59144	Dear Minister Linic, you said I was probably thinking, I guess by thinking of the MPs, someone that could be handled by the crisis by pressing the button, the arrows or the button any way you want. We know you don't manage a crisis like that, but you don't even manage a crisis with incompetent personnel. You used to talk about hospital reform. It is the clinical hospital of Dubrava that is an example of how you manage the crisis. You brought in a man who can't solve problems. But now you've just said, we've just begun to resuscitate the health system in half the mandate. It's half the term now. I guess not, if the opposition or part of the opposition or the people thought that when you came to press the button, many would want it, I wish I could get rid of these things. Looks like the government thought it would push the button because it hasn't done these things in two years. He's late as he is late with the budget rebalance. And you yourself have now said that it is not a happy solution to bring about a budget rebalancing at the end of the 11th month where almost nothing can be done in a month. Then the question is, it's actually a state record of why this budget rebalance. And for what reason, the question of why the reforms were not launched at the beginning of the term of office. For two years, you've been preparing for power, for power, for the coming of power. Two years ago, before the elections, it was known that the Kukurik coalition would win because both the HDZ situation and HDZ lost power because it did not deserve to rule further, but then expected you to start reforms immediately. Unfortunately, reforms in late times and reforms are not just about paying debts. The reform is said to be an act of re-creation, of change, of changing some structure to improve. It's not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59145	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59146	I can accept your criticism that we could have been faster. It's your right to think so. But watch out, all the hospitals analyze, set up dubiosis, try very clearly to change the structure of management, set up a Sanitation Council, on the other hand order studies that say what a new master plan is, how to reorganize hospitals, which is every hospital for itself, which is a surplus of unnecessary people employed in non-medical staff, how to resolve them, where with them. Yeah, all that takes time. We spent this whole year just on those documents. We should have had them before the election, so I'd like to see which party has the money to finance such serious projects. These are all documents that cost huge money and ask for time. Therefore, in 2013, all these documents were produced, there is an implementation in 2014. It's your right to criticize us whether we're efficient enough or not, but the message we're going to rehab, to reorganize health care, to health care that must be much, much more efficient than ever before. We will spend 2013, 2014 to change that, regardless of all your resistances. But you must also know, one is an expert in cardiology or in another medical activity, and another is a man who manages the system. This man who manages the system also has a responsibility, not medically but principally, and in that part everyone has to keep accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59147	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, according to HINA's announcement that I saw this morning, a meeting of the Economic and Social Council is being held, among other things, to discuss the rebalancing of the budget that we are discussing here today. So first of all, I think it is not good that the Economic and Social Council has not had a chance to say its opinion before, so your partners, or partners, all of us, employers, trade unions, what they think about the rebalancing of the budget on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. However, I have reported first and foremost because, explaining the changes and additions to the budget this morning, saying that the reduction in income was of course the biggest reduction in VAT, so billions and 600 million kuna, but as a reason, you have almost exclusively instructed Croatia to join the European Union, so also a new way of calculating, etc. On the one hand. And on the other hand, the cost submergement, so the fact that for employees we have to separate more than a billion kunas through this rebalance says that you didn't plan well, and that's the topic that we also need to talk about today. In fact, the entry into the European Union was certain in mid-2011 on 1 July 2013, and finally on 9 December 2011, when we signed the accession agreement. Therefore, it was known what was waiting for us on July 1st 2013 and about the reflection of the fact that we are becoming a member of the European Union on VAT accounting as well as of course on customs duties and everything else that was related to this was known, but also how much we have to pay the membership fee was known long ago, so two years ago. So you didn't plan well, that's a fact, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59149	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59150	Madam Representative, I agree with you and I have said in my statement that we have misjudged how much we will lose on VAT when it comes to entering the European Union. Our estimates ranged from about 900 million kuna to the loss of the 8th month, reaching a billion and 600. Therefore, wrong planning and therefore lower income based on that part. When we talk about the second part, it's an unreal economic growth, so wrongly planned, misjudged. So we planned how much we'd lose, but obviously we didn't expect so much, so significant, and that's exactly what we have to see just now how we control tax collection because it's obvious that we still have some records that aren't right for us because we've come different from construction work, so we don't charge taxes per done, so we just see big, huge changes here too. Thus, a change in the system that is neither well affected by the plan but a change in the system that suggests that there may be some illegality. The enormously needed work of the Tax Administration which will need to determine what is one and what is the other in 2014. The IRS will try to level everything they have. But I agree with you, misjudged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59151	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, in your argument, you mentioned, here it is already here and repeatedly mentioned the decline of VAT revenue 1.6 billion for entering the European Union, so this entry obviously surprised you, or perhaps you didn't expect it, or perhaps something should have happened to it, or perhaps you're unhappy that we have even completed the negotiations to join the European Union, so now you have a problem. However, I would not say that it is quite right, that it is only because of the entry into the European Union. And what about the decline in consumption, which is with the drop in purchasing power due to price increases, the rise in unemployment and the overall growth of poverty. These are not the reasons why VAT revenues fell despite fiscalisation and the increase in rate. Furthermore, you said that the profit tax is 900 million kuna due to reinvested profits. So you're saying that private entrepreneurs invested because you're saying that the profit tax drop is due to reinvested profits. In the second part, when you talked about incentives for the economy, you mentioned 4.5 billion effects on the economy, and here you accused the private economy of not investing. So, agree on what's true then in your argument whether the private economy invests or doesn't invest. At one point you say that 900 million tax cuts are due to the fact that entrepreneurs have a relief, and on the other hand you accuse them of not investing despite the fact that you have made it possible for them to make it easier and what quality measures you have made possible for them to grow entrepreneurial activities. And on the other hand, of course, we can see that those numbers don't exactly fit your entire argument. One more question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59153	No more questions. Thank you. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59154	Well, it's obvious that fellow MPs that we differ in terms of the economic situation and, yes, you were also the minister of government in charge of that economy. You haven't taken much action to take care of that economy. Because, you know, up to 45 billion blocked funds, unpaid funds between economies simply don't solve imposed economic problems in the crisis is why this government has to invest so much in that economy right now. That's what we're different about. You didn't do your part of the work you were supposed to do. And on the other hand, let's do a little review of the Profit Tax Act, so you'll see that we don't think that money should just be invested in investment, but we need to keep it in capital. You know, the biggest problem of the Croatian economy that we have to solve is insolvency, insolvency. This economy, thanks to huge losses, invested its capital, the capital of banks and the capital of the state because it did not pay taxes. She invested in apartments, business premises, projects, land and all that now stands frozen and untapped. It needs to be settled, because it's lost money. One part we write off, banks write off but the problem is capital in these companies. Therefore, reinvested profit does not mean investment. We're trying to say lost a lot of time because we're dealing with their insolvency and inequity, we're actively running politics, we're spending government money on it, unlike you, Mr. Minister, because you didn't do it. And now we have a situation where there is no investment in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59155	Thank you very much. And the last replica of Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I'll only refer to that segment when it comes to agricultural payments, when it comes to support for heated cultures. Here's an example. What I'm about to say is the truth that can be checked. Here I am personally working as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, working as much as I do, let the people evaluate it. But two years ago, I entered the VAT system, the O.P.G. I had 13 acres of sunflower, 12 acres of wheat. On the sunflower I got, I made 160,000 kunas, on wheat 17. I've paid the state budget of 131,000 kuna so far that VAT, which is a profit tax. And there's three thousand zero-seven kuna left. Order of the IRS at Slavonski Brod, block him. If I paid 99.9 of my commitment last year, block it. I've settled all my obligations and that 3057 kuna. But I will survive because I have a solid salary here for Croatian proportions. But that Croatian farmer who lives exclusively from agricultural production, from milk, sales of pigs, beef, etc. He's been on his knees a long time. He can't survive. I stop doing this job, I settle all my debts, I close the O.P.G., and I see with the earth. I have zero states of state, zero, in no form of availability. Everything is 1/1 of my brothers, sisters, dads, mine, etc. So why do something that you know in advance that you will be, that it will bring you a loss and I've got the support of 9660 kuna, and I'm supposed to get another 23. I wanted to stay in government debt for 23, so let's see what happens. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59157	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59158	Now I ask where we live? But obviously not in the same state, because you and you similar entrepreneurs had the right to all their obligations to contract with the state. For three years if you can't pay your dues, you could have refinanced for three years. We've renewed this procedure three times. Three times in two years. So every entrepreneur, interestingly, 7,000 of them took advantage of that possibility, 7,000 of them, means active policy. However, speaking of the OPG, I think we've just completed the possibility that citizens of their debts can also negotiate with the state for three years. Therefore, the active policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to help entrepreneurs and individuals and citizens carry out their debts towards Croatia. 17000 citizens signed contracts to refinance their debts, 17000. The truth is we're a little surprised because in hundreds of thousands of these, but it's a possibility, it's a possibility. So that's what we're different about. But now there's always them I haven't agreed with the state but I won't pay. I'll decide how I behave. We're telling you, it can't be such a mess in Croatia, it can't be such a mess. You have to pay your dues. And there are clear answers for you. The government allows them to regulate their obligations, but that you will decide whether or not it is something we call a mess. And that mess in Croatia can't. And then there are clear messages for anyone who wants to work, pay their obligations, they will be able to work in Croatia without a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59159	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is on behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59160	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with their associates. The rebalancing is, according to expert books and lexicons, a balance of the financial plan or budget. Balance should be balanced when balancing makes sense. This late rebalancing is just a mere administrative measure, recording the situation without the possibility of substantial change and without any real balance. How unserious and irresponsible the rebalance illustrates and the fact that the budget proposal for next year is bypassing it. In particular, the proposal for a 2014 budget and projections of the 2015 and 2016 budget are based on data before the construction of the rebalancing facility. So budgets for next year and projections for the next two years were made on some imaginary numbers and data. At the wrong estimates. However, the draft budget is not consistent either. However, part of the budget proposal respects the right state of affairs, lower income, higher expenditure and almost 60% higher deficit than planned. One place mentions the government budget deficit of 4.8% in 2013, and on the other planned and unachieved 3% deficit. In July 2013, Minister Linic holds a press release telling the public that the budget is worse than planned. The biggest drop is, says Mr. Linic, in profit tax revenues. At that time, the budget deficit was higher than planned for 5 billion kuna. So the budget deficit in 6 months has reached 11.4 billion kuna or 3.4% of GDP. The rebalancing was then expected in September. But in September's thread of rebalancing even though the finance minister is talking about a deficit in the state budget of 13.3 billion kuna. The deficit, says Mr. Linic, should not be increased on October 7th. The budget is announced for 15 to 20 days at the latest, so at the end of October. Of the planned 10 billion deficits increased by another 6 billion, Minister Linic was wrong. Two and a half months ago, ministers and prime ministers and we heard it today, so the government promised a 0.2% growth that you would recall when the Jadranka Kosor government in one quarter called it a statistical error. This government has not received a growth that could be treated as a statistical error. We're going to have an unmistakable decline of almost 1%. And what's the state of the state register at the end? He was recently recapitalised by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. State finances will end in 2013 with less than 16.3 billion kuna or 4.8% of GDP, which is significantly more than planned. When external funds and local self-government are included in the account, the budget deficit in 2013 goes up to as much as 5.5% of GDP. The revenues will therefore be lower by 2.9 billion kuna in 2013 compared to the plan and will ultimately amount to just over 110.5 billion kuna. The expenditure will be higher than planned for 3.2 billion and will total 126.8 billion. Why is it less income? Due to a one-time reduction in VAT caused by a different calculation of EU-adapted standards. It's about a billion and 600 million kuna. The budget revenue is also lower due to reduced incomes due to the profit tax. In fact, the state gives up the profit tax if the profit is reinvested. It's about 890 million kunas left to the economy. And why are there higher expenditures? Because of this, says Minister Linic and President Milanovic, a health recovery. Taxes paid not the bonds but paid those who paid taxes so the taxpayers paid the restitution cost 3.3 billion kuna. Had it not been for health expenditure, the central budget deficit would have been below 3% of GDP, according to the government. Of course, there could have been at least 2 billion kuna in the health account, but assuming that the health contribution did not decrease by 2 index points from 15 to 13%. We have warned, and we warn the government today that if we want to see how much a healthy nation, whether we want poor patients not to die because of unsupervised medical care or because of poor inadequate medications, whether we want patients not to bring sheets, toilet paper, pajamas, food or medicines back to 15% and really reform the health system. But not by putting themselves in key places in hospitals like that, but capable personnel. Payments, pensions, unemployment and social benefits, as we have heard from Minister Linic, have increased by 1.9 billion kuna. Of course, the problem in this for Croatia is the economic power of the over-inflated spending party, but there is an even greater expenditure on the revenue side. Little did very little seem to trigger industrial production, not only because of weak management capacities, with no significant new values in the last two decades, but also because of poor climate, depression, fear of bankruptcy, black forecasts and potent pessimism. Instead of buying spending, they encourage consumption and consumption of production and job creation, Croatian citizens place money in foreign banks and finance industries in foreign countries. All the successful countries pulled out of the crisis in a way that encouraged personal and many public spending, reduced taxes, and thus created an optimistic pro-industry climate. After all, Franklin Roosevelt, 80 years ago, won a major depression in the U.S. not by forcing people to save, but by encouraging consumption, by public spending. In his opening speech, Roosevelt said in March 1933 for the development of either economic, political, democratic anthological and so simple sentences. Fear is the only thing we have to be afraid of. Croatian citizens are trying to get more and more scared, but I will talk more about this topic tomorrow in the 2014 budget debate. The Kukuriku coalition has had every prerequisite for success, Croatia has entered NATO and the government does not have to worry about the country's security. We entered the EU, which has been a more decade-old dream for many. So we jumped on the train of one of the world's three most powerful economies, and because of that, we should dust from the elan and rush to meet prosperity. There should be as much good atmosphere around us as there's never been fog in London. About a good atmosphere, as the Londoners said, we should be able to hang an umbrella, and we are flocking to depression, to ideological divisions imposed by impotence, ignorance and bad intentions, to sell out everything anyone wants to buy, former and present rulers. We rush into the dark, in pre-industrial times, into slave-owned hopelessness. We are skilled industrialists in the production of affairs, excellent finders of cause for ideological wars and masters in creating gaps between citizens. In the permanent psychosis of war, people share intolerant headquarterss, self-informed guardians of Croatian statehood and intolerant to the dialogue of unprepared self-invited political leaders. Instead of the established standard, loans are raised as a substitute for ongoing reforms. Because if we were able to reform anything, that we were able to cut at least 50 units of local self-government that don't work for either the mayor and the mayor's salaries, that we were able to create preconditions for foreign investment, which translates into winning the war with bureaucracy, we wouldn't be raising loans under unfavourable conditions today. Instead of reforming, politicians in power suit coalition partners, investing in voters with messages, everything will remain as old and we will continue to have according to the number of residents the most massive local self-government and state administration, you will be hungry but you will have your mayors, mayors and mayors, not twenty of them, but if it takes forty, they need chairs and your citizens' garbage containers as a substitute for Swedish tables. There are no reforms in the health care sector, unless the reforms count on the recovery of hospital budgets and the setting up of similar directors. Two years ago, you bombed people with slogans like this: "In plus three salaries and not minus to pay you!" And second of all, take it easy, pal. What Minister Linic is talking about today, but about the minuses paid for by families of 700 thousand, half of Croatia, but they are not obliged because they are obliged, because they have no business, they are obliged because when they work to get a church, pensioners are obliged because they cannot put an end to the end. In 2011, it was our job to secure your work from the political stage, and what you provided us with, unserious rebalancing and unrealistic budgetary plans based on last year's unrealistic plans. Earlier, Minister Linic said who could start reforms immediately at the start of his mandate, they do not have the parties so much money that such extensive necessary preparations could be made in the opposition. Poland withdrew the most money from EU funds because the opposition party has been preparing for power for two years in the opposition to prepare programmes when it came to power, it has made a major boom unlike this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59161	We move on to replicas, first respected counterpart Rajedinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59162	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the chairman. Well, if we had an old Rules of Procedure, then this would be my name, the correction of an incorrect quote. Namely, I will quote three corrections of the incorrect allegations made by my colleague Vuksic, I would not enter into the semi-limisation around the slave owners and similar qualifications he has raised here. First, he said that this, that the next budget is therefore based on the real budget for 2013 and not on the rebalancing. Well, fellow Vuksic, it's impossible, until we adopt this rebalancing committee, so it's impossible to make a column the way you imagined it and of course the government planned the budget and projection for next year based on real projections and based on this rebalancing that's ahead of us because it's their calculation and we're finally going to bring it, it couldn't have been in our papers. Secondly, you falsely spoke about Mr. Linic's statements at the 9th month when you said he said the deficit was not said to be greater. In fact, he said exactly that deficit compared to 3 billion and 300 million kunas will be higher by the spending side for that amount. And that promise or that statement has certainly kept the spending parties at the level of the deficit due to health, and it is about paying debts from previous years. It's estimated time to pay those debts this year. And the third incorrect quote, and it also concerns health care to finally conclude it once. So you also said again that the reduction in health care contributions caused a lack in the health system. That's not true. The budget for health care is equal to the previous year even 100 or 200 million so the resources for health care are equal to the only ones we've charged the economy, so the economy is down 13% of the gross labour price is reduced to disbursement the economy from health contributions, and that difference has been compensated from other tax revenues among other things and value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59163	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59164	Mr. Rajenovic, you think you've corrected incorrect allegations, but I'm not any correction to an incorrect quote. I'm the only one asking if you've read the draft budget. So if you've read the draft budget then find that you'll find places where the data doesn't match, read it. It says in the draft budget, and we'll see what we adopt, maybe you won't adopt, maybe you won't raise your hand for it. After all, 60% is a greater deficit than planned. Is that a fact? It's a fact that Mr. Linic, that I was talking about, I quoted exactly what Mr. Linic wrote in the media, I can't help it, I wasn't at all presses to write exactly what Mr. Linic was but it wasn't denied in the media. When we talk about reducing the health contribution by 2 index points, we know what you've done and we're opposed to whether you've done it with the exception that you're going to relieve the economy and that in the economy you're going to be employed on the basis of that redundancy of the army's economy. The army of people is the only one, we're saying they won't hire a single man based on it, the army of people is the only one at the Employment Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59165	The second replica is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, had nothing happened here by accident, but what happened on both the income and the expenditure side had to happen. So all that's now said is that some extreme on both the income and the expenditure side is also being warned when it comes to budgeting and rebalancing. Why? Well, because the Croatian budget is so closed that if you don't take some radical measures, you can't have a significant impact on the spending area, and that didn't happen. And that's why the expense side is like this. You may have an impact on the income side, but if you set a flat tax policy and if you bring some things in the package. But if you bring from time to time, you don't know what the effect will be, so what happens happens to you. However, some of Croatia's entry into the EU seems to have happened by chance. It was quite clear at the end, and we passed in this House a law on value added tax that there would be a delay in tax on added value compared to what happened in previous years, i.e. is no longer paid on imports but only at the time of sale. And according to some estimates, what traffic was over customs, and all that said was that it was going to be about a billion thousand, a billion 800 kuna, 100 more up or down is irrelevant, but you can't miss 800, 900 million. The same tax debate not on tourism but on hospitality, a lower rate on tourism has been introduced long ago. At the same time, you were told if you knew what the effect would be and it would negatively reflect on the budget. Why? Well, because many caterers couldn't recover the tax they paid on purchases compared to sales because so many rates were reduced. So it's not like it's all the same to cut from 25 to 10% and confirm that something that hasn't logically been done is to amend these laws. That's why I'm saying nothing happened by accident. This is something due to the closure of the Croatian budget, something that was to be expected and what had to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59167	Time. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59168	You said in your first sentence that nothing happened that wasn't expected. So I personally expected a lot more, I expected the state to launch the works it promised, that the state would be the one to announce again, remember that first the state announced public so-called. Public works is a Croatian new deal and then it is said to remember how many workers will be employed in energy buildings. That's not what happened. After that, it was said that the state will not deal with investment, investment that it will leave it to the private sector. After that, she was disappointed with the private sector and now again says the state will start its investment in industrial production. So we expected to do so in the first half of 2012 as announced, but it did not happen. One of the biggest problems is quite certain that you are rightly indifferent tax policy, i.e. ad hoc tax policy. I remember the debate when you warned about exactly the problems that would arise with the delay in VAT collection, however, those warnings were not respected at the time. This catering tax, too, has certainly been warned by many economic experts that this food tax should not be reduced. Nor did lipa spill from saving that tax into new jobs or to reduce the price of drinks or meals, all of it went into the pockets of those who did business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59169	The new replica is Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59170	Thank you very much. Well, look today, you, too, in your debate, have found that there are no structural reforms. I think that's where we found a consensus with Health Minister Linic. I mean, I said rightly, to the Minister of Health, he obviously manages his health. Look at the two big, today's statement, actually yesterday at... two large public systems in Croatia that employ and the most people in health and education, so Ostojić and Jovanovic cannot hope to get more money as long as the funds currently available are not being treated rationally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is this proof that here in two large systems in health care and education there has been no structural, no initial reform of health care, these two systems. The minister confessed today, remember the health debts we'll cover from VAT, VAT debts. And today admits or tax on real estate, today admits that VAT does not grow planned, VAT revenues do not grow planned and the real estate tax is of course not introduced. But you know what, it's not all bad, it's not all bad. Minister Linic reminds me of Einstein, believe it or not. He says Einstein didn't make a mistake but I found thousands of reasons why I can't get to a goal. These two years, Minister Linic has found thousands of reasons in his mistakes that he cannot reach the goal and this government. I'll just mention here's how much time it allows me. The increase in VAT cannot solve the situation, the reduction of contributions cannot solve the emerging situation, the reduction of incentives cannot be solved by the crisis, the taxation of dividends cannot solve the crisis, retrograde taxation of dividends cannot solve the crisis, real estate tax cannot solve the crisis A senseless recovery of the health system cannot solve the crisis [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Just to realize that the sale of Croatian insurance and Croatian postal bank and highway cannot be solved by the crisis, only that... [[Intruder: Thank you the time has come.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59171	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you very much. The replica matches Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59172	Dear colleague, first of all, here's what I'm going to reflect on is the last thing you said and that's the VAT increase, which will be resolved by increasing VAT. Well, the VAT increase has been proven by many governments that have come out of the crisis, the crisis is deepening. Here, several times we have led controversy with Minister Linic, who disagrees, believes that by transferring the burden to citizens and more and less citizens, they can bear that burden, more and more groaning under that burden, the crisis is deepening. For what? Because citizens no longer have money, they can no longer buy, when they no longer buy, there is no more need for production, no more need for jobs. And when there are no jobs we know that it's the biggest problem not to fill the state budget and it's a closed circle. The VAT increase puts out a small fire, but there's gonna be an even bigger fire. And we are sinking deeper and deeper into the crisis, which is evident that that VAT-enhancing policy that was established at the very beginning of the term of the Kukuriku coalition did not give good results and that direction should be changed, missed if what you were saying about roads is a new path. However, new roads are wanted but we blame Croatian Labourists. Without structural reforms, Minister Linic himself said several times. Obviously, the state of health in Croatian health proves that rather than reforming the government, established reforms are a major mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59173	New replica and colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59174	Thank you. Comrade Vuksic, you said the government predicted a rebalancing of this budget of 16.3 billion deficits. But that won't be true either. Unfortunately, there will be not only a 60% deficit increase but at least 70% of the deficit. Because GDP will drop by 0.8% according to estimates of all relevant experts who follow analytical movements in the Croatian economy. And the government predicted a growth of 0.2%. On the basis of which I do not know, on which basis, it is clear and certain that no significant investment will happen by the end of the year in the Republic of Croatia. And that according to all GDP estimates, it's going to fall somewhere between 0.7% and 1%, but let's say at that estimate around 0.8 it seems pretty real by all the experts who talked about the problem. So, not 60% to raise the deficit but 70%, you warned that the ruling Kukuriku coalition promised three salaries in plus and not three salaries in minus. It is the same, as it is true that they promised the tsunamis of investments, we remember precisely the expressions of the tsunamis of investments in 2012. And what did we get in 2013 at the end of 2012? Instead of a few investments, we received the tsunamis of unemployed Croatian citizens. Tsunami. Why am I saying that? Because at the time of this replica of mine, only during this replica that is very short, which will last two minutes several Croatian citizens will lose their jobs. Several hundred Croatian citizens will lose their jobs during the debate on this agenda. And that's not the problem with the government. They don't have a problem with deficits or unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59175	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59176	Yes, although the deficit is greater than 60%, the deficit does not need and often in many countries is not a bauk. Many countries on the deficit and on the external rainbow have lifted land from the ashes. However, what matters is what money, borrowed money is spent on. That's the most important thing. We know that the strongest economies in the world are American, and we know what the deficits are from year to year, from decade to decade, when these deficits of the '30s were created and what mistakes were made there in '38. And then in 2000, right around the deficit. I wouldn't be afraid of deficits and greater deficits and external debt if we started production. Then we'd finally start paying back our debts and cut the deficit over some future period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59177	Replica, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59178	Dear colleague Vuksic, yes, you noticed well that there was no recovery of the health deficit of the state budget would certainly be lower. The health debt has not been left behind, in health care is left one abyss, and all thanks to former Minister Milinovic. But in your debate, you missed and mentioned the fact that this government has left 5 billion kuna to the economy and it must certainly be felt on the revenue side of the budget, which is a measure that the HDZ government has not noticed for the past 8 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59179	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59180	I was just saying that the government left it by reducing the health contribution, I was saying not by taxing on the... invested profit, I did, I said it and I shouldn't forget it. However, Croatian laborers were at the beginning when the health contribution was cut, warning that this money would not be used for new jobs and we are now arguing that it should be returned to the same. And Mr. Linic often spoke about precisely that the economy, there I completely disagree with this HDZ side that claims to be the government's fault. We have bad managers, we have no new values, tycoons that were purchased under quotes by Croatian companies sucked out all the money. And yes, that's true, the HDZ government has left a wasteland, but they've lost the election, now you're half the mandate and we need to start talking about this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59181	The last line in this cycle is colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59182	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Vuksic, you said in your debate that the rebalancing of the budget is at a new level compared to the plan due to some new circumstances. The fact is that in the second half of this financial and calendar year, some new circumstances have occurred which have led to some effect which requires rebalancing, and the rebalance has to be implemented because the budget deficit has been increased from 3.4% of GDP to 5.5% of GDP. So the main reason for the increase in the budget deficit is the cost of health restructuring. So far, it's been spent as we've heard 3.3 billion kuna for KBC's recovery, and it's going to be about as long as it takes to resuscitate the county hospitals. The increase in the deficit was also due to the payment of half-yearly EU membership fee. The deficit has also been increased due to revenue cuts, primarily VAT and membership fees. So due to all these new circumstances, the deficit has increased by 2.2 percentage points compared to the planned ones. So, if we hadn't implemented that health reform, and we had to implement it in order to enable or create the preconditions for the functioning of the Financial Business Act, so to create the conditions for paying within 30 days or 60 days, so we had to do so, that all of this would not have actually been a deficit of 2.6 GDP, i.e. for the general state deficit would have been at a level of 3.3% and would have been lower than it was in 2012. So we could sit still, not implement reforms and watch the state fail. So the ship may be tied to the harbor, but it's not designed for that. The ship must sail. So that previous government was a ship that rocked peacefully in the harbor, and we were.../speak off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59183	Thank you. Time's up. I now invite you colleagues and colleagues to applaud the Friends Group of France and Croatia in the National Assembly of France led by Mr. Patrick Bloss. Now let's hear the answer to Branko Vuksic's replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59184	Dear colleague Jelish, I spoke of everything you said in my debate. I agree with you here, but I just said in the replica it's important what the deficit is spent on, it's important what the borrowed money is spent on. That's important. Reforms started too late. You said yourself, at the 6th month we knew the state of the Treasury, why there was no rebalancing at the 9th month when Mr Linic said when something could be done, when something could be fixed, when money could be redistributed, when there was some hope. I'm just saying today, and we've drawn a line, we've summed up, we've taken away, and we've said that's the situation. You just gave right what I said in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59185	Mr. Slavko Linic has now come to the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A brief review of the club's exposure. The significant differences in the concept of the coalition and the proposals that you have made are that it is the backbone of the development of the Republic of Croatia. In your opinion, it's consumption, which means bigger pensions, bigger wages to support the economy and basically just spending. This is a proposal that you offer that is unacceptable to us in the coalition government and this coalition government is leaving the model in Croatia. Why are we leaving him? The result of such a proposal was well attended in previous governments, not only to the final term of government, in previous governments. And what are we here for? Up to 200 billion kuna of public debt, up to 200 billion. We have reached 45 billion euros in the total foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia, we have reached 45 billion kunas of blocked accounts, an enormous number of legal persons to the total insolvency of the legal system. We've come to the fact that everyone has left and closed production, that they've turned to real, that supply of property and property business. Yeah, it's business. At the same time, we have reached 300,000 citizens who do not pay their commitments, are unable to pay their commitments. We've reached 650 million blocked accounts. Consumption, consumption and not on own capital of own income, no. I'm in charge. And that's something the coalition government said cannot be a way out for the Croatian economy. The exit for the Croatian economy and our growth rates are provided for in two segments, one investment and that investment that we consider to be going into production, the manufacturing sector and therefore the tax exemption goes only for investments in the economic part, the manufacturing part. And the second is export. Exports that mean no consumption at home, production for out. Now that's the problem. What does export mean outwards? Do we have a Croatian economy that is competitive? Well, it's not. 45 billion unpaid bills, blocked accounts, all of them in a good way were two-thirds of the economy to open up bankruptcy. At the same time, layoffs. That economy has to be more competitive in order to get out. And that's why the government in non-consumption policy, not spending, is completely restructure shipbuilding, railway, air transport. We have before us the restructuring and the energy sector. In addition, solving indifference. And listen, we've cut it down to 10 billion. On the other hand, investing in speeding up the process of financial consolidation of the private sector and reducing the expenditure side of the private sector, and that is why we reduce one tax, another tax, why we give these incentives just to make them more competitive. What's our problem, what we expected all these effects would produce better results, there'd be some exports, there'd be some investments. Personally, I expected it. But as we can see, we have obviously bigger traumas and problems in that economy, and we still need to help them. Therefore, for this government, a coalition battle for that economy to go outside, start for investment and create jobs and jobs. The private sector can. And the battle to get a job, not to spend, is the policy of this government, and that's where we differ significantly. Therefore, we are politically in the proposal to conduct economic policy significantly different.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59187	They're following the replicas. First, my colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59188	Dear Minister Linic, you said the differences were important and you said what is the backbone of Croatia's development for the Croatian government. You put a burden on me to offer, Croatian Labourists only spending. We offer investment spending. Let's put it this way. How did spending in Germany bear fruit, precisely because the comparisons are guided, one measure and another. Because they also encouraged consumption, and they invested at the same time. They knew our model how it would boost the economy and how the state would invest. How is it that the Croatian government has increased VAT, and many countries have reduced VAT to increase consumption, to get money out of stockings or banks, citizens' money. It's important to repeat what I said and in previous replicas of what money is spent on. We are not for rational consumption, let's say the consumption that works or how many mayors buy expensive cars, how many mayors work regardless of the party, how they belong, how they paint. We're for consumption, I'm talking about a whole other spending, the consumption that encourages production. Many economic theories confirm this, but also confirm after theory and practice and precisely in the crisis that occurred in 2007, it proved to be a very correct solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59189	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59190	Speaking of Germany, let me remind you. At a time of severe economic crisis, if I am not mistaken, the Social Democrats were in the top positions in Germany. So if you remember why Schröder lost the election? Let me tell you why. He stopped salary growth, did not allow salary growth, cut social expenditures, restructured the pension pension system all in the saving function to allow the economy to endure the crisis. Yes, it was done by the government at the time of the crisis in Europe. What were we doing? Spend, spend, spend. Not to mention tens of thousands of apartments we haven't sold. Millions of squares of business space, millions of squares of land that we've rescheduled. We financed it all, not from our own capital, from financial capital. What we did, the philosophy of consumption, the consumption, the economy, we pushed in completely wrong directions. We have not done anything to turn to saving, limiting savings and in the public sector and other implementation of public sector reforms and send a message of what the economy should do in its restructuring. Today, this coalition government is trying to fix mistakes. And repairing mistakes instead of timely intervention is the most expensive. Now we're pushing money, 5 billion businesses, and it's not enough yet, they still want to. And our budget is this thin. Now, that's it. But we still have to invest in that economy, in that workplace, and expect this economy to be exported, but it has to be competitive. And today it will be very difficult to compete because it did not stop the destruction of its capital in time and at this point it should return capital to the economy, which is painful and expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59191	The next replica of counterpart Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, we may disagree on where economic growth should be expected. So we are convinced that the private sector is the key to this growth and job creation. We may not agree on that, we warned here that raising the general VAT rate would actually bring less revenue to the state budget. We have warned now that we are in the EU especially about the fact, which is that spending can be much easier to move beyond Croatia's borders, spending is also being moved to the internet. But what we agree on is that the future and Croatian future economic growth must depend increasingly on production. Well, then my question is why don't you get the funds of economic cooperation to invest, which is why they're founded, in manufacturing companies that are in trouble today. Maybe it's a long way to go now, we don't have time, so we're going to go into the pre-departure settlement story, but why the funds of economic cooperation and you have that position that you can and need if we're talking about coercion, so it's investing in companies that have not only production, they can survive, but they also have an export market. He's not the only Dalekvod. Dioki, Gredell, I don't know there's a lot of things. These jobs need everyone to know. One job in production is worth approximately 100 thousand euros. The logic of a healthy one says that it is much easier to keep both cheaper and faster what we have than to create a new one. The more we are not competitive right now, the better we all know to attract large production investments. So they were founded during the HDZ government, economic co-operation funds with a key objective, which is to invest exactly in manufacturing companies, to keep jobs, not to keep other people's capital. These are, of course, the interests of export companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59193	Minister Slavko Linic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59194	Mr. Representative, I agree with good measures were the formation of a financial market and pension funds and economic solidarity funds, good measures. I would say that when we talk about some major companies' pre-fashion proceedings, without the entry of economic solidarity funds, we would not solve these problems. The biggest problem is how to push them towards it, why. Because the basic thing is these funds are part of state money, part of private money. What we want is that the knowledge of these private investors helps restore economic activity to the restructured companies. That's what we're missing, there's not enough of them, they're not present enough. But you have to understand the simple private initiatives are missing. Also, when we look at energy investments in Croatia, we say we need partners, so we don't always need to. Why? Because we have our own money. 56 billion kuna in pension funds. And are these people who need to have the ability to sense whether a hydropower plant is an interesting project, whether it should go into it, whether it will enlarge the money of the Peace Fund? So unfortunately, we do not have enough private sector initiatives in Croatia. Because pension funds are also a private sector. The FGS are given private sector management even though we're 50-50%. Therefore, all of this needs to be awakened. So it's true that we've formed a good financial sector that could invest and help the fallen companies. Pre-curricular settlements are extraordinary because capital needs to be replaced, capital needs to be reduced for lost money and financial capital should be entered which I agree the HDZ Government has formed. Therefore, the actions that they will seek
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59195	Time. He will now present his replica with counterpart Josip Boric. You haven't answered? Josip Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59196	I'm Franjo, still.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59197	Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59198	Here, Mr. Minister, I'd like to look back on your exposure, so as I see it, it's solely your former government that you're accusing at every step, but at the same time you won't admit exactly the mistakes you've made in these two years. You're saying there's a series of wrong moves made in the past. But at the same time, I'm asking you how is it possible, then, that in these two years you've made 6 billion deficits, how is it possible that you've reduced the tax before the tourist season to the hospitality that you've drawn 3 billion deficits from, how is it possible that you've increased unemployment in these two years to 350,000 people, how is it possible that in European funds, and the incorrect data that the Deputy Prime Minister has made. You did not withdraw the funds that Croatia had to pay for its EU membership. How is it possible that you will not say that it has been you since the 2001-2004 Croatian states were in power, so you have not taken those moves that should have been right or better said, you have started selling Ina which has now culminated, so where Croatia so says there is no more ownership, etc., etc. Why are we running away from the fact that your very policy towards the economy has destroyed the mass of companies that can't do business today and people have ended up on the stock market. Why won't you admit it? So try to turn to the future. Try this people's words, which are precisely your measures concerning the economy and to get this people out of a difficult situation. Don't just accuse the former government because both the public and the press and all the media have already told you several times, there's enough of that kind of policy, turn to real economic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59199	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59200	Yes, Mr. Representative, we are guilty of giving the economy 5 billion kuna, 1.4% of the social product to be competitive, to start hiring and to boost exports. Yeah, that's our fault. That's why we reduced our contribution to health care, parafiscal intrusions. That's why we abolished the reinvested profit tax, which is why we reduced the tax on catering services, that's why we're guilty. And because we fight. We're guilty because we said we're not going to let the judiciary handle bankruptcy for 15 years because that was the reason why you had 300 thousand citizens who don't pay their debts, that you had 70 grand per person being blocked per year, so we started to solve this problem ourselves, along with the banking system and try to recover that same part. That's why 5 and a half thousand people have been asked to turn to the government to help them in that section. A thousand and four hundred thousand were solved and 18 thousand jobs were saved, that we were all to blame. And it's our fault that we finally solved Shipbuilding that you didn't want to solve, instead of paying in the railroad now we're restructured and we're trying to build railroads. Health and traffic, too, have turned all the dubiosis into a long-lost debt, that it's all our fault, and it's all our fault. But, Mr. Representative, you who are responsible for selling Ina for small money, let someone manage Ina as a party and people get bribes and corruption for it, bribery and corruption. Where your ministers in the government raised their hands for the gas business and threatened the state of Croatia, all of these are the dirty jobs your party and your minister in the government, and now have the courage to say that we are to blame for Ina, shamelessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59201	Time. Last line, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59202	Thank you very much. It's been forgotten how to swim, how the Pliva control package was lost, the Pliva stock, but good. You say the situation can't be solved by consumption, but you're contradictory here. It is this deficit of 17 billion kuna that goes for one single reason to finance public spending with it, but why you finance public spending with it, for the simple reason that as we have several times so far, you have also found that there has been no structural reform of any system today in Croatia. So even today the expenditures of the state budget, around 43% goes to various social benefits through pension, through health care, through social services, 27% goes to salary fees, 6% goes to subsidies, and I think 6% to interest. So it's defined somewhere 85% of the RS budget as fixed costs, and they're fixed once again for reasons that there's no structural reform left. You mentioned earlier that the health debt is now over six billion kuna. The clean start said 4 billion and 600 and we agree that now it's over 6 billion, so 2 billion kunas of a new debt. Also, you are the Minister of Finance, and you can very easily check that the ninth, tenth and eleventh years have not been a single recovery of the health system because it has not grown in debt, we have not generated new obligations, and we have started to reform the health system. And behold, he tried to defend you, and the honourable representative of Negadić, and his voice trembled a little, and his voice trembled when you first spoke in the congregation, so you had a little nervousness, or when you were telling the truth. So it's not a debt in the health system generated from nine, ten, eleven, but the last two years of five at the end of this year, the total debt in two years will be five and a half billion kuna of a new debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59203	Time. Thank you. The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59204	Mr. Milinovic, if you mention the Clean Start and say four whole six billion, then your debt is 4.6. And the truth is, last year a billion and this year a billion, that no one disputes it, but 4.6.5 billion you left behind, but the worst thing is that you didn't do anything to prepare for the reforms, to prepare. I was just telling you about Shredder, he's prepared a lot, Mr. Minister ex, try to understand, you had to do something, you didn't, but that's your problem and we say we'll solve it and we'll solve it with all your objections and it'll be them. There's no doubt about it. There will be. So try to understand. What you're trying to say is that we needed the first year, we have four years of mandate, and the health system will be resolved. The administration will be resolved as well. This is where our representative used to tell us we needed local self-government. No, gentlemen, first of all, we solve the state administration that's based on the county, by the cities, by the municipalities, by the irrational, the dysfunctional all of this needs to be changed. We will see how much you will be supporting the 2014 reforms that will really be very much in your healthcare system to show you how this could have been done. It could have been done, and we shouldn't have had that kind of expenditure. But what you also need to know, the government's message is a very clear savings on pensions, social benefits and on employees, neither there was nor there will be any savings on them, and the restructuring of administrations, health care, education to reduce the costs that will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59205	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative will speak. What? ... Breaks will be normal will be a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Igor Radinovic speaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister. Here I was just thinking that the debate had a little quieted down even though it was getting less replicable and I think it's good and I encourage my fellow opposition to give as many replicas as possible because you will thus allow Minister Linić to repeat his reasoned debate on these amendments and additions more and more. Namely, the reasons for the changes and additions exist that is unequivocal, so we are at the end of the 11th month to underline the accounts for this year's decline in income is cca 2.9 billion kuna, expenditure growth is almost 3.5 billion. And of course that difference in the definition of budget is the balance of income and expenditure that we have to do with this other rebalancing this year and we do. First few sentences on expenditure, so I remind you colleagues and colleagues, it was said that the first reduced nominal expenditure reduction in history was just in 2012 so last year when expenditures were reduced nominally compared to the previous year, and the deficit was reduced by a total of five billion kuna compared to 2011 according to our IMF method, and not ESO 95 it shows a 10 billion difference. All the costs that could have been reduced in 2012 and in 2013 have been reduced at this time, I think it shows also white-collar trade expenditures. So, along with what the minister admitted with the failure of salaries in science and wages in the police who raise expenditures on one side but through the increase in gross wages on that amount, look at the other costs in class 31 and in class 38, and you will see that the government has done a lot. Therefore, other expenditure on employees has been reduced regardless of the increase in gross earnings, reduced material expenditures, costs for employees, expenditure on material and energy, costs for services, fees for people outside of employment, and other unremarked operating expenditures are all, despite the increase here on the reduction and this proves the savings and policy of this government to rationalise business. Take a closer look at the other expenditure expenditures 38 I am talking about with the estimated operating costs and current donations, capital donations, capital aid all this is reducing. But most of all, the reason we go from spending to changing this budget is because I responded in one of my replicas. So it's just health care and health care recovery from the past few years. Unfortunately, that's not all we've heard yet, we've heard in a previous debate and county hospital, we've got about 2.5 billion more standing as... irresponsible authorities. Therefore, healthcare recovery 1.7 billion refers to the payment of prescription medicines according to 445 pharmacies. 1.4 billion resolutions paid for stationary health care according to 170 different suppliers of KBCs and KBs. 115 million kuna according to 434 pharmacies for orthopaedic aids and an amount of 71 million kuna to various other legal and physical persons. The health system has worked all these years before and now imagine what these entrepreneurs are when you don't pay them 500, 600, 800, 900 days in which they have resolved their liquidity situation and I'm asking a rhetorical question whether they may have also attached their costs and their services and their products to the state and whether the state has paid them much more because of their irresponsible behaviour. As far as income is concerned, the main reasons for reducing revenues from customs duties, a reduction from excise duties, a shift due to imports that occurred in the 7 month said Mr. Minister quite optimisticly estimated that the impact would be somewhat lower. He was slightly higher than expected but looking at it on the bright side that money still remained in the liquidity economy... the economy he this year is a coup in terms of the state budget but in... the economy remains throughout the year. But while I am at it, the minister was now talking about 4.5 billion that this government annually returns to the economy with its primary goal of waking up this economy to taxively state what measures on the income side have a direct impact on the budget, so they make it difficult for the government to balance revenues, and on the other hand they help the economy. So more than once here mentioned a reduction in contributions to health insurance, a reduction from 15 to 13 index points, a disbursement of 2 billion per year kuna or a discharge of gross labour prices, and we often say that with the gross labour price we are uncompetitive. We may be in an EU environment, but we are not discharging the gross labour price by 13%. Once again, this is not a reduction in health care, health care has equal income, health difference compensated from other incomes. We're talking about reinvested profits, so you don't pay the government's decisions, you don't pay taxes on reinvested profits. The effect on the budget on the negative side of the budget is up to 2 billion kuna, depending on who will withdraw all that tax. What we need to know is why the government reached out to this measure that the capitalisation of Croatian companies, unlike banks, is quite low, that in 2001 it was 55%, and that in 2012, only 34%, but if it were to extract state-owned companies, the public-owned companies would only be 21% and that's one of the reasons why the government decided at the expense of saying budget revenues decided that the tax on investment profits would try to help the economy. So VAT reduction, i.e. raising VAT thresholds for small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen from 80 to 230 thousand kuna as much as... It was important, perhaps, to best say, that nearly 27 thousand entrepreneurs had crossed from the VAT system, came out of the VAT system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the reprogramming of the debts of 4 reprogrammes and businesses and citizens I think it is unnecessary to say, 7 thousand subjects survived and accepted these reprogrammes, of pre-fashion settlements with almost 50 billion so internal debt, of saving 20,000 jobs. I don't know if it's necessary to speak again after the minister has repeated it several times. I said on the receiving side, the biggest blow is entering the single market, the negative impact in the short term but in the long term, that money remains in the economy. Then, by entering the European Union, as well as the element, the possibility of using... Soot at VAT for construction tax, i.e. mutual transfer of obligations to the recipient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mathematically this liquidity relief is about a billion kuna and nearly 300 million kuna VAT in July alone. And in August, 2 billion or 553 million kunas of VAT. A lasting measure is practically a relief for liquidity, so construction companies, companies that may be in the biggest problems of 4.5 billion reliefs for their liquidity, therefore these are effects from the European Union. What they are, and yet I say on the other hand liquidity is also a blow to the budget. What is also said is negative for the budget but good for the economy, so customs, we abolished customs duties in Europe, the effect is about 600, the effect in this year is 650 million, about a billion and 300 means annually, and that money remains the economy and not the state budget, and then we can interpret these deficits more easily. HBOR 1.2 billion in two years, therefore entering the HBOR. Now there's been a difference in these discussions why you haven't withdrawn some strategic reforms, why you're not doing anything. There are many ex post minds, if they can use that term to forget colleagues very often that they have been able to withdraw such reforms for 8 years. So I owe it to this speaker to ask all those who had the opportunity and why you didn't pass the investment-incentive law, on strategic investments. Why didn't we, gentlemen, why didn't the previous governments resuscitate the central salary account, why didn't they create it if we had already had an OIB, if we had had had had the possibility of why they didn't give us extra effort to see what it was like in all the salaries in the state administration if they were already such a large amount and a burden on the budget? Why haven't we introduced fiscal accounts before, why haven't we noticed that many don't pay taxes before? Why were we disasterers when we introduced them and said they wouldn't bring this system back to life, but you're gonna hit the economy, so we're gonna close down jobs, etc. Why didn't that happen? Why didn't you worry about an even match that the fiscal cash registers had made possible before? Why didn't we talk about the proper distribution of social assistance at the time because many, the minister spoke about it in the opening and very often says, many who used the work on black received social aid from that relatively small pool, taking those who really needed it. Why have we allowed individual entities to pay no tax for years, how have we not noticed that individual entities have 10, 20, 30 times, today have 10, 20, 30 times as much traffic as before and have not noticed all this tax administration. Why do I say... The OIB system, we often say, why haven't we centralized this social care system, why haven't we networked it with local self-government units, why in the extreme line to get off the economic part and what's the biggest part of the opposition to competitiveness, why haven't we approached legalization of the facilities, taking care of land books? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one of the main complaints of investors. Why have we tolerated indifference all these years, why hasn't the IRS done its job? Why didn't she even notice a property tax of hundreds of millions, so only 5% you have to pay and those claims to our tax administration in some former times went out of date because they didn't respond in time to those words that invested 95% of something and didn't have 5% to pay the tax. Why didn't you recognize the problem before, recognize the problem in the economy so you didn't come up with your own pre-fashion settlements and not wait for bankruptcys where we charge less than 10% and it lasts more than 10 years. Why didn't you capitalize on HBOR and help the state investment bank help. Why did you gentlemen stay passive instead? Why did you cancel all the tax breaks in 2009? Why, with the introduction of a crisis tax, you didn't come up with any other measures to resuscitate the economy other than model A and model A+ that were, we know, quite infamously under a billion kunas a year. Why would they withdraw profits from public companies instead of making them invest? Why is INA, why is the obligation to modernise INA from '05. And '06. What is the position in the contract that has not been modernized by the refinery? Why are we handing over management rights about this will the courts say? Why didn't we invest in HZ? Why today the railways in Croatia only drive 40 per hour. Why you hired various Buljubašićs in HEPs and many other companies, and for the energy strategy, you determined that it was atomic, that atomic energy is not much for the Croatian economy's atomic energy. Why, health care may be the best example of developing days of payment and bringing the system... Indifference? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why did you sign before the very elections of unfounded and unrealistic collective agreements as your last attempt to remain in power and perhaps try to be irresponsible in another term? These are the questions that we all have to answer together, but as soon as possible and start looking into the future, and therefore I also commend the discussions of those colleagues, although it is less rare for this speaker, but also for discussions on committees where sometimes good contributions come in and I think we can get some synergy, but the difference that divides this and that side of the assembly is, in any case, a responsibility. The situation in which the Croatian economy, the budget, but society as a whole shows this and the most recent events are not the most envious and those who expected that the magic wand of recession could be resolved within a few months or two days unfortunately were mistaken. It is a mining business that this government has courageously accepted, doing it well, will be doing it in the future and therefore full support of the SDP club to the entire government policy, and certainly also to these changes and additions to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59207	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas that are exactly eight. The first one will be presented by Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59208	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Radjenović, we agreed, here you mentioned health care and so today we came to a consensus, there are no structural reforms and we have 2 billion and said Minister Linic, admitted and it is good that there is a 2 billion new debt in the health system. Now the question is, why is this 2 billion new debt? You've recovered, you've taken over health care, come on, clean start said 4 billion and 600, and now it's about 5 billion kuna, and you've taken care of 3.5 billion kuna. You see how illogical that is. Now the question arises why a new debt was created only in this year of 2 billion kunas, to respect all legal obligations. For all that needs to be allocated to health care today, the HZZO budget would be 24 billion and 784 million kuna, as has also been recognised on the Committee on Health and Social Care. So Minister Linic either took the health system exactly 4 billion 126 million kuna, and that's why Minister Linic doesn't want HZO to be singled out of the treasury because that way all the revenues intended for healthcare would go to the health budget. As far as the collective agreement is concerned, we signed it two or three months before the election, but you know how? I've been negotiating with the trade unions for the last three months to postpone this collective agreement for a year, so I had understanding of the situation and it was not known that the left coalition would win, but I did not sign collectively with the application of 1.1.2012 but 1.1.2013. For a year I gave room to a new minister who now with Bernardic brought down Milanovic, before he was with Milanovic Bernardic, but did not deafen for a year and did not open a social dialogue to solve the problem, if he considers...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59209	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59210	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know, Mr. Milinovic. You'd better go with those numbers. You've been a minister for a long time. We said ourselves a clean start of 4.6 billion, 3.3 we've covered now and 2.2 if I'm not mistaken, they're staying at county hospitals. That's a difference from a billion kuna, not two as you speak, but the real question is why those 4.6 and why no move in that period of your ministry has been made. As for the signing of a collective contract. After the downturn of almost 10%, with all the employment of non-medical staff within so far 54, as you know better, 54 hospitals in Croatia, after buying a lot of unnecessary appliances in hospitals that objectively do not have the capacity of doctors themselves, but not the need for such quality appliances, so after a long-term collapse you are now asking why we have not done in these years or two days what you have ruined 8 years of healthcare. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59211	The second line is a colleague of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'll start with what my colleague Rajedinovic said in the end, that it's responsibility that makes us different. In my replica, I asked Mr. Minister if he would bear responsibility for the misjudges, and today I reiterated that he misjudged the revenues, that he misjudged the deficit, that he misjudged economic growth. When I asked him if he felt responsible, if that would possibly make any moves, he told me the citizens would decide, why would I, I have the right to misjudge, be no mistake. So don't sell demagogy because it's obvious that responsibility doesn't live in the ranks of our government and our ministers. As for the wrong estimates, I listened and I couldn't believe it, so you're interpreting that the revenues fell due to the entry into the European Union, and the expenditure grew due to the entry into the European Union. Well, I guess you knew that. Let me remind you, the negotiations were concluded in 1.7.2011, so since then it has been known what will happen to both revenues and expenditures in the budget that are related to the entry into the European Union. You are today selling fog to Croatian citizens and speaking as if you were surprised that we entered the European Union and something happened that no one could have planned. So what have you been doing for that year and a half, what have you been waiting for, why haven't you done a quality analysis and a proper assessment of the income and expenditure that will happen when Croatia enters the European Union. As far as reform is concerned, 2011. Croatia has completed its negotiations on entry into the European Union and I dare say after the creation of the country the most complex, most difficult administrative, technical work, the most complex job has just been the entry into the European Union related to the whole series, with hundreds of reforms. Your government would never end negotiations to join the European Union because it just doesn't know it. As for Buljujasic and employment... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59213	Time. We won't be able to make it to Buljujasic again because the time is up, two minutes have passed. ... Igor Radjenovic will respond to the replica. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here's a colleague of Radjenović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't say about Europe and signatures and what we've signed unfortunately and a lot of things and today we see where we haven't been... the most cautious. Here's the farm first comes to mind and they all produce and protect the domestic economy. You're telling Mr. Jandrokovic that he needs to be replaced by the minister and replaced by the minister for misjudgement. And I must admit quite bravely from you that the most popular minister in the Croatian government wants to be replaced because of the misjudgement. Apparently, a good part of the citizens assesses that he is one of the best, if not the best minister to use that syntagm of our comedian, and I think you want to replace him because of or invite him to resign or change for something he does, that is. which does all that his honorable predecessors did not do well enough and now much is out of sight and is not appropriate for a state of order and normal. The government's goal and the whole story of this government has said that thousands of times today, Mr. Minister, is to relieve the economy. Unfortunately, no one is happy that the economy has not come to life. Now, we expect to get around to stagnation and get going next year. But the calculations on which the minister based this story were just coming from the growth of the economy and they're reading. If your basic weight, which is the growth of the economy is not in line with expectations, then of course you have a decrease in income on the income side, of course you have a fall in income. I can only ask you a rhetorical question. And what if we hadn't put these five billion kunas into the budget and the functioning of the economy as opposed to the previous years? Then what would just happen to... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59215	The new replica is from counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59216	Thank you very much. After this debate of yours, I must admit that I understand why your colleagues in the SDP city organization in Zagreb did not want you in close leadership. You have obviously moved into this parallel universe in which the Croatian government lives. It's okay. Because sometimes your discussions on your part remind me of these autistic tenants in a building that is regularly collapsing throughout the year, and you are constantly praising every minister that appears in front of you. That's a confession to make. Because how do you even interpret what you said? We gave everything to the economy, which brings us 60,000 unemployed. We gave everything to the health care, it created chaos for us. It simply doesn't correspond to the reality of this country we live in, and it needs to be discussed. Just like this stability needs to be discussed. Five times we're talking about a state document, a state budget in two years. We'll do it six times tomorrow. Is that some kind of stability of state finance? And no one feels any responsibility for it. I'm talking about restructuring public enterprises here, and it's constantly listed HZ. What have we done with the Croatian railways in two years? Of the five companies created three – HZ transport, cargo and infrastructure itself, and there was also HZ as holding and HZ towing trains. That's all we did. Fired 1200 people, said we'd privatize CARGO. Now we hear 1,500 people out. We haven't been able to privatize him, and that's a contribution. Let's look at the report from the agency following the regulation of the Croatian Railways market. All indicators negative, less passenger transport, less cargo, less and less. And we say here we successfully restructured it so I don't talk about HEP. What did we restructure there? A 500 million kuna loan to fire 1,500 of the most important people in HEP. There's only red tape left, unfortunately. These are the facts to be talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59217	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59218	Well, fellow Boric, I don't think it's appropriate, but you're not the first to mention the internal relationship in the SDP today, so at the plenary session when we're discussing changes and additions to the budget. I don't think that's very appropriate. In order to comment on relations in other parties, you would have to leave your HDZ party first and then move to another party and then do it there, something similar to what your colleague Laburist did in your neighborhood and then move to HDZ, so now you can talk to him about the internal issues of HDZ. But when you called the SDP relations, then you basically gave me the opportunity to remember at least from the media reports about how you came here, personally how you came to the Parliament, at least the media reports wrote like that when you secretly filmed your party's session and secretly sent it to your president, so that president changed it if I read it well, how I read it in "New List" that's what it says. So please, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Here's the challenge, I answered, so let's not go any further about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59219	Replications can be unpleasant, answers even more unpleasant. Let's move on. The Djuro Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, in the last part of the exposure, you've asked a lot of questions as to why. I'm not going to repeat it now, but it seems to me that you've alluded that it all means what we're not that you are, that all the reforms you've implemented. The obvious result of these reforms of yours, so 50, 60000 more at the Employment Office of unemployed persons has been a continuous decline in industrial production since the very beginning of your mandate, a decline in consumption, a decline in the income of the state budget, the biggest deficit in the history of the Croatian state. These are all the results of your so-called. reforms. So it would be better if you had already come to your senses, stop carrying out more of these reforms that are pushing Croatia into ruin. That's our request and our proposal. Don't do anything else, it'll be more useful and healthy for everyone. You still mention it, and that's what the minister mentioned in the pre-determined settlements. I ask you if you know all of you who boast of 18000 saved jobs how many hundreds or thousands of small companies, medium and small enterprises have destroyed these pre-profit deals and how lost these jobs were because they were not able to collect their claims because they were reputed by larger creditors. If you are talking and if you have so many opportunities, I hope that, with many who have lost, of course, many hundreds of thousands of kunas or millions, who have had to fire workers and close their trades and small businesses precisely because of this model. Show us that number of thousands of jobs lost in other businesses either guilty or debtors because the bank and the state at their expense and at the expense of the owner have settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59221	Thank you. Time's up. Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Drinker when I asked why I asked why I would listen to your advice and why should we do something that you did not do? So, I was looking right at your side of the assembly because you had that possibility. So a lot of good proposals, especially the general type of structural reform, etc., come from your side. But you, unlike your fellow Labourists or some of the other colleagues here in this assembly, had the opportunity to handle it. So that's exactly what the question was, why should we do something that you didn't do and why should we listen to you? And when we talk about a pre-nuptial settlement or bankruptcy and an alternative between those two examples, it wasn't easy to make that decision, you know how much it was with the courts and today, but also with the Ministry of Justice, it's not a secret attempt to come to a solution. If memory serves me well, the HDZ was for that bill of pre-determined settlements. So when I told you about your later mind, maybe that would also apply to this replica. And when we compare the bankruptcy or pre-demand settlement that Mr. Drinker was saved 18 thousand jobs according to the calculation we have, but what would be charged in bankruptcy you know well. What did the Croatian history of bankruptcy show? She showed that many bankruptcys are spent 10 years and more and that the charge in those bankruptcys is far less than 10%. So I'm asking you when you have so much to worry about these little entrepreneurs and what would they charge after 10 years in a one-digit figure from your total debt and would they then be alive both as a natural and as a legal person?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59223	A new replica follows, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Radjenovic, it is certainly not convincing 4 years later or today at half of your government's mandate to ask what, why something was not done 4 years ago. But I will answer you here as soon as possible what the HDZ government has done. You talked about HBOR, so that the HDZ government also capitalised on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the HDZ Government launched a programme of payment of the tax debt, the HDZ Government introduced funds of economic co-operation with the aim of preserving jobs, the HDZ Government also introduced the Investment Encouraging Act. And here we are in the assembly if I'm not mistaken a year ago, supporting the promotion of this government of yours, the promotion of that same Investment Encouragement Act. Finally, and not least, the HDZ government has completed its EU entry negotiations, at this point in business investment, the only stabilising factor unfortunately for our country. You've talked a lot about investment laws. But there is one problem. No law alone can resolve the question of a business investment environment. It is a very complex issue and unfortunately this shows all the research and all the tables of international institutions that we are currently going in the wrong direction. So what can fix and that is tax competitiveness because it is impossible to say after five years of crisis we will burden Croatian citizens to disburse the Croatian economy. If we had a Japanese industry that exports globally then we might be able to discuss it, but since we have yet to build new production for export, first preserve the existing one and then this government is responsible, then it's impossible to unload one to load the other. Unfortunately, our cake is small and depends on the economy of citizens and citizens who still work dominantly in the private sector depend on that same economy. And with that tax competitiveness
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59225	Time's up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59226	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59227	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59228	Thank you, Vice President. Well, joining the EU was a common goal, fellow Milosevic, so the consensus of all political options, and in particular the SDPs and HDZs, that I do not remind you when you are laughing at me from those benches that Mr Racan has just launched but that we are not going back to it. The truth is that you have completed the negotiation process but the truth is that you have been the longest of all EU members and negotiated in these negotiations and the present shows that we may not have negotiated everything very well. But let's put it aside. It's not true that I said in my debate that nothing in HDZ policy was right. In fact, you've also launched the Investment Encouragement Act, and we've fixed it. He mentioned the minister now and the FGS and so it was launched then but it was Mr Milosevic not enough. You said one inaccuracy in your replica, which is HBOR and capitalization. Therefore, the HDZ government did not capitalise on the HBOR with a single kuna. This government has recapitalised twice 600 million each. And when we talk about the investment climate, it makes the whole functioning of the state and you know it best. So, not just on the financial field... As for the tax which is often your criticism we are far better positioned than total. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps we should ask ourselves what the investment climate meant to us, in fact, one thing to call it so corrupt Croatia that remained behind you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59229	Followed by the replica of his colleague Mladen Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59230	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Rajedinovic was well told that resignations were painful. I would really suggest to colleagues from the other side before they come to the Parliament every morning to light candles down for long life and good health to Minister Linic that he can correct what you did wrong. On Thursday, a fine title came out "Inventure of Crime Sanader and HDZ Stronger Than All Thieves in the State". No one has called it off or objected to today. If we have 43 500 defendants who have managed to solve in their pockets 67 million we have on the other side 820 million where Sanader was made with his team. Unfortunately, colleagues, when we know in the papers last time, and one TV station gave the highway to St. The deadline to the board annex contracts cost us only 2 billion. When we know that the cost of the projected woodcut is 160 grand, we paid nine million at Amazon. When we know that the resort in Karamtics in the middle of the hill was dug up, that it cost 60 million and di was that material, they sold individuals and re-entered that road. But if that's not all, we have here at your side of the former 13 ministers. Just two minutes. No, colleague Marelic. [[Intruder, Stazic: But there will be no more time for this.]] The reply to Igor Radjenovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, let's apologize at the recapitalisation first. The HDZ government has been capitalizing on HBOR with 200 million kuna but there has been no kuna, but it is still three times less than this government does, I have no continuity as some colleagues for so long in the Assembly, so here I apologize for the information I made, but I repeat that this government has had three times as much capitalization and HBOR considers it its key investment cycle driver. You didn't finally get to mention these 13 ministers, the gas business, you just got to mention the prime minister. I would remind our colleagues and all of us together that it is not easy to manage the system which has therefore inherited this government because, with all of it, I ask for a mild expression of the ineffectiveness of our judicial system, the fact is that they are legally condemned so other than Sanader, who is just waiting for his verdict, with the power of two Deputy Prime Ministers legally convicted of economic crime and one minister also with him. So, as many as three ministers have already received their judgment over their guilt in the sphere of economic business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59232	Followed by the replica of Fran Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59233	Thank you. My colleague Radjenović, I got the impression that we had actually had a report before us since 2009, 2010, 2011 and not about the rebalancing of 2013. Obviously it's hard to admit that after two of these authorities that the state is in bigger trouble than it was the moment you took over. Let me remind you. In 2011, there was no economic downturn. So there was stagnation in Croatia and two quarters of that year were in plus, the second and third trimesters of 2011 were in plus and you inherited a stagnation so not a decline in the economy, which already indicated one sign of exit from the economic crisis. As of next 2012, the GDP economy has fallen by less than two percent, and this year it will fall by 0.8%, and that is not a problem for you. Your problem is to mention the riot at the time of HDZ's government, therefore the mess that has resulted from Croatia's entry into the EU, which is what your minister likes to say, we inherited such a mess, here we have even entered the EU. Imagine the mess, implement reforms, raise standards in Croatia and the EU recognised all improvements and all compliance with European standards and said Croatia, Croatia is ready to join the EU and that is, in 2011 when you had stagnation, not economic decline. When you talk about a pre-demand settlement, I will continue where my colleague, Djuro Popiac, stopped, and I will say it's about public money, so it's about the money that these governments are disowning allegedly in favour of entrepreneurs by destroying small and medium-sized enterprises, the credentials of these same firms they forgive. So I'm asking you to urinate and publish a list of companies with the names of the owners of those companies that you've allowed to continue your business and that you've freed from debt to the state, how much this debt is, as they're called, you'll see your knowledge of needles and what they've been doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59234	Thank you. Igor Radjenović corresponds to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matusic, here you are, I don't already know which HDZ representative that points to the EU is the sole success of your government. So I'm going to leave you in that belief, the best contribution to this success you show on the streets of Vukovar and some other situations, and that's really the way to the EU, I congratulate you on that. As for a wise proverb in conflict of interest, the elements are not important, but I will give you the argument that is unequivocal. So, according to our standard methodology, what we inherited the 2011 budget deficit was 15 billion, the government managed to cut it to 10 in the first year of office together with all these incentives towards the economy. According to ESA95, the 2011 deficit when you achieved the stagnation of the economy but at the heart of some other results shows that 25 billion deficits, 3 and a half billion were left in 2011, the last year of HDZ's mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59236	The last replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your statement by HABOR best shows how easily you make statements. So if you say that entering the EU, that's why no reforms were needed, you'll also say the 2004 Treasury, a hundred sub-accounts, and there are 900 million kunas on them, in 2011, the State Treasury is just one account, no sub-accounts, nothing to it, and that's certainly a mess. You're also talking about the tax administration unrecorded so how would today's minister know about the debts if these debts weren't recorded? Whoever didn't want to charge them, can be investigated, can be seen, but also the central salary bill all welcomed you almost in Finna, you should have just run, which you waited two years I don't know. As for Ina, very interestingly, March 26, 2002.Decision on the Declaration of the Law on Privatisation of Ina and then Article 4 paragraph 2 shows the Republic of Croatia will retain ownership of over 25% plus one part of Ina d.d. which will be privatised by a special law after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into EU membership, so this was carried out in 2002, in 2003, privatisation of 25%+1 of shares, shares of 900 kuna, but the management rights of Hungarians have been brought by a member of the finance administration and a member of the procurement board, it is practically as if they had received complete INA in their hands. The INA couldn't make any, you don't have to whisper I'll tell you everything, in INA you couldn't make any investment over 80 million kuna without a Hungarian vote, and in 2009, when it was actually sold when the IP was made since 2007 by 1.690 kuna and at the same time you claim that nothing was invested in INA. So if nothing was invested how did so many shares grow? And not to mention that the very interesting things that the counselors gave in 2003 are, but I'm talking about another occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59238	Time. Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Schucker, even though I said I was wrong about this 200 million kuna, I apologize again, I missed that information, but here I am now obsessed with knowledge and I know that the HDZ government has invested 200 million kunas in HBOR and the SDP government has three times more than 600 million kunas a year. Well, here's my apology for you investing three times less. I didn't know that. With your debate, you confirmed my statement about this harshly spoken after-sense by calling for a variety of reforms that you have prepared but have not withdrawn either COP or a lot of others. I'm sorry you didn't do that. If I'm not mistaken, maybe you would have done it... only a year before and you might have spent it, but here's a colleague, Dalic, then she didn't do the job until the end. As far as INA is concerned, the same rhetorical question, if I remember correctly correcting me if I'm wrong, you've been the chairman of the INA Supervisory Board for a long time. So I ask you why as chairman of the Supervisory Board, and well the known Company Act; and [[Intruder: A colleague of Linic.]] I'm asking you why you haven't read the materials when we're talking about the gas business, etc. I read the same in the media that there was a debate at the HDZ presidency, so you didn't even read the materials for the HDZ presidency that would... ask who put you there. [[I'm sorry.]] But as colleague Cain says, the same rhetorical question, and why did Sanader end up in prison? Very close to custody. I'm sorry. Why was only Sanader that you said, I heard why Sanader ended up in prison. Thank you very much. Now you'll be in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59240	We continue the debate by clubs and on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59241	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yeah, here's a good atmosphere a little more relaxed that's good. I'm really asking myself the same question who can invest in this country. This morning she was upstairs at the delegation gallery of the French Parliament if I'm not mistaken, and then imagine when she passed through that street of A.G. Matosha down here under the government so when they see what it looks like whoever came here if any of the presidents came, did any of the Prime Ministers of the Parliament come here to turn around and come back from where he came from? So that's right, I'm really calling either the government or the city of Zagreb, let's get this street sorted out once. For starters, that's it. Now about this budget rebalancing. What do you say about this? We're simply a desolation country, and I'm not calling this government or that government now. Clearly, no one is asking for any amnesia for these two years but also for amnesia for the period from 2003 to 2011. Well, just before someone said so, there's a whole government in prison. The prime minister, the two vice-presidents of the government, the economy minister, the military minister was or was not. Some criminal proceedings are being conducted against the police minister, the minister of agriculture in prison and now the most bizarre one is the President of the Chamber of Commerce who should lead or introduce order and worry in the economy. This is as full as a boat. Here he was found today by an incunabula of the 1455 Gutenberg Bible. Who's going to invest in this country? Well, there's no job in this country, I guess, without a commission, and it's enough to read just what's going on in Croatian roads or highways so that someone doesn't just take my word for it. And then a man asks himself whether all of this in some way may affect that investment climate in the Republic of Croatia, does all of this affect opportunities in the Croatian economy, does all of this affect investment, investment security and the like? It means that climate change needs to be addressed, indifference needs to be resolved. I also agree with some that these measures that are being taken may be dominantly serving or helping a large economy at the moment, not so little should be equated in some way in terms of dealing with large ones because without it being launched, there will be no RH either. What is also the fact that growth in this country was not from 2008 to 2013 means that it is the six years in a row. Clearly, today is about rebalancing but all our views are facing towards 2014. and I agree with all those who say that 2014 will be a key year, and especially when it comes to this public service or public sector, and it is good that the finance minister is today announcing the changes that will be made by tax administrations and courts, as well as hospitals and schools, and that we do not list any further. Now, if it's going to be a year ahead of us economic growth, that's what we'll see. Trend might be if the odds don't get worse. Today, as we all know, we have 150 thousand fewer jobs in the real sector means more than before the crisis, and out of all 150 thousand of these jobs are lost in the real sector while around 30,000 people work more in the public sector. Today we have 10 thousand unemployed in Istria, there are 4.5% of the Croatian population in Istria, on this day in Croatia there are exactly 355,000 2 hundred 14 unemployed. I said in Istria 10 grand. What's the problem? Well, among other things, I can agree with the minister, budget spending. Our budget, though without MIORH and without the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in 2000, was 50.7 billion kuna. But let's let it go now. We can say that the base was the one from 2003 because the funds of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Mirovinski funds were included, and at that time amounts to 73.4 billion kuna, 2003. 80, 2004. 83 billion kuna, 2005. 87,9, 2007. 108 billion kuna. Interestingly, it was an election year compared to 2003, so the budget in those 4 years plus 28 billion kuna today is 119 billion kuna. And now out of the 119 billion kuna, 49% are citizens' rights, social rights, pensions, defenders, 23% go for wages, 16% are the main interest, 5.7% are subsidies, 4.7 billion kuna help local self-government, and clearly there's no room to express myself for investments. And go back to this rebalancing now. Clearly, the budget is always for 2014 because 2013 is for us but we all know that it means 2014.Determining the budgetary policy, I would say for the last 3.4 years. When, in the second rebalancing of 2013, revenues must be corrected and this is now 2.9 billion kuna and expenditures increased by 3.2 billion kuna, then it is clear that the deficit will rise by 6 billion kuna, meaning this year and will amount to 16.2 billion kuna. And it only says for itself if it hadn't gone from one such restrictive tax charge to us or all of us in the public sector would have simply stayed so I dared without one salary or someone without a single pension. However, those who have pensions above 5 thousand kuna, here first of all I mean the defence population in 2014 defacto will be left without a single pension and I would say with caution with that. The government plans growth in 2013 still by 0.2%, I agree with all of them it is impossible, the European Union International Monetary Fund forecasts a drop of 0.7%. When the budget includes local self-government and extra-account funds or beneficiaries of the deficit from 16.2 billion kuna, it grows to HRK 19 billion 440 million and that is 5.5% of GDP, the consolidated state deficit in 2013 is 5.5%. When we compare the budgets in 2013 then the rebalancing costs are seen. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to: 113.4 billion kuna, rebalancing 110, 2014 budget revenues 113 billion kuna. Expensive party, plan 2013 123.6 billion kuna, the deficit means 10.2 per rebalancing of 16.2 billion kuna, the 2014 budget. 130.5 billion, deficit 17.4 billion kuna. What failed? They've subdued the taxes of 2.4 billion kuna, I guess we have to admit that so far it's cost taxpayers 3.3 billion kuna without general hospitals under quotes, I know that ours in Pula over 220 million kunas of outstanding liabilities and 2 Ministry of the Ministry of Interior and Science have spent a billion kunas more than plan, education 700 million kunas. Here changes the government's mandate from 26.3 billion to 31 billion kuna, under quotes nothing compared to $43 billion in 2014. But what's it for? It's for the deficit, it's for the repayment of debts. So second year the state is in debt for 40.5 billion kuna but 3 billion kunas are there Croatian roads, Croatia's waters will have to pay back 22.5 billion kunas of old, due debts that did not make us understand only this government and this second is about normal funding of deficits. And it's understandable that the state depends on new taxes. But in this rebalance, agriculture went down 3.3%, 2013 planned 4 billion 487 million kuna, a rebalancing of 4.2 billion kuna. Education went up 5.1%, planned 11 billion 362 million, spent 11 billion 942. The peace system, again spent more on 1.56% or 2013. 38.5 billion kuna, spent 39.1 billion kuna. The MAP was also spending more than 1.3%, entrepreneurship, which went down 20% of the socials, or planned 6 billion, 5 billion 992 million kuna, pardon 3.3% went up. Spended on a rebalance of 6.2 billion kuna. The economy 16.4% down, defenders 4.3% down, defense 3.2% down, Parliament -22 million kuna, Constitutional Court -2 million kuna, government planned 253 million, spent 237 million kuna, president of the Republic remains simply on the same side. Then the question really arises as to what we will survive in 2014 and, among other things, because of the new mini tax reform. What I would, where I would be careful, is a property tax, first real estate not, second to the cottage either, or I don't know what's going to happen. The excise duties we see what happened in this year's budget together with customs duties -770 million kuna and it is understandable that they too have to be corrected as the VAT has to be corrected for the hosts. What else is there to say here? Yes, we gave the European Union a billion kunas, which is somewhere around, no, 260 million euros, according to the Vice-President of the Greek government, this year we will withdraw 266m euros. The year behind us is a difficult year, but the year 2014 can be true or not be. The one to be saved, the one to be taken, means more in this debate simply by the budget that will most likely follow during tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59242	Thank you. A lot of replicas have been reported, and the question is whether or not we're going to make it all the way to the break. The first one was Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59243	My colleague Caine, at the beginning of your presentation, you said, quote, "We are a desolation of the earth." Is it possible that Croatia was hit by typhoon El ninja? No, colleagues and colleagues, Croatia hit something much worse, it is a typhoon of HDZ authorities that lasted 17 years. In the typhoon's attacks in privatisation, 350,000 jobs disappeared forever, 90% of those privatisations to Mrs. Simi Krasic were carried out in a criminal, illegal manner. It is this negative humus where the prosperity of Croatian society should grow. The prosperity of 100 chosen or 1,000 chosen or 3000 chosen, but 90% of the society fell to its knees and all stories should go from there, not for returning to the past, but for cutting down incredible aggression and arrogance in the discussions we hear where the government that threaded bow smelled a thread of onions blames what you colleagues have done, i.e. Your authority, not you personally, but some personally. Yesterday, your President, Mr Karamarko, said that Croatia was shaking terror of relativisation, and unfortunately Croatia was shaking, shaking and came to the threshold of the destruction of terror of crime that took place during a period during which you played a major role in this society. That's why I'm asking for modesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59244	Comrade Jurjevic, this should be a replica of Damir Kajin, and Damir Kajin will respond to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59245	El Niña is devastationing a little further south, not here, not so far north. Yeah, somebody's bullet, someone's property, they used to talk. Imagine, today some individuals of the 100th or 300th families are able to buy incunabula or purchase, I don't know how, under what conditions, from 1455 printed on Guttenberg's machine. The entire government said earlier was de facto in prison, by the prime minister, two deputy prime ministers, not to list now what I did before a whole series of ministers, not to say that no job in this country could actually be done at that state level. Maybe it's similar on the locals without a serious commission. And then I asked myself if it affected the Croatian image. Well, not only does this devastated street of A.G. Matoša here under the government, but it simply sends such a negative picture of Croatian opportunities, of Croatian officials, of the Croatian government, of us as citizens of this country that very few people want to have a job in this country right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59246	Second replica, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59247	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Cain, as usual, you were contradictory. A few things I'll comment on. First, when you were talking about corruption here he referred to you and representative Jurjevic, it was you who meant the IDS you called during the local elections by the mob organization that is the government of Istria as Sicily in which the police, the state's attorneys, the IRS, are connected, in which money is taken for sale of land. When you mentioned Mr. Vidosevic, maybe he earned some of his property by selling land in Medulin, we don't know that. But as far as I know, I.D.S. was in power, so since you're talking so generously about corruption, it would be nice for you to give us your knowledge of what was going on in Istria while you were a member of the IDS. It's easy to accuse others, but take responsibility, go to the State's Attorney's office, tell everything you know about how it was ruled in Istria, how the government in Istria has been all this time. It's another thing. I don't know if you're going to charge HDZ with that, too. Real estate tax. Yesterday, Minister Linic said we will introduce a property tax in 2014. HNS says today there's no real estate tax. You say cautious should be with a real estate tax. So who's crazy about it? And well, if that's how we're going to talk to fellow Stazic then we've introduced a new practice here to the Parliament, so I'll remind you that you've been flying for 7 kuna, and the other 300 kunas have been subdued by Croatian citizens when you were in Brijuni. [[Intruder: You.]] [[Intruder Stazic: What a question such an answer.]] These items are not in the budget, and perhaps they should be put in for 2008, the ninth and tenth so that people know where their tens of thousands of kuna went for the holidays of the SDPs in Brijuni. I didn't run out because I won. [[Intruder Stazić: You've run out of time.]] No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59248	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59249	Wait, wait, Mr. Vice President. It can't be like that. There are rules of play in this Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59250	Time's up for your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59251	No, but he lost my word. I lost it for 20 seconds, and now you're gonna give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59252	Your time is up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59253	No, no, I'm not gonna stop now because it's not okay, it's not right, it's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59254	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59255	And I'm asking you another colleague of Cain, you said it's impossible for growth to be 0.2%, so I was wondering if you would support...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59256	Comrade Jandroković, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59257	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59258	And now I give you a reminder by taking away your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59259	Will you support that budget rebalancing that you yourself say isn't real?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59260	That's how you got your warning by taking away your word. You will no longer be able to report on this agenda item. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59261	No, there will be no growth, Mr. Representative, as it has not been these six years, and I have said this in the budget that we have adopted in this House in 2012 by combining with the Istrian opportunities and knowing what will happen to us below in 2013. If I believed then that there could be no growth in Istria, then in some other areas that are far away, in a far worse situation there could be no 2013 either. I was saying Istria will be neither Sicily nor Calabria. And to tell you quite frankly now where my relationship with the IDS was going, because my people were so open, rude, against the will of the people of Istria all the time working together, collating with the HDZ government. And when something white was involved in that, I said enough. It is true, Mr. Vidosevic bought some 4,500 square square meters, I don't mean the Hajduk football players, he bought about 4,500 meters. Wait, let me talk! In the Long Cove, the most attractive space in the city of Pula. And it is certain that without local authorities, it could not be urbanized, especially without one staged fire. Well, individuals weren't just megalomaniacs, but I have the impression they were pyromaniacs. And as for the real estate tax for 2014 the first real estate you live in has nothing to be taxed. The other real estate that you inherited, and you don't live there or I don't know the cottage, there's nothing to tax, and if someone has three or four or five properties, then let them first say how they got it and pay taxes on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59262	Followed by the replica of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59263	And colleague Cain, I've been listening to your debate, and I'm interested in whether you and your IDS in Istria are as bad as we are with the SDP in the Primorje-Gorski County. Because you've talked a lot about investment, about the investment cycle. You often mention a new hospital in Pula, etc. When this government started, we had four ministers from the 8th constituency. Unfortunately, one of them had to go because the prime minister wouldn't let him build a highway from Križišće to Yellow Lokva. Now we're on three. Looking at this budget rebalance into our 8th constituency so maybe 300, 400 million kuna investment didn't come. The director of KBC Rijeka himself says it's terrible what conditions they're working on and that they'll almost have to shut it down in view of the state of the entire facility and everything that's going on there. So I'm interested in whether you're in Istria the same way and if we have any of what we are here, we have three ministers now you're one of the IDS, the two of us here from the SDP. We simply don't have any investment in our 8th constituency except that it succeeded I think at least finally complete this stock from Orehovica to Križišće, although it has not yet been released in full profile. But I wish we had such hopes that some of these massive investments would come into our area. That's why I want to ask you, is it the same for you and the IDS as we do for the SDP in the Primorje-Gorski County?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59264	Here's the answer to that question from Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59265	Well, it's not much better in Istria than it is elsewhere. If there are 355,000 unemployed in this country today, there are 10,000 in Istria today. I feel the same way with those 10,000 in Istria as with all those 355,000 in the Republic of Croatia. But what's equally undeniable, the investment doesn't have or will soon be. First of all, here I mean the real sector. Everything is more or less based on these government investments today. I'm listening to the mayor suck these days. She says 2 billion kuna investments. In the budget of Sisak-Moslavina County, the money can amount to about 250 million kuna. It cannot suck into investment, as the County of Istria with a budget of 305 million kuna can invest more significantly, although it does not mean that they cannot spend far less. But it is also a fact that Croatia's 570 million kuna, Croatia's 370 million kuna road, will invest in Istria over the next two years. Next year, Kashtjun, about 70 million kuna. I want to believe that the Istrian ipillon that stood last year, as far as tourism is concerned, has invested 800 million kunas this year, about 600 million kunas next year. But what's the point? Not in public service investments, but private investments. If there aren't any of these private investments, come on, it'll help us publicly, but it won't make the citizens feel important about the quality of their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59266	Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Caine, I don't want to talk about what I disagree with you about, but I'm a lot of times, but I'm going to talk about exactly where I agree. And I'm glad to hear from you that you're standing up for street and public roads. In any case and since there is little talk of local problem I have said many times in this House of Commons that we in our county have about 800 km of roads which are the competences of ZUC, County Road Administration. And we got at least the funding from that position that's in the minister's jurisdiction. And imagine who got the most? So I think there's Krapina-Zagorska and that part. And I wonder what the criteria are? It's important and very important to say because we also think here and talk locally. The second thing that I agree with you is that we need to support small economies, and I want to say that the family farms are also small economies that have been cut by hamlets, which I no longer know how many today, and you yourself have said how much is reduced in the budget. I won't do it again. But what I'm saying is it's not just a problem that it's cut, the problem is that the market is unsettled. The problem is what I was saying a few days ago that the European Commission has returned the strategy to correction. And it's about those 332 million euros for rural development. That's the problem, and it doesn't promise any better futures. And that's why I don't expect for these small economies next year, no matter what they say, there's going to be a lot of funds now, etc. In the budget tomorrow I don't expect it to come this way, and the recovery in agriculture isn't very simple, it's not easy, it's not fast, it's one cycle that needs to wait for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59268	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59269	Well, I, uh, I have this very information, and I agree that domestic production should be protected. That this domestic production was supposed to be protected yesterday, not today or not tomorrow, because the question is whether we're all going to survive tomorrow. Now, after entering the EU on 1 July, milk imports jumped 86%. This is what Mr Linic says, as far as we are concerned about customs, we have lost not only income in the state budget but what it can mean for the production of milk in the Republic of Croatia and what will happen to our cattle stock like this. We're back de facto because of these imports into production, so I'll say maybe 10 percent backwards. Yeah, someone's gonna say we're screwed with the Union. Imports of powdered milk I read annually increased 2267%, butter 127%, cream 33% and so on. But there's just no choice, you just need to see what you can do about it. The borders are now open and we should try not only to import but also to edit and perform our products.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59270	New replica, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59271	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of Caine's in your presentation you said a sentence that you in the coalition government don't like to hear, and that's what you said you were conducting a repressive tax policy towards citizens, of course, and companies. And you said it wasn't such a policy where we'd be? I wouldn't get paid here today. Yes, dear fellow, that's true, but in addition to such a repressive policy you've created 6 billion deficits, you've created today at the Employment Office over 350 thousand people, you're going to have a deficit of at least 22 billion kuna with this kind of repressive policy in 2014, and you're going to introduce a new social impact on all citizens and on all legal persons. So please answer me what policy this ruling structure of your coalition is and will you blame the government of the Republic of Croatia next year where HDZ has been acting and what will be your excuse for this deficit in 2014 as I said it would be at least 22 billion kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59272	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59273	Let the HDZ handle the courts, I won't. But in real estate taxes first, second real estate not, third, fourth, fifth, we'll be easy for that. It's not a social category anymore. Maybe in some situations, but it's not usually a social category. A clear battle of all battles is a battle for the workplace. The fact is that exactly this year, 4.7 billion kuna was left to the economy, the biggest benefit was the large economy of that money, not the small one. That's what you should say. We're seeing a lot of people now from all these polls, and they're hiring extra. The fact is, the kid's on his knees. We have to think that in some way, maybe special measures for that small economic sector, that little one, unfortunately, no one should worry about. Someone's gonna say, if it's any use big, it's got a small one. To talk about taxes now about the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, minus those 2 percentage points, absolutely have a small cors but incomparably greater benefit comes from the big one. And who on the other hand fills our budget? I claim to be dominantly full of those 750 thousand people who work in the small sector. There are 150 thousand people in the big sector who work as long as they work in the middle, say, these companies. So I want to believe that more simply attention will be paid to the small ones. And on the other hand, that we're a country together. We have 556 units of local self-government, 310 tourist communities, I guess there are too many agencies and what's called the ministries and advisers of the president of the state and so on. There are 370,000 people working for us in the public sector and a million working for the real sector, and there's something that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59274	A new replica, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59275	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Caine, accused his former party of cooperating as you said with the HDZ government. I must say that in Lika-Senj County, we are eager to cooperate with the SDP government, but they are tough, they will not cross the line of Lika-Senj County by any means. But good. Now I'm going to start that you and you collaborated with the HDZ government, when it was the rehabilitation of the health system we talked about and the Pula Hospital had 80 million kuna and we agreed when we saw all the costs of the Pula hospital went somewhere around 30 million kuna to the rehabilitation of the Pula Hospital and it was recovered by the highest funds, the highest funds of all county hospitals. That's when I said it in a joke, but you have to, we'll take over the management rights, you said no, let it not come to you by heart, of course I said I was joking and we recovered the Pula Hospital from 80 million kuna to 50 million kuna of debt. Now you said it was $200 million in debt. So you've negotiated this with me who was the Deputy Prime Minister of the HDZ government and we're talking about who devastated Croatia. Come on, we can say that, mentioned many hurricanes, Ninja this one, Ninja one, and in the 40s, I think that Croatia, or Croats and Croats, has the most devastationed Lkomunizmonino, which caused the tsunamis mainly in Split L Bajonino. I think it was the biggest tragedy of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59276	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59277	It's one thing to co-operate with any government, one to suffer, one to work in the interests of citizens, the other to negotiate policies. You to Učka me on the other side of Učka and whoever destroyed this country, you say Communism, or Communism. It's the same thing to talk about, it's the same thing to talk about. But I know that by the age of 90, an economic foundation has been created that is inhabitable since the 1990s. The land was then industrialized. A tourist base has been set, electrified, except for highways built the basic I would say transport infrastructure, other standards have been set and I have the impression that many would rather be in one such social arrangement than in this when they do not know what their perspective is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59278	Thank you. I left you three more replicas, but we'll hear them at 15.00 hours after the break. I'm announcing a break. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59279	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We've got two more replicas on our colleagues' exhibit. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59280	Mr. Chairman, what is the honor after an hour-and-a-half break now to remember what counterpart Cain said, but we agree that the key issue for our country is employment and jobs, and that is exactly what is the most disappointing result of this government and the policy of this government. You said one sentence, and that's if I'm not mistaken that there's no tax burden so it won't be possible for one salary for all of us and of course for civil servants. Now, I will remind you that, except that the HDZ government completed its EU entry negotiations in 2011, 6 and 12 months earlier, respectively, before the legal deadline, the tax burden was therefore reduced, and in 2011 compared to 2010, the result was an increase in employment and unemployment. Now let me get back to this one salary of yours, so one salary is about something if I'm good at three billion kunas, I'm not apologizing half of that one billion kuna is about to pay in the entire public sector. What? ... one approximately one billion 600 or 700 million kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now what I'm saying is that over 50,000 jobs have been lost in the past little over a year. Only taxes and contributions from these lost jobs in the private sector are, in fact, the cost of one month's salary for the entire public administration and all employees. So I think it's perfectly clear where to go, and that's the only solution that lies in strengthening the private sector, keeping jobs and middle and small, you often talk about it, so just middle and small but relative to the big private sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59281	Thank you. We have a colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59282	No, I didn't say that this tax burden didn't rise, but that it didn't access a rigorous tax charge, that we might lose one salary or one pension. Right, in two years we've lost cca 50,000 jobs, in six years we've lost 150 grand means since the start of the crisis in the real sector. What's also interesting since the year 2000 is increased by 50 thousand people so we've got 50,000 people paying contributions, but in the same period we've got 200 thousand new pensioners and that's the point. We started the crisis long before it started in the West. In the west of 15.8.2008, we already had a 6.8% GDP loss in 2008. In 2009, when the prime minister escaped, the system fell apart. We only need to allocate 16 billion kuna for interest next year. I keep asking myself who's to blame for the shipbuilding? I'm not going to say that the former government is not going to say that it's this one, but the fact that this problem should have been solved. Who's to blame for the other economic systems, for one downtown bank, for a Vartex that I know of a brewer from Buzet and not counting on. It's not the IDS' fault for all this is something like everyone else who is at local or state level in the position of power or power, but the fact that we've found ourselves in such circumstances is either that this situation or that the country as a whole someone has to get out of the dubiosis. And I agree it won't be pulled out by the public or utility service, but only the private sector can pull it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59283	Thank you. And the last replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59284	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you were also talking about the deficit due to wages, pensions, hospitals and the like, I expected you to be more brilliant and honest in your exposure, and you know yourself that this summer you're closed cafes because of 5 or 12 kuna extras in the cash register, and that at the same time the public money was shared to personal or party friends, not to mention the Center of the Bank, Dioki and... But you don't mention an unprecedented robbery through the Pre-war settlement and damage to the state budget. How much money will be released to the EPH is projected almost half a billion. But you forgot one more thing, the minister needed to ensure fiscal stability of budget balance rather than welcome a deficit of $16.2 billion, thus losing fiscal sovereignty because we are obviously going to enter the European excessive debt regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59285	Thank you. My colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59286	Yeah, I'll also say quite frankly, for five kunas there shouldn't have been a single catering facility, it shouldn't have been, but it should have been kept in mind that VAT hosts with 25% down to 10% and that there's no need in that case not to report any kuna, everything should be reported. 10% everyone in this country just has to pay. Sinning anyone can fool the state when VAT was 10% simply not allowed. However, it should also be kept in mind what the structure of the budget is. I call no one, 119 billion kuna, 49% of that budget goes for pensions, goes for social services, goes for defenders, etc. 22% that's 2 billion cca. a month, it doesn't matter a billion 700, 800 goes to pay. 16% are loans and principals that we don't talk about subsidies or anything like that. Finally, next year we also know 43 billion kunas the state must be obliged to finance the principal, interest, to finance this deficit because otherwise we all know whether to go pay down or to retire down or to go without knowing the little subsidy etc. And yet until all the dubiosis has been resolved since the shipbuilding, it has started with these 18 billion kuna highways to find money in three years. Well, there's no way that without what you call monetization, you can just do it. Clinical hospitals 3.3 billion. Who will resuscitate 220 million kuna of General Hospital in Pula? Who? County with 305 million kuna simply cannot, local self-government cannot, must simply or state or someone simply call to account. And that's why I only say once again when we fix all the dubious things that have been produced so far, this country will be able to take a step forward. Unfortunately, it won't be 2014. Maybe 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59287	Thank you on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Martin Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59288	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So here's the whole day she's taken over in a certain way this budget rebalancing debate. However, if you would allow me to say that, at least until now, there has been a debate on budget rebalancing and much more on many others or on the subject of general political character. However, the budget is a document containing the sum of financial items and which has one unpleasant feature that unfortunately cannot ignore reality. And however harsh, intense, or with a lot of passion in this House we discuss various political issues in the budget sooner or later it is shown in a very clear and unequivocal way in numbers and data. And the rebalancing that we have here in front of us what he said would be the most worrying feature is that he shows that over the past six months, and in the period since we first rebalanced the budget in some way, there has been a complete shift in results and in the objectives that the budget wanted to achieve. Because I recall that rebalancing in April, the government proposed, and the Parliament of course adopted the budget rebalancing which it had foreseen, wanted and argued that the famous deficit in 2013 would be less than originally foreseen in the 2013 budget. I understood that the government wanted to send a strong message about the direction and objectives of its policy. Today, six months later, unfortunately reality is different. In the implementation of this budget and the implementation of this policy, which should have provided for a smaller deficit, obviously there were insurmountable and insurmountable difficulties that are being discussed in this House, and I would not even get into it at first. But the fact is that instead of what we wanted in 2013 and these are less budgetary imbalances, less fiscal imbalances, the result for 2013 will actually be a deficit of a budget that is 60% higher than planned for 6 billion kuna, or if we are talking about a consolidated central state when we consider extra- budget funds a failure between what they wanted, which were targets and what was achieved is some 6.5 billion kuna. This budget therefore unfortunately shows that the results of fiscal consolidation are not available. In addition, the results of the fiscal consolidation achieved in 2012 have been completely annulled with everything that happened in 2013. After increasing VAT to 25%, after increasing zero rates to 5% and after reducing contributions to health care and after reducing the rate for tourism and after large stories of introducing order of fiscalisation, the result of the overall and mixed economic policy measures is unfortunately that fiscal consolidation has failed. So it seems to me that we're facing that folk saying, "Where have we been anywhere, what have we done-nothing?". Because with this rebalancing, the Ministry of Finance is returning to the beginning and will again have to deal with the question of how to reduce all these budgetary imbalances in a certain way, and in the meantime, because of the combination of economic policy that has led to economic and damage and burden both to citizens and to entrepreneurs, and we obviously see that many groups in society are unhappy. However, what is a question that cannot be avoided when we look at this rebalancing is actually whether the data and whether the picture of public finances shown in this rebalancing is actually depicting exactly how much more accurate the real state with which public finances are going to end this year in 2013, or whether this rebalancing that now brings us the proposal that incomes will be 3 billion kunas less than we thought 6 months ago, that expenditures will be 3 billion kuna, that this overall result will be 60% worse than we planned 6 months ago. Whether this is in some way the ultimate line, whether it is now what is possible to move again into fiscal consolidation, or actually the result for 2013 might be a little bit worse than it is shown here. Namely, why do I ask that? It is said in the rebalancing that the revenues in 2013 will be 110.3 billion kuna. In the first nine months 81 billion kuna revenue has been achieved, which means that simple mathematics, regardless of overall expectations, projections, forecasts, growth, macroeconomic conditions, that simple mathematics requires that the average monthly income in the last quarter of this year, of which two months are already behind us, is 10.2 billion kuna. In no month this year, budget revenues have exceeded 9.6 billion kuna. Therefore, the logical question is why and why the Ministry of Finance expects that in the last quarter of one budget income, so to speak, to flourish and that what has not been realised in one month of this year, or I have looked at little, in the last few years, 10.2 billion revenue has been achieved only in two months, in October and April 2012, neither before nor after. What I'm saying is that when the Ministry of Finance referred this rebalancing to the Parliament, it actually knew exactly how much revenue was actually achieved at the 10th month because the rebalancing here arrived on November 15th. The state treasurer said on the board that income was achieved at 9.6 billion in the 10th month. So, when this rebalancing was delivered, it seems that the Ministry of Finance was aware that the revenue projection shown here would not be realised, and even economic movements do not give us arguments that we could support possibly such a powerful optimism compared to what happened this year. I believe, therefore, that, looking at the revenue side of the budget, there are a lot of arguments that say that these revenues may not be realised either, and then it is also possible that the end result, or deficit, will be greater. The questionnaire, of course, also has over expenditures. One of the biggest questionnaires on expenditures is this hot topic of health. At the 6th month, the so-called "Sixth" was held. Health care recovery and hospital debt were paid to shorten the payment deadlines that exist in the health care system. The aim thus defined is a good goal, only that the payment deadlines in the health care system cannot be shortened unfortunately without changing the way this system works because the average monthly health consumption before the recovery, both in this year and in the previous year amounts to around one billion and 700 million kuna, and that average monthly health spending generated payment deadlines that we all consider unacceptable. However, after the recovery, after 6 months, the average monthly health payments fell to 1 billion and 115 million kuna. The question is therefore how is it possible that average monthly health consumption of one billion and 115 kunas will not generate new dubiosis, and the health dubiosis generated monthly consumption of one billion and 700 million kuna. I don't think it's possible to answer and argue that the health problems have been solved after the resolution. I think that despite these costs of recovery, health dues continue to grow because the system continues to function in the same way, and receives significantly less amounts of money. So in financial terms, and not just in matters of health care, I think there will be a lot more talk about the health care system and that in the coming months we will face major problems from this system, despite this recovery. There are, of course, other questionnaires on the dispersal side. Salary savings are not achieved as planned. 2.5 billion are planned, to remind you, a billion and 800 in the budget and 750 in the health care sector. The savings will be about 900 million on one and the other. However, the number of employees is growing, and perhaps one of the reasons why not fully realised planned savings is that at the end of 9 months 499 people were employed in the education system more than at the end of 9 months last year. And in the health care system, 1785 people. There are no more children in schools, nor are waiting lists shorter. There are still more employees. I could, of course, be naughty and say that the number of employees compared to 9 months 2011 for 4893 people is higher. Given this and the fact that the number of employees is growing then I must say that in fact savings can be considered a success. In a country that has 355,000 unemployed we see in this rebalancing process, the funds for an active employment policy are reduced. They're shrinking from 512 to 343 million kuna. What's the problem? There are no candidates for active employment policy measures. In a country preparing for the use of EU funds only in the area of rail transport, expenditure on implementation and preparation of structural funds projects for 95 million kuna is reduced. The implementation of projects financed from IPA funds is reduced by 61 million kuna and the preparation of documentation is reduced by 34. Why? What does that tell us about project preparation? Whether these were so planned items or perhaps in the preparation of projects there are also fat delays. And finally, the question of how this rebalancing will be financed. In fact, due to the increase in deficits, funding needs are increasing to 34 billion kuna. Of these 34, three billion should be gained by privatisation. The question is what will the government sell for 3 billion kuna when income from the announced privatisations of Croatia's insurance and HPB will not bring half the amount. What else will be sold in the next month? On the other hand, 31 billion kuna remained in charge. The government's already in charge of 29. So in order to meet the obligations properly as it says in the rebalancing, it would have to be another two or two and a half billion kuna. How will it be done by ministers since you said that the bonds issued last week were issued to finance budget needs in the following year. Does that mean that for the rest of the month The Ministry of Finance will be in charge of the domestic market, so this money the National Bank plans and announces for [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] as a way to reduce the budget reserve actually ends up in the state register. [[Upadica Batinić: Bring the debate to the end of my colleague Dalic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59289	We're starting with replicas. Joseph Bencic came in first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Minister. For a short time, Mrs. Dalic, here you are at the beginning just to look back at it and say about where we were, nowhere, what we were doing nothing. I don't know if I quote correctly, or if we haven't achieved the expected results. You mentioned the contributions that are meant on the income side we gave up 2 and a half billion. We gave up reinvested profits. You also mentioned the fiscalization procedure. Yeah, this government could have been comfortable, taken those two and a half billion, shouldn't have allowed the profits to be reinvested. The fiscalization has shown so I'm going to say great results where incomes have increased in some and tenfold, not to say a hundred times. However, this government has decided on a different approach. That money, and two and a half billion kuna, that money that means he was shot in the economy did not go into expenditures, neither in the public sector nor in the state sector, but rather in the economy. You know very well that these are actually actions, actions that don't immediately give so-called. The primary effect and that you cannot expect to see it in this balance this year. But make sure you see it in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59291	Thank you, too. We don't have an answer. Vesna Railway, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59292	Well, here's the honourable MPs, I refer to this same question about what you said about where you were anywhere, what you were doing nothing. Respecting your knowledge I'm sure you have, I think it's inappropriate for the Minister and here to tell us all where you've been anywhere, what you've been doing nothing. Of course, the measures that have been taken are not all together I am happy that they have not received the results that we all expected, but I am convinced that with this work and the way in the future we will achieve better results and that there will be reflections in the coming years and of course not all of these measures that have been taken to relieve the economy and economy have not been able to give the desired effects that we all expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59293	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59294	Well, unfortunately, this saying that I said simply describes the state of which it is, and again today we are in a situation where you are trying to explain how in some better future it will be better and how these measures will give some better and expected results. I would just like to tell you on my own behalf, and I believe in the name of many people it is time for these results to become as little and as modest as they are in the present. Various and different explanations, excuses, discussions about who is guilty, who is not guilty does nothing to help anyone, and the life of no citizen in Croatia makes them better. Things need to change today, now, in order for us to have some results for our lives. A better future will hopefully come. It's just that, for now, these measures of economic policy don't make it clear when.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59295	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your introduction, you said in fact that this is an important topic for us to politicise, i.e. that we should deal with the general state policy, so I expected that perhaps before our replicas, Linić would come forward or Minister himself when you spoke about rebalancing and claimed that the revenues of business in 2013 would be 110.3 billion kuna, and so far in the last nine months it was about 81 billion kuna and you didn't know how and how they would sow it. But among other things, you said after big stories of law enforcement, fiscalization, public finances are faced with a record high deficit. I think if it was really created by the politics of this government then it was created at the Employment Service and in front of the soup kitchens. And as for the fiscalization itself, there are a few things. The economic slowdown was in the Republic of Croatia, although, as Minister Linic said today, he freed 5 billion kunas for entrepreneurs, and they do not invest. Why? With an insecure tax policy, tax increases are, in fact, created both an uncertain and unstable environment for investment. Investors who invest and have any profit actually become complicit in this society. The minister's actually making them public. And as far as fiscalization is concerned, fiscalization may or may not have been morally successful, but it's actually failed economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59297	Thank you. We have a colleague Daliæ's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59298	Thank you very much. So I would say that the biggest problem of all the measures that have been put in place and which have been tried to implement, with the aim of increasing the collection and improvement of tax discipline, is in fact the fact that they have not yielded results, or their results are not seen in the increased revenue charged. Therefore, those initial premises that went into the introduction of these measures that probably there is some money on the road to collect which only needs to be folded have not proved accurate. And therefore, the task of the Ministry of Finance is always to charge taxes as effectively as possible. It's their job. And the Ministry of Finance is trying to find the best and the best instruments in it. And I think that's legitimate. However, what I believe is not legitimate is not legitimate to create the impression that in this way and only through this will budget problems be solved because in Croatia there is a huge mass of people who do not pay taxes and who the predecessors did not want to charge. It is all these measures that the minister has taken very well that this is not true and that these initial thesis from which he started in all of this was not correct. And for that part, it is a budget result because it has underestimated the weight of its own business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59299	Thank you. Frano Matušić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Dalić, and for a reason, you have questioned or rhetorically asked whether this proposal is a budget rebalancing that actually reflects the real state of finance of the Republic of Croatia and will it actually be this way and achieve the budget by the end of the year? You've already brought out the information yourself that October with an income of $9.6 billion does not correspond to the projection that we've been offered. To make things worse, it seems that the government has come to an area that is very slippery to it, which is an area of faith. Not faith in the Most High, but faith in their results. So, the area of belief is obviously a very slippery and unstable area for this government, so it is so clear from all projections that it will not be budgeted in the way that it is shown to the Croatian public here, but that there will be an increase in deficits by another 10%. In particular, it's not going to increase the deficit by 60% but it's going to grow by 70% just by the basis of these indicators that you're talking about. I think it is clear to all of us that there is an unrealistic rebalancing that unfortunately will not be realized in the way it is shown, but also because of that I say what the members of the government have moved on to the area of belief that their results will come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59301	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59302	Oh, thank you. You, colleagues, spoke of the recovery of health care and of the dubiosis and the way this government solves the problem. He solves it very questionably. That so-called. Health care recovery is about to be read in order to go down according to their plan to lift preparedness, to release maids, to re-read sheets and syringes, and eventually to lay off top medical experts in the Republic of Croatia because they do not consider how many hours they spent on the strike or did not spend on strike. So let me inorate a little, but that's what this recovery is all about, why? Because it's run by the finance minister at the moment, and it's run by the finance minister because we have a completely incompetent health minister and instead of detecting the problem and the problem is very detected and it comes down to a completely incompetent health minister or how they like to say health. The problem is being shifted to something quite 55th and instead of looking for a problem where there really is a problem, you're looking for it where it's just not there and it's called projection in psychology and it's quite present and in work, there used to be other work, but there was a presence in the work of this government and of course there's a problem. The Minister of Finance cannot implement health reform, he can give a financial framework but cannot solve the problem, we demand a resolute minister who is completely incapable of solving the problem. Even with all these social confrontations that we have, this minister today manages to confront both patients and doctors and doctors, one profession that has even been quite homogeneous so far and where people and relationships have worked between them. This man manages to separate these people from each other practically at a party level. Therefore, the key to the recovery of health care is the replacement of the health minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59303	Answer, colleague Dalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59304	Thank you very much. Well, I would actually agree with you only partially because you pointed out correctly. We here usually when we talk about the budget either of its executions, whether its rebalancing is the case with the Minister of Finance, only when the budget is adopted here in the Parliament come and other members of the Government, or the Prime Minister himself. However, the budget is, in fact, a document reflecting the work of the entire government and is not in a certain way fair or correct in actually keeping the finance minister alone responsible for the budgetary outcome. The most responsible for the budgetary outcome is, in fact, the Prime Minister whose task is to coordinate the work of ministers and the work of all ministries to ensure that their financial effects of their work are consistent and in line with what the budget says. From this point on, in the context of the health problem, you point to and problem with the relationship of the health minister to your portfolio and to the problems in your portfolio. But the problem is much wider. This deviation from the planned or this derogation from the planned budget shows, in fact, that the work of the Government has not been coordinated, that it has not been coordinated at all, that during the year the work has not been managed in a way to take and take measures to prevent this. This dramatic deviation between plan and execution. The government does not seem to feel particularly obliged by a document adopted here in the Parliament. But at the end of the day, it wouldn't be the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59305	Thank you. Next replica of Hrvoje Nekic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59306	Dear fellow Dalic, I must indeed admit that your ability to present statistics is respectable. But you keep refusing to admit that this government has left 5 billion kuna, 3.3 billion kuna in cash to resuscitate dubiosis in the health system, reduced indifference and, after all, confirmed by the businessmen themselves. And most importantly, it has launched reforms that have not given the desired effect immediately but are likely to give it away by now. All right, I agree with you. You have the right to criticise but also ask your colleagues to stop smiling cynically when we talk about such an important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59307	Thank you. Answer, colleague Dalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59308	My dear colleague, on the basis of this debate, you couldn't assess my ability to provide statistics because I wasn't talking about any statistical data but what it says in the budget. Your possible problem is that you are unable to read it, because the budget is both a complex and comprehensive document. So there's not a single statistical figure here, but numbers that point to the state of budget execution and state of public finances, and that's what we're discussing a colleague about. When we talk about five billion kunas left behind and left to the economy. I'd like to actually say and remind you all that the economy functions as a single system and that it's not a set of unrelated boxes. Therefore, when the economy is reduced to a contribution to health care, it is left to businesses for one part of the financial resources. At the same time, however, VAT has been increased to reduce the purchasing power of citizens, and the purchasing power of citizens is the purchasing power of what the economy produces. Therefore, on this small example, I would like to explain to you that there is a reason why the measure to reduce the contribution to healthcare has not yielded the results you expected because measures have been taken at the same time in different places in the economy with the opposite effect and it is not the consumption of Croatian citizens of some unwanted and unnecessary category and something bad. The consumption of Croatian citizens is also an offer of Croatian companies. They have to sell their products and services to someone so they have to make some revenue and that the economy can work. This should therefore be taken into account that the economy and economy are a unique system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59309	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59310	Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleague Dalic, one thing we haven't touched today. So, regardless of how we joined the EU, Croatia will probably be the first country to benefit from the cost of falling interest, so interest will grow after our country has joined the EU. So, first of all, because of the wrong evaluations and the bad plans of this government, the Croatian credit rating came to the level of garbage and, consequently, we cannot expect that interest to fall but will grow, even in spite of the fact that this government, by an administrative decision, is the cost of shipbuilding and the total recovery of 10 billion kunas to put the turkey in the deficit in 2011. However, if we remember what it was in 2011, 2011 despite the fact that the crisis tax was suspended 6 and 12 months earlier, there was no budget rebalance of any budget rebalance, we had two quarterly economic growth and our credit rating was significantly better than after two years of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59311	Thank you. The answer to my colleague, Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59312	So that fellow Milosevic is good that you reminded yourself of the fact that Croatia today is an EU member, and the fact that Croatia today is an EU member means that in relations with other EU Member States that in the way in which Croatia will meet its international obligations, the arguments with which we wish to justify the current budgetary situation simply do not play. EU arguments of the type of search for the culprit, arguments of debates in which, for example, asks a question as asked today by counterpart Radjenovic, and why should we take measures that you did not take are arguments that no one is interested in. In the EU, concrete facts are passing through, results are passing through and concrete moves are passing through. Croatia too must answer in a certain way the question of how and how it will stimulate growth and how and how this budgetary situation will be resolved. Because don't forget the European Commission estimates for this year that our budget deficit will be 6.5% of GDP. However, such a debate and such an argument which could also help the Croatian government in discussions and talks with EU bodies, we do not see or present such arguments here. What the government is presenting here is a distraction from the important one, and it is important how and in what way and what measures in the next three years the Croatian deficit falls below 3% of GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59313	Thank you. The next replica is Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59314	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Dalic, so I fell for your saying where we were nowhere, that we were doing nothing. It's politically clear that that's how it happens, then we might as well say wrongly, and where we've been before, everywhere, what we've been doing. I would like to warn you of one part of your debate in which you said that fiscal policy measures, therefore fiscalisation, the introduction of tax discipline did not bring about the effects they expected. However, there should be another dimension highlighted, fiscal policy primarily aims at maintaining the stability and stability of public finances. What must not be ignored, and this is what the minister pointed out here today is a major problem of liquidity and insolvency. So only with fair or clean payments can we put order into that system. The government has repeatedly sought through reprogrammes to facilitate entrepreneurs' resolution of their accumulated financial difficulties. I think that's largely done because it's a prerequisite at the end of the day and for payouts, if you remember how many people worked and didn't get paid. Therefore, fiscal policy measures must not only aim at imposing or raising tax levels but also at maintaining stability in the economic sector where it is very important that payment takes place within the legal deadlines. And as for the recovery of health care, of course, there is no need to look one-dimensionally because there are many hospitals that have been reinvested, so hospitals have become difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59315	Thank you. We have a colleague Daliæ's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59316	You said that fiscal policy aims to maintain tax stability and fiscal stability. So why doesn't fiscal policy work?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59317	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Dalic, therefore, told us by her measures less than a year ago that we would be at a deficit of 10 billion at the end of 2013 but after 11 months of this year, the picture is quite different. Now the question is, what happened to the budget on the income side and what's far more important about what happened to the budget on the expenditure side? Let's take just one segment, we've been listening all day to this right-hand side of the assembly that the biggest problem of the budget is health recovery of 3.5 billion kuna, and when you see the budget of the health ministry has increased by 2 billion 800 million kuna not by 3.5 million kuna. At the same time, the minister has admitted it today for the first nine months this health care system has created about a billion and 100 minuses. Now if we didn't say that the health care system costs so much and that we've solved it with so much and so much and that the health minister can no longer spend it, then we've already solved the problem next year because when you look at the budget next year, then you'll see that the health ministry that created a minus one billion, 300 million will create it at the same level as this year's. But what's the worst message in this budget, so you like to say we gave the economy so much and so much. However, this budget rebalance took the economy a billion and 50 million. He took the Ministry of Trade, he took the Ministry of Economy, he took the Ministry of Regional Development. And according to how we can say that we gave if we took a billion economies. And then the logical thing is that these 60% will unfortunately be 70% and that's something that's never been recorded in Croatian history.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59319	Thank you. Next replica, Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59320	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59321	An apology. You called in a replica? ... Excuse me, colleagues. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59322	It's all right. You know, fellow Shuker, I think the concept of giving and taking is one rather relative thing because essentially that giving and taking is summed up to a budgetary result. And this budget score says minus 16.2 billion kuna. That 16.2 billion kuna needs to be borrowed in a certain way, so it needs to be financed. As long as, and as long as the state is faced with such a huge difference between income and expenditure, it is clear that it is actually creating pressure and creating pressure on the growth of interest rates that are then re-reflecting both businesses and citizens. And so we are actually having this whole debate because the main and important question is that this minus and this difference between income and expenditure will be reduced and what is actually going to be balanced is what is given from the budget and what is taken from the budget. As long as this difference is so big it's always going to be the negative, those negative effects are going to hang on to the possible positive effects and what's being given out of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59323	Thank you. Nadica Jelash, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59324	My colleague Dalic, we are used to listening to really professional debates and that is why it seems inappropriate for me to note to you at the government's expense that "where we were-where we were-where, what we were-nothing". So I think it's politically incorrect to minorise or undermine the government's efforts. Thus, the budget deficit has been increased but precisely because the coalition government has worked, so it has led a proactive policy that will certainly bring some results in the near future. Thus, economic operators have been rescinded through pre-departure settlements, and that is where the government actually deprived itself of the 2 billion kuna budget. The restructuring of the public sector, restructuring or rehabilitation of health care, has taken place. All that has its price. But the highest price certainly has a huge public debt through huge interest. You see your government's deficit for the last three years before you lost power in 2009-2011 has reached nearly 64 billion kuna and you haven't made any such structural changes or reforms, you were afraid or calculated. So you simply transferred all those hot potatoes into the hands of this government. I would still like to refer to one of your questions, so the basis of which these forecasts are planned by the end of the year to achieve an economic growth of 0.2% where we get this optimism. So, in the government's work it must be optimistic and it is specifically our government based on quite realistic assumptions, so on the good results of the tourist season, and in addition, through fiscalisation, it is simply evident that economic activity is greater than that documented by the State Statistics Institute data, and this gives us hope that by the end of the year economic growth will come into the positive zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59325	Thank you. The answer to my colleague, Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59326	My colleague Jelash, what you said about 0.2%, it was true written in these papers, but I don't think I actually said it because I skipped that part. But the rhetorical question, not rhetorical but also the real question, is that you and each of us see that unfortunately, growth will not be. Unfortunately. Because we'd all be better off if that was 0.2. And that's why I think it would also be much better to stop having school discussions here that have nothing to do with reality. And mutually, and spend time on mutual convictions that are truly irrelevant and that's who's guilty, when guilty, why guilty, and why guilty. Comrade Jelash, there were elections in this country and I am sitting here on the side of the parliamentary minority. So all you're asking right now is why you didn't do this, why you didn't do this, why you didn't do it, I don't know what, as colleagues used to say on behalf of your club you'd never come to power. Therefore, the elections have shown the result and we are responsible for what has been done and for what has not been done during the HDZ government. But no longer makes sense today when, when almost two years come as the new government is formed, it will constantly discuss what we are and why you are not and why you are not. It is your responsibility to look forward and lead this country and the people forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59327	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59328	Thank you very much, so, colleague Dalic, you've been Minister of Finance and you've proposed a budget for 2011. On the results of 2010. I will visit you for being the SDP president at the time and today the prime minister said that it was the absence of any state policy, and then he asked you if you were aware of how much damage it is to the state. Now that the second year in a row that GDP falls, first of all -1.8 and minus, we don't even know how much it's going to be this year anymore, it turns out that it's actually the only quality of this state policy and it actually contributes to the development of the same. When we do not withdraw from the funds, and we hear we have at our disposal for these 6 months 450 million euros, we have not withdrawn any euro, it is also a great success. At that time, at 305,000 2011, the IMF called, today there are 60,000 more. You simply wonder if we can really talk about the same thing in two different ways because everything that was worth it at that time while they were in opposition now that they were in power is no longer valid. All the failures they face are simply the great successes of this country. My question is whether this kind of fiscal policy makes sense that does not achieve any single objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59329	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59330	Dear counterpart Boris, a lot of course and effort and arguments and words are used to show and prove that the current government has increased order, discipline, or a terrible use of phrases we have introduced order. The issue of order, and the budget, ways and frequency of its changes also signal the existence or absence of order in these public finances. In fact, the government wants everyone in the country to do what is right and how the laws and regulations require. That's more than commendable. However, then, the same measure should also apply to itself and the documents itself proposed by its own financial plans, which it itself proposes to make a maximum effort to implement and respect, and that is also a kind of order. Unfortunately, however, we do not notice this order because today, not even 6 months after we have rebalanced the original budget for 2013 we are rebalanced again and is not a problem in rebalancing. Mistakes happen. Some things can not be properly evaluated at times, but the problem is the extent of the deviation between what is planned and what is finally achieved. I would not exactly label such behaviour and such practice in the institutions of the state government as proof of order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59331	Thank you. And the last replica, the Djuro Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59332	Thank you very much. My colleague, at the beginning you said one important finding, you actually opened the dilemma of whether income at month 11 and month 12, expecting revenues would be sufficient to cover this rebalancing. So it's a really disturbing finding, and maybe it's not clear enough, so it would be good to explain it one more time. Secondly, you mentioned a series of figures where and what you're saying in reply to replicas, so what's the seriousness of the document that's actually being brought in at the 11th and 12th month, which is called the state budget, if the items of some ministries change several times and a half of 30%. What's that for at the end of the line? Which means when a ministry, say, takes away 300 million kuna at the end of the 11th month. So what was that in the budget for anyway? Only so the ministers can say that subsidies and aid to the economy will be bigger than ever, and they already know in advance that it will have nothing to do with them at the end of the year because they will not even ask about it. Or the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts 140 million kuna less. How we saw Minister Maras walking around and boasting of the biggest budget ever to help small and medium craftsmen. It's all a lie after all. What kind of budget we're going to be discussing tomorrow is what we're going to discuss when we see the budgets of certain ministries changing and rebalanced more than 30 on the spending side. So or probably the fact that there are no competences, knowledge and professions in all segments of the work of this government and also great irresponsibility in the adoption of strategic and important documents that must determine the basic economic policy guidelines for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59333	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Dalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59334	So I might add a third question or a third possible explanation of what you said, which is actually what happens in nature and in reality behind these budget numbers. Because one of the items is, for example, This budget shows savings, for example, compared to previous and 2011 Croatian railways. However, we also know that these savings are not realistic because in fact in the amount of savings or even in slightly larger amounts Croatian railways are guaranteed. What the fate of these guarantees will be will we also see whether these guarantees will actually fall on the burden of some future budgets. So these savings that are actually shown in the financial and cash principle as savings are not. One of the also interesting items is the HANDA around which the spear was broken here and debated very much. When the HANDA was introduced into the budget, its expenditures were about 700 million kuna because it was allegedly intended under the HANDA Act for oil supplies, oil products supplies, facilities where these supplies are kept and all related to it, and also related to EU membership. The amount now rebalances these current ones to 434 million. So between the original budget and this one, the rebalancing savings is 266 million kuna. I wonder if it's just saving or whether it's something or if it's some of the obligations Handa creates that aren't actually paid, or if the Handa doesn't do its job as prescribed by law. Thus, these savings, in any case, and the spending side, of course, open many other readings. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59335	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59336	Thank you very much, Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, I expect the minister to return as well. Probably arming more data. Our colleagues and colleagues, namely the budget rebalancing for 2013. But it was visible after we had already made the budget of the thirty-sixth, it was obvious that a rebalancing would be necessary. But we expected him long before not at the end of the 11th month, at the beginning of 12 months but much earlier. Because it's obvious from a document that shows all the policies that have failed a lot. A lot of these items have been missed and everyone who's been doing the budget, everyone who's been running the budget, and here I have worked in local and regional administration units for years, but also by budgeting then we know that the last few years have reduced budgets in local administration units. They are a reflection of the situation in Croatia. But it is evident when we talk about the state budget and the projections for the next time, that everything that needs to grow is falling, and what needs to be dropped is growing. I'm talking about the income and the expenditure side, and that's visible in this rebalancing as well. On the revenue side, we have a minus 2 billion 859 million, we have more spent 3 billion and 580 million. But what worries us most about at the HDSSB club is the deficit that was 60% missed from the planned deficit that was, and that was 10 billion and 246 million failed and it was 16 billion and 286 million. We estimate it could be even bigger, it could be 17 billion kunas. Looking at certain items in the budget, we are sure to be worried about the receipts of financial assets, above all, the borrowing that is increasing from 29 billion to 34 billion, and it is sure to be the alarm bell, the alarm ring for all who work in the resolution ministry, but also in the Croatian government and all of us in the Croatian Parliament. Looking at the profit tax he's smaller by nearly 900 million kuna. It is not only a matter of reinvested profits but also of a fallen economy which is hardly visible in reducing the tax on profits just shown. The tax on goods and services is also a reflection of the state of the Croatian consumer basket, but also of reduced consumption. The reflection of tourism is also missing, and we have a billion and 734 million kunas. But what we see on the expenditure side is an increase in the allocation for employees of billions and 64 million kuna, which is not small and certain that we expect to submit and reports to the Croatian Parliament where these new people are employed, which are collective agreements that we may not know without increasing rights. Because the amount of a billion and 64 million kuna certainly worries about such a failure. But what affects us from Slavonia and Baranja is the subsidies in agriculture. They are reduced by nearly 400 million kuna, which is a significant reduction, and it will certainly reflect on our agriculture, on rural development. What is evident is that there is no political courage, but by looking at our EU accession of 1.7, we also expect those investments that happen to be cost-efficient benefits analysis, and what has been little invested in not being analysed and that we have often missed investment. But I see there's a cut in the amount for DUDI, an agency that needs to manage the property. I'd rather raise their funds because they should manage the property that's not happening. They manage bad and sure that there are great damages for the budget as well as for the Republic of Croatia. What we feel is that regionalisation and decentralisation are both needed and more fiscal responsibility is needed. These days, the Prime Minister was talking about the spy card. But the problem in Slavonia and Baranja after this cutting of another farm we see that nothing will be left of the spy map, there will be nothing left of Slavonia. And when we look at numbers, then there's no uniform development, there's no policy of even development, and that has to be a priority. But when we look at some of the ministries, it's been missed at the Home Office for 235 million for wages. I don't think such failures can happen in one responsible ministry. But it's visible when we talk about the Ministry of Defense to cut the amount by 50 million, and especially the heart that hurts for hiring a defender is 4 million and 522 thousand kuna or 26%. The economy ministry is also reducing by 300 million or 16%. Because when we look at the budget of the basic sentence when we're looking at the budget, it would be savings. But it was saved on development, on development, and in those ministries that needed to multiply the funds and help our economy make it stronger, make it stronger. Just before I said the Ministry of Economy 300 million and it is precisely these creative ministers who have not done their job, so the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts are reducing by 139 million. There's been a lot of talk these days about abolishing the craftsman's chamber. So when we see these figures, we'd better cancel out in time, because it doesn't care about entrepreneurship education, nor about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We see that the reduced funds are almost at 30% level. It also reduces funds to boost competitiveness, but it is evident when I talk about the Ministry of Culture that it has given them the opportunity to increase even the budget. Speaking of agriculture, it turns out we've paid off all the incentives, so now we're cutting funds. But when we talk about the financial envelope, it was not respected and there remained a billion kunas, and surely there was room for respecting that envelope, not for cutting and rural development of 28 million funds for capital aid to IPARD 22% or 58 million, organic production of 7 million, fisheries and eco-systems 28 million, but what we are particularly concerned about, especially after the floods, the protection of nature conservation and the environment, especially when we talk about the disposal of 158 million kunas, is cut off. I also see that IPA project 3B aid is being cut for the city of Osijek. It's a project that goes, and there's no reason to cut funds. Therefore, funds should be increased. The regional development ministry is down by 138 million or 27%. So where do we go if there's no regional development, if there's not at least trying to level the development of the Republic of Croatia? Also when we talk about project unpreparedness, multiplication of funds, but also participations that don't have units of local administration, then we wonder why they cut resources in the resolution ministry? Investments are down. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is cutting 225 million. I also see that the southern coast of Port Osijek is cut by 5 million and 850 and there is no reason why the port should not continue to be built, almost 100% is cut. The Ministry of Environment and Nature is cut by 50 million kunas, the Ministry of Science and Education cannot believe that someone missed both in primary and secondary education amounting to 580 million kuna when talking about salaries. And there's an increase of 580 million. But when it comes to science and technological development, 40 million kunas are cut into science and technological development. The Ministry of Labour and Pensions also missed 600 million kunas, so I wonder who was doing the budget, were some trainees, perhaps trainees, or were the responsible people in the resolution ministry doing it? The tourism ministry did not get the effects we expected, and the Ministry of Administration remains the same. But when we talk about what's been said today it's the Ministry of Health, there's an increase of 13% or 2 billion and 801 million. But what's very important to say, they haven't healed, their currency is paying them on average for 180 days and more. So, it's been missed on drugs by 37%, at a 19% stationary, and it's safe for the government, but also for the rest of the ministry to respond to this strike, they're probably counting on spending less money. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has increased the amount of EUR 200 million. It's probably because more and more people are on the social line, but people need to be hired, working on new economic zones, realising new jobs, but it's lagging behind. The Justice Department remained on the same page, but probably if it worked by impact, it would probably spend less money. When we also see extra budget users we see significant deficits in both Waters and Croatian Roads, it is also likely by watching DAB paying for those savings stakes in the Center of the Bank which we certainly are not guilty of, but surely they could have saved those stakes that were by the state. The deficit is 60% higher. The government of hopelessness in the Republic of Croatia, but it also gives up a lot of projects, and it is certain that what appears in Croatia is one of the defects. The reforms are gone, the forecasts are bad, the investments aren't realised. Well, don't think that's why the opposition is guilty. But when we talk about reinvested profits, it's probably the banks that reinvested it the most. What worries us is that these days, the Greek minister is missing that we may be more likely to withdraw funds from funds than pay membership fees. We are concerned about contracts with CEFTA, Croatia has lost significant funds by entering the EU, I would say with these contracts our producers do not lose foreign markets but lose their domestic market due to the possibilities of all the foreign companies that we have opened up. But what's worrying is just this table of movement and the structure of public debt. In 2008, we were at 100 million kuna, and here we are approaching at the end of 2013 at 200 million kuna. What's happened in the last five years? What we didn't do, and we almost didn't do anything. And just now, I've heard a lot about SDP and HDZ policies, so by the end of the term, there will probably not be an SDP equal to HDZ and the Kukurik coalition to make a bigger deficit. And looking at the forecasts for the next period then we can say that Croatia needs to face the challenges, we need sustainable economic growth, we need to change the guidelines because we need to change new debt to finance interest and we know how the banks react when the interest is refinanced, and we haven't paid you back for 20 years, this rebalance opens the doors to both the IMF and the European Commission to start punishing us, and when we ourselves as a resorient ministry and the Croatian public system don't pay in 60 days, it's a sign of deepening the crisis. The projections for the next 3 years do not reflect the real situation and then it is safe to wonder where Plan 21 is missing – investments, industry, exports, innovation, integration? We're all going down. But following yesterday's media, I see that Sisak County has received 2 billion kuna. Looking at 5 Slavonski-Baranja Countys 272 million and this rebalancing is the amount to be reduced. I wonder who's running politics in the Republic of Croatia to punish Slavonia and Baranja for going to such little capital investment in Slavonia and Baranja. I'm glad Sisak County is going to realize two billion kuna projects but it's a matter of political decision. It's not real projects they have because Slavonia and Baranja have a lot of projects that they can do. The holes are patched with new taxes, not spending cuts. It turns out that the minister is going with that thesis that expenditures are processing, so I suggest the minister today to sharpen the pen and start cutting because there are a lot of items in the budget that can be cut because when we look at the consumer basket of our citizens, they are interested in what will be the press and what will happen next and the holes in the basket are growing every year and the projections we see for the next three years maintain the state that our consumer basket will be growing. The fiscal responsibility law is not respected and no one has ever been in charge of the resolution ministers or in Croatian public enterprises. There is no responsibility, and it has to be because of generations to come, because of generations that won't be able to bring back not the principal but the interest, it's being saved in the wrong place, it's being saved on the development and on behalf of the HDSSB Club I say we can't support this rebalancing because the conditions but also the forecasts we have aren't good and remind me of a man who falls 50 floors, who on the 20th floor is asking how it is and he says it's still good. Croatia is not good, things have to change, but first of all sharpen the pen and cut the spending side because it does not follow the current state of the Republic of Croatia, leads us to an even bigger sink, leads us to a vicious banking circle from which there is no return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59337	Thank you, too. We're starting with replicas, Frano Matušić first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you have rightly said that there is actually a document in front of us that speaks of the failed policies of this government and this ruling furniture, so to the Kukuriku coalition. And you said that famous line that unfortunately everything that should be growing is going down, and all that should be going down is growing because the best examples of that are the economic growth that is going down on the other side of unemployment that is growing. This morning I said in one replica, during my replica that there would be several unemployed and I warned that during this debate there would be several hundred, more precisely, during the debate on the rebalancing of the budget which is as it is and unreal among other things is the new 657 unemployed in Croatia today. So today, the number is currently 356 thousand and 138 unemployed and this is the result of this government's work, the new 60,70,000 unemployed. This is the result of their work, specifically their work. However, they love to live in the distant future, so we had opportunities from the visible Miranda to hear that we would be in 2040. Or in 2050, 375 thousand workers are missing, and they probably live in that environment, in such a mood, so they don't see that we fall daily into everything we needed to grow in. But it seems to me that the only thing on their mind is that they only like that verse from one song that says and crashes is flight, so probably in such an environment they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59339	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59340	Thank you very much. What is evident from the budget is exactly when we talk about the macroeconomic situation, it does not follow what is happening in the budget because it is just looking at cost growth, cost growth and at the same time the drop in income clearly shows what is coming in the next few months or in the next year to two. Croatia will have to draw the line and make it clear that this is no longer how it works. It therefore takes courage in politics and sometimes makes difficult decisions. I know they're usually brought in in the first year of office, but that's missing. Here is the third year of office and the budget that comes before us tomorrow or has already come but it is precisely this courage that is missing in the following year. And it is also evident with this rebalancing that it does not follow the current state in the country and not even the figures that have been shown and which are foreseen will not be accurate, the deficit will be greater. So there's a plane crash, but I was talking about that 50-story drop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59341	Thank you, Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59342	Thank you. We had a recent report, a six-month budget report, and all the trends were visible, which was the report if the government hadn't seen any trends and were not successful by any of these consumers of their own restraints. Why did we even have a report on the six-month budget implementation when we now see that this trend continued until the end of the year through consumption by individual ministries. And so, it's in the MUP that spends 17% more on rebalancing payments than the budget, so it's not that little, it's 300 million kunas in the budget of 2 billion and 700 million they're increasing 300 million kunas in rebalancing to pay for both Schengen and investment and the State Administration for protection and rescue, both for fire and for equipment and for all, directly for their salaries 300 million kuna, so whether the MUP budget is under control, and not to mention this disgrace they recently made to buy for the needs of the MUP, to buy 132 toyoteland cruiser, each costing about 545 thousand kuna, 132 vehicles, a luxury high-class field category, at this point of society and then tell Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens save, money in the budget. And what sanctions you bring to the Minister of the Interior then, it's great. He began to arrest, more and more, journalists began to end up in prisons on all kinds of strange accusations, where the responsibility of the Minister of Interior was both for behaviour and for consumption and for the irrationalities and for this series of strange events that take place in his portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59343	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59344	Thank you very much. Col. Djurovic was clear when we got the execution at 30.6. and it was visible that much would be missed. But I still believed that these trends that exist in those ministries where they were supposed to be creators that funds would still be spent, and consumers were still going to be lit up and framed. Well, I'd like to see which one of you bosses spends more than you let, so they'd probably sanction him if he couldn't get into what you gave him. A lot has been missed on certain items, but the messages we often hear are a blow to the consumer basket, you save citizens. And it's time the minister sharpened the pen to get away from us our salaries and beyond. All costs should be cut, wherever possible and almost all items possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59345	Here you go, Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59346	Dear colleague Bubalo, I don't blame you for telling the State Property Management Agency you know that it's merged and that it's DUDI now. But it is important to note, and I thank my fellow opposition who gave me the information the other day I heard from him that so far as the Croatian state has been established, only 5% of the property relations related to all the property that has the Republic of Croatia have been resolved. and therefore the funds have been increased so that all the problems that are and that all the projects that are staring at us are solved so that they can be put into function or sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59347	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59348	My colleague, either I was wrong or you weren't following my argument, but I may have made a mistake. DUDI reduces funds by 24% or millions of 667 thousand 284 kuna. I said I'd raise their funds but I say they're not doing anything, it's a bigger problem. Just before you said that only 5% of the assets were processed and put into operation, etc. That we're not talking about this right now. DUDI is one of the major problems of the Republic of Croatia. What do you think the damage in these 20s and a few years was caused just because it wasn't managed by state property in a quality way? There should be a serious debate sometime. What is perspective in Croatia, which is not perspective. While we're selling Croatia insurance and the property that isn't in office is in the Republic of Croatia and no one's taking care of it, then I wonder how much damage it's done. What I may not have touched was it short for me for 15 minutes, so you have a Public Private Partnership Agency as far as public partnerships have been realized? Maybe two. Then why do we need such an agency, and you have as many agencies as you want. Therefore, sharpen the pen, sharpen the pen, and cut. 180.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59349	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59350	You called your colleague Bubalo a ministry that should carry development and investment, so the Ministry of Economy, which has a submerge of minus 300 million kuna, entrepreneurship and crafts of minus 140 million kuna, agriculture minus 235 million kuna, maritime, transport, minus 225 million kuna, creatives. I'd say they're actually recreationals, so I'm correcting your allegations that they're recreational ministries. Those ministries you spoke of and Mr. Djurovic spoke well of I think that these salaries increased by 235 million kuna precisely because of the introduction of a verbal delinquent, I even heard that Bauhaus was saddened for having an all-for-home commercial. So the verbal delinquent was reintroduced into the Republic of Croatia after the 1990s. And another small correction, so the total public debt hasn't been increased since 2008 from 100 million to 200 million kuna, but from 100 billion kuna to 200 billion kuna, so that someone doesn't get the wrong picture of this government's work here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59351	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59352	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end of my colleague Grubisic, you're right, I may have mentioned 100 million in the heat of the debate, but clearly it's 100 billion and 200 billion and we're particularly concerned about the structure when we talk about foreign debt, it's 124 billion, domestic 72 billion. Therefore, we are certainly concerned about this, and you have just mentioned that the resolution ministries are recreational, but you did not mention regional development, which reduces 25%. There is therefore no uniform regional development, there is no policy of the Ministry of Regional Development, and we are not talking about European funds and our unpreparedness. Thus, in the following year, we can expect only worse results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59353	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59354	The esteemed colleague Bubalo here from the presentation one fell into my ear like this, one fact, and that's what you said on science you cut 40 million kunas. You have in 2011 when I quoted slogans from 2011 then colleagues and colleagues from the SDP became very upset that they could read these eerie messages that they had trampled normally, those who today look as funny as Monty Python seem to be reading today. Yeah. They say to export ideas and not smart youth they said in 2011, today smart youth exports, and no idea. Who's gonna get us out of this crisis? Earlier, Minister Linic said leaving the crisis is a long, complex job that should probably be done by qualified people. We still today consider investment in science, investment in spending education, not investment. How do we treat young people? 70,000 of them are unemployed, highly qualified people we send them to first school and we invest a lot of money in them and then we let them out abroad so that others are used by what they got in Croatia and we see nothing controversial about it. So tell me how you like this slogan to export ideas rather than smart youth in view of today's context and in view of today's practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59355	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59356	Thank you very much. Coliga Vukšić especially refers to Slavonia and Baranja, not only to export science to me, I would say to Europe, but often I have an example that those best sons and daughters are leaving Slavonia for Zagreb. And as the mind coming out of the Republic of Croatia in which we invested has been said before, we should try to stop it. But when we talk about a reduction of 40 million 136 thousand 525 kuna right on science and technological development it's the best investment that's sure to be multipled and that's what worries me. It has been missed on salaries and due to the loss of salaries, it is precisely what is vital, which is significant, which brings one better perspective, one better Croatia, one Croatia in which people will know how to write projects, in which they will speak languages in which they are certainly the best students or people who have finished colleges. Therefore, I do not like this thesis at all but it is not the thesis, it is Croatia's reality and reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59357	Thank you. Young Novak, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59358	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bubalo, I have to react to what you mentioned in Sisak-Moslavina County and that during yesterday you are familiar with 2 billion kuna investments and that you are familiar with through the media. Well, honestly, every investment that comes to that county normally on my behalf for reasons of local patriotism has been welcomed. But not just for that reason, but for years this county has been truly underinvested, neglected, simply on the verge of everything, always, what they say as a 13-hundred pig when it's just sitting there and it gets something. But, however, you are, at least as far as I know, you've been in politics for years. And I can't believe that the source of information to you is some medium, especially what it is, that medium didn't even create that news but just passed it on. Well, that's what you know when Grandma on the payroll says, is the child's truth is written in the paper. It's not all that writes exactly the truth. I'd like it to be more than that, but we're serious people, so I think some things have to tell you how real they are, how in the sense of some of their own promotions are said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59359	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59360	Thank you very much, dear colleague. In fact, yesterday I did follow the media, but today it was called the search for the truth. And it is your replica that is searching for the truth because I have estimated that two billion is impossible to invest in one county according to it, not all that is written in the media exactly and I have often come across it, but it is the opposite. But also when I watch investment in Slavonia and Baranja 5 Slavonsko-Baranja counties in the budget I found, for example, about Požega-slavonska County 6 million 479 thousand 164 kuna of these 272 million. Then surely I am expressing my concern for our region of Slavonia and Baranja for unequal development, for unrecognizable projects coming from our space. I did a little before congratulating those two billion because I knew it was impossible. Therefore, we expect a safe regional development and greater investment in Slavonia and Baranja and it is up to us all to seek the truth. And the truth says in 2010 about Slavonia and Baranja went a little more means than today, with the growth of deficits and the growth of budgets. It's the truth that worries me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59361	Thank you. And the last Ivan Shuker, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59362	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you mentioned the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And since this rebalancing is exclusively the accounting registration of what has been spent, it is therefore imposed itself that the Fiscal Responsibility Act has been violated. Because it makes it clear that no one can spend more than he's allowed. And at the same time, it's about how order was introduced, how there are no more riots in public finances, etc. However, when this budget rebalance is looked at a little bit, then some colleagues have already talked about it, so four economic ministries remain without a billion and 50 million. Now, colleague Bubalo, what do you think these ministers didn't create programs to spend that money, so they didn't spend it, or were certain incentives that were to be given over that resort, four resort ministries, and make sure that at least three of those resort ministries are clearly tanging Slavonia and Baranja are being delayed for some future time? Or let's say fellow Bubalo, and what would happen is that HZ received support as it had been given in previous years that this year, instead of this support, it did not give him 2.5 billion guarantees, to make a cost that would be mildly charged from the state budget at the time when it came to be charged because the Croatian railways would simply not be able to pay it. So the fiscal responsibility law has just been passed that what happened to this budget rebalance is not happening. However, when you look at this budget rebalance as the budget for next year, then I only get the horrors because this deficit will be a billion more and the one for 2014 will certainly be 3.4 billion more than proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59363	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59364	Thank you very much. A colleague of Shuker's fiscal responsibility law is not respected because it is certain that these ministers would already be punished then who have breached certain items. And there's a lot of talk about irresponsibility, especially when we're talking about irresponsibility. That's what I asked in my current class, which one of the ministers or directors of public systems was punished, so I didn't get an answer. But the budget has to be cut, I know well what budget cuts are because I had a chance behind my predecessor to get to 600 million, so I had to come to 404 million because it was reality. So I know it hurts, but just when you don't have another solution, then you have to do it. That is what awaits the Republic of Croatia soon. But when it comes to the four ministries, I think it's both of them, maybe it's just that not everyone did the competition, they didn't do the programs, but when it comes to agriculture, then in our envelope, we had the opportunity to give another billion kuna, not 300 and some million kunas taken. But I remember recently that Minister Linic said loans are being written off at HBOR. Well, people wouldn't be writing off loans if it was a respected business plan based on the prices and incentives they had three or four years ago. Therefore, not only the instability of the tax system but also the instability when we talk about the calculations of our producers, especially when we talk about incentives, they are certainly incomprehensible and how then man will produce and survive on the Croatian market. But you mentioned HZ earlier, the minister mentioned shipbuilding. I've never seen anyone vouch for agriculture before. I'm sure it would make me happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59365	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Fichor, colleagues and colleagues. So when the eighth one comes in for a debate in about 16.38 it would be said on behalf of the club you can often repeat yourself. We from the position of course want to point out, show and prove that this rebalancing is not good but that it is objective, necessary and that it is quality made, and then enter certain repetitions that have already been said through the debate of Mr. Minister, but also through various replicas. You'd say we've heard that before. Therefore, in the first introductory part on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to say, of course, that we will support this rebalancing and that it is essentially expressing what is clear and realistic and necessary in terms of both macroeconomic frameworks and not only the state of the budget, which is that the loss of CEFTA countries' markets in the second part of the year had an impact on the reduction of the revenues of the state budget, which is essentially the activity of the economy, but also on the difficulties of the export sector related to the transitional period of adaptation to the common market. That's the reality and that's what's certainly very difficult at a given moment, in a given situation, in this year was adequate.... It is also clear and clearly read from the figures of the structures itself of increasing the budget deficit, but I must repeat, of course, as a result of the restructuring of health and expenditure arising from EU membership, the impact of one-off measures around 1.5% of GDP, while the structural increase in the budget deficit is 0.7%. These are payments to the EU budget and the loss of customs revenue, a total of 2.2% of GDP. Without these deficits, we would be somewhere at 3.3% of the deficit at the general state level, which would be more than good anyway, but of course not. And what we often hear in public and here in Parliament when it is said that this coalition government leads through the budget, through inefficient economic policy, etc., etc., to lead us to Greece, then I wanted in the name of the club a clear statement of truth for and for the public what it is where we are and that we are far from such conditions and situations as are in Greece and similar countries. So these are the official absolute data of EUROSTAT. The budget deficit in the euro area is the impact of this rebalancing, the impact of this situation that we have to know that in fact in this situation it's not as bad as it's said and bad in the sense where it wants to put us. So the budget deficit in the euro area and the 28 member states of the European Union decreased in 2012 compared to years earlier, while public debt was increased, and the same trend was recorded by Croatia. This is shown by the statistical office EUROSTAT's report. The budget deficit in the 17 euro area members was shown by the share in GDP in 2012 on average above 3.7% and last year... 28, last year was 3...% of GDP, it was higher in 2011. 4.4%. According to this fiscal report, the budget deficit calculated by the European Statistical Office methodology last year was 5% of GDP, much less than it was remembered in 2011 when it was 7.8%. It shows that the share of Croatia's budget deficit in GDP in 2012, as well as the average deficit in the euro area is above the annual average rate and above the allowed limit according to Maastricht criteria, that is clear, but that is why we are moving on. On the other hand, public debt, 17 euro area member states and 28 EU member states observed in relation to GDP last year has been increased than it was a year earlier. Thus, the euro area averaged 90.6% of GDP. So public debt, 17 member states and looking at 28 members of the European Union 90.6% of GDP, public debt late last year. Our public debt, the share of public debt in GDP, should be 8.1%) in 2013. So we're way below and we're still below that famous 60 percent limit right now. Among the 28 EU member states, the lowest budget deficit shown in GDP was recorded by Estonia and Sweden, and while Germany had this we all know the growth of 0.1% of GDP, the budget surplus. Also, according to the reports of the national statistical offices of the Member States published by EUROSTAT on its page 17 member states included Croatia had a shortfall, which we said more than 3%, with the largest recorded in Spain 10.6%. Then Greece 9%, Ireland 8.2%, Portugal and Cyprus with 6.4%. I remind you in 2011, according to this EUROSTAT methodology, Croatia was 7.8%. Therefore, Croatia is far below these amounts and those of some, let's say, so critical countries. So Croatia is located in a group of 15 countries which essentially indicates that we are in one environment, I will not tell the gold, there is no talking about the golden environment, but it can be said about one middle of the EU average at the time of the euro area and obviously Croatia from the crisis. As for public debt, the lowest level was among the 28 EU members Estonia of 9.8%, then Bulgaria 18.5, Luxembourg 21.7, Romania 37.9. It's just relationships to see where, what and how. In 14 EU member states, public debt exceeded 60% of GDP. So in 14 members he exceeded, and the highest allowed level these are interesting believe amounts were recorded in Greece 156.9% of GDP, Italy 127%, Portugal 124%, Ireland 117.4%, etc. Therefore, what is important by comparing this rebalancing, including the deficit, including public debt with EU countries, by considering projections and growth of gross products and public sector investment and restructuring, which apparently started with a delay in restructuring and reforms that started somewhere in the larger segment, somewhere in the smaller sector, it is quite clear. It's also read, read from this rebalance. But what is crucial is all the reforms started and the trend and expectations for growth and growth in gross products, for growth in production, for employment growth is quite clear not only that it will be visible in 2014 but it will be completely positive that Croatia will no longer be in recession and I believe that at that moment, the key element called both personal consumption and the positive optimism that must be in one country to move forward will be realised and that Croatia can come out of the crisis. And by doing so, the budget and the budgeting and all those expenditures that we are obliged to do, which are important in order to maintain fiscal discipline, on the other hand, to ensure all those obligations that we need from the social, health, pensions, etc. that in the end and not only pensions through indexation, but also wages can grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59367	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59368	Thank you very much. Col. Gjurkovic, you've said a lot of things and your exposure would say that in the Republic of Croatia, everything is really booming, that real demagogy, the sale of fog is actually when you compare Croatia with some EU countries and you present data on debt, the state of public debt, etc. And you know for yourself that many of our young people go to work both in Ireland and Italy, and they, they have these coefficients much greater than allegedly the Republic of Croatia. You were also talking about this public, total public debt of about 200 billion kuna and you said it was 60% of GDP somewhere. But believe me, by the new year, it will certainly go much more at the pace that is currently going on and on about this total public debt. By the new year, we can expect a 60 percent transfer. When you talk about health care. Well, health care and what you're saying about him is better off keeping your mouth shut. Namely, the minister from your government, your coalition has reduced its contribution to health insurance by 15, with 13% saving of course the economy 2 billion and 600 million kuna, and just as much is currently said in this debalancing report, so this is not rebalance, this is imbalance as reintegration or disintegration, and rebalancing and imbalance. So, budget failure, that's what it's all about. He's a real imbalance. So that's exactly how much the health ministry missed those 2 billion and 600 million kunas you're talking about right now. And what did you do? With the transfer of money allegedly to the economy you have minuses in everything possible as my colleague said to the inventive ministries that should be inventive and pull the investments forward...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59369	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59370	All right, come on, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59371	My colleague Gjurkovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59372	Dear colleague, you say at the end of your line as a transfer of money to the economy, etc. Well, the key to developing this country is the economy. What stands out not only for unemployment, but for economic resources to facilitate their business and development, stimulation, investment, competitiveness is one of the key policies of this government that 3.3 billion should not have been covered by health debts could certainly have gone to other investments, but had to. But on the other hand, it is not that it has sacrificed the economy crucially for the purpose of covering health, but it is done in other ways, and all this is the only way for the development economy to grow and work. And there's no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59373	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59374	Oh, thank you. So here's a colleague I congratulate you for really finding two statistical indicators and proving to us that in the Republic of Croatia it's not as bad as all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia seem. It really needs to work. And what is especially about the public debt and how much is its share is how much it makes the percentage of the percentages in GDP you may have yet to refer to the United States and Japan that have a significantly higher share of public debt than GDP and then tell us that Croatia is more economically and significantly stronger than the United States and Japan. Because they do have a much higher percentage of public debt compared to GDP, for example, compared to the Republic of Croatia. And they would end up pulling one parallel and showing our economic conditions. So, as logic is science that can prove that an elephant can hang a string of cliffs of grass by sticking to the trunk, so is statistics science that really in exact ways various data processing can prove that it is what it is and is not what it is. This depends only on what kind of methodology you will apply and what you will apply to prove. But if we look back at the reality in which we live then we will really see that our reality is what it is and that Croatian citizens live worse, that the Republic of Croatia is in the fifth year of recession. What EU country today has reduced the fifth year of recession without any sign of economic growth? That's not one. So, it's almost illusory, I may not be good at times, not bad at the position of the ruling coalition to send a message to optimism but our reality, I think it's better to face it realistically and to look at it in this rebalancing and budget for the next year which we can really do realistically and not fool ourselves with something that doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59375	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59376	Therefore, as far as economic growth is concerned, he is clear and clear. You don't see it, I believe very soon you will be given that you don't believe in numbers then you will probably also when growth says it's not growth because we play with numbers is it and EUROSTAT. To know where we are, we have to compare. Your messages, often you from your club say we're like Greece or I don't know who. That is why we have to compare ourselves with the figures based on the same methodologies that Croatian citizens know that Croatia is not the worst but that it is really in the middle of the European countries whose member we are, where we share both the market and economic development and where together we should actually get out of the recession with our data and this rebalancing and deficit and public debt being those that can be resolved much easier and easier than in many other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59377	Thank you. And Kresimir Bubalo Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59378	Thank you very much. When we talk about the movement and structure of public debt it's not nice to mention Greece because it doesn't need to be an example because we had people on the street there, you shouldn't call people on the street. But when we see the figures from 2008 where the stake from 29 came to 60% of the share in GDP and we estimate that next year we'll almost get to 70 and then you can see where we're going. It's calling people on the street like in Greece, and that's what we don't want. That's why cuts need to start now to work, to control costs on the spending side, and looking at this diagram of our share and borrowing that has come to a very high 200 billion kuna, then we can only express concern because if this trend continues, Greece is not far away.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59379	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59380	Well then, I will not only mention Greece, but also Italy, Portugal and Ireland, which have a double public debt compared to Croatia. What is now being done is essentially balance and bring to the truth and the state budget and public debt and growth and economic growth, i.e. the growth of gross products, of course, that all these things should be dropped together, i.e. to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59381	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59382	Thank you very much, Vice President. So no matter what happens here today, for and against, I still think that the Republic of Croatia is a wonderful big project that needs to be continued to work on. Each of us is invited to participate, we in opposition, those in power from their positions, ministers from their own, and every citizen and journalist to contribute to making it look better every day. However, it is clear that when something is done, mistakes are possible. Who's doing this and making mistakes. A mistake should be admitted and tried to find the right way. However, the problem with this government is that, for example, the finance minister does not want to admit his mistake, but always finds faults in some other governments in a particular way. That's what we're dealing with, but not just with him, but it's become some kind of activity that all the ministers within this government are dealing with, and it's the prime minister himself. Although he confessed publicly and said that all mistakes were made, all successes and failures were actually the successes and failures of this government and so were this budget. This is the tenth government in 23 years, and many experts say it is the most unknowing of all so far because it goes the wrong way. So is this 2013 budget. He went optimistic, went with good announcements but ended up in the wrong direction, again many say there will be a minus, the finance minister says there will be plus and so we mention ourselves plenty of it annually. However, the very fact that for the fifth time in two years we are discussing the state budget, twice on the budget, three times on rebalancing shows that our officials at the Ministry of Finance and all the experts are able to assess our wishes, our goals, that simply all these budgets go wrong despite good intentions but with misjudges. Sometimes these estimates seem to me like the polls that every little Mislav Bago shows us on TV, so this one's worth this much, it's worth as much, but it always leaves that one small moment and says it's all within a statistical error, so it can be 3% more and 3% less, so our budget can grow 2%, but it can also fall and minus 2%. It's the same statistical error, but I'm back to the citizens again. What do they even have from the budget? They say we've paid our salaries, we've paid our pensions, all the social benefits you'd like, if we're a successful government, we are. Who at all can doubt whether the government is successful or not, but then they were successful and until now because they paid for it, all of it, all of it, all of it's pensions, nobody's been late or paid. But when we get to those criteria, yet this government says we're successful, these were failed before, so when something grew, it was a disaster. Let's remember 305,000 of the president of the state called for consultations in Pantovac, let's destroy the government, we want early elections, a bad economic situation, and we should have joined the EU, we should have completed the negotiations, but consultations have been called. Today, at 360, neither mentions nor attempts, nor calls on one thematic session of the government to say what he thinks about the situation in the Republic of Croatia, are we going in the right direction? It says 70% of that poll that we're going in the wrong direction, this government. Now whomever I trust more when these statistical errors can be like this and like that. What do the citizens have next? They have the right to pay everything in order in that state budget. Not all benefits, pensions or salaries from the budget but all have an obligation to pay in that budget. Every once in a while some kind of writer comes along, everybody needs to contribute something. It's just that somehow it's coming true. I have recently calculated how poor we have remained at the average family level at the annual level, about 9,000 which is paid to cut wages, which is to raise various taxes, cost of life, energy, per family per year about 9,000 kuna. All of this has been agreed in the budget of state, public enterprises, municipal enterprises and we need to establish that everything is almost done as planned. Today we met with doubt whether GDP growth or decline has any impact on the budget? He can be, or he can have influence or he can't and has no influence. Both are true because we see that no matter how GDP falls, the budget is achieved almost within the framework as set out. Is that possible? Possiblely, if we reach into the pockets of Croatian citizens to compensate for this GDP decline and they are neat, every day they are called to come to the FINU, the mail, the bank, to pay for what they have and the GDP falls, where we see it, at the unemployment office, there we see the impact of the GDP, we see the impact of the investment cycle, we see the impact of all those economies that this government has left for billions. They became an additional ten thousand more in the employment office last year at the same time. Well, then, there's something wrong. Obviously from the recognition of the finance minister today, this tax policy has not achieved any effect, he said that the revenues of this budget are exclusively the result of the introduction of order and discipline, which can lead us to conclude that we have not raised the VAT rate, that we have not changed all these strong tax laws so that the impact with better charge discipline is almost the same as before. Personally, I believe that the policy itself that achieves the objectives set has the right to ask citizens for additional denials. But I really don't see whether this policy is achieving its goals. We recently had an economic forum in Opatija. It was indeed saddened that none of the governments in charge of economic affairs were present at the meeting. The government sent them a message, gentlemen experts. We don't respect you. Your knowledge is no use to us. That's not a good way to go. I don't think you should have done it that way. The Prime Minister had a place there, I think, and the Minister of Finance, and they heard from those people what they had to say. The problem is that expenditures of 125 billion when spent simply do not bring about almost any new values. We're going to spend 125 billion this year, we don't have new infrastructure, no state port will be completed by the end of a mile of railways, highways full stop, Peljeski bridge where it's been, regional development is gone. Regional development simply doesn't exist. I'm thinking that this Regional Development Ministry is actually calling the Ministry of Regional Depreciation because when you look at the budget rebalancing, he's managed to lose another 140 million kuna in just seven months, so he's now at the historical lowest level of 680 million kuna. And then we're all fighting in that EU, we're all drilling into our chests, we say that's the most important money, it's the EU's benefit. Take a look at the item on the implementation of the preparation and implementation of EU projects. Of 34 planned million kunas realized only 12. 22 million taken from the Ministry of Regional Development on the most important part of the preparation and implementation of European projects. And then we wonder why we have no more than 10m euros or 100m euros but we have a deficit in the part we are talking to the EU about payments and payments. Of the 450m euros planned for the first year or half of the membership, we withdraw to the budget 0 euros, but we are missing that ISPA is something better than it has been for the past two years, not to talk about EIB 2 loans, EIB 3, EIB 3 for the continental part is not being launched at all. We've got 50 million realisations planned. I hear he's giving up the loan will be paid for the fine and the penalty. Intercal interest and that loan are no longer available.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59383	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59384	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you started introducing your debate that basically everyone means a position to me, the opposition should contribute to development, etc., and after that in your text I have not seen any of your contributions at all, with the expected criticism that it is not good that this is not good, etc. And then it touched me when you said you can't see from this rebalancing no new value, no harbors are built, no Peljek Bridge is built, etc. Well then it reminded me essentially how you obviously thought that the budgets should work, which is that you have to finance everything from the budget. Although you have criticised certain things in the budget in the sense that there is no development and for projects, this government has clearly focused on preparing projects and withdrawing funds from EU funds, creating investors with conditions for investment, and not on financing directly from the budget, because we are essentially getting a much better quality effect or getting a better and better quality multiplier for the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59385	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59386	Well, I've invited a colleague, and I think we're all doing it, and the criticism is part of that effort to make this country better. Sometimes it's what individuals do, it's what they try to do. Here's the people through the referendum trying to do what he thinks is best. That's what we'll see how it all ends. But as far as this other part is concerned, I'm telling you that we're still going to spend 125 billion. Such expenditures are planned for this year. Did something come out of it? We can see that's not what I warned you about. I would like to say that Luka Gaženica is finished that she is starting her own economic cycle to start working, that the construction of the river-Zagreb-Botovo railway has started to build at least those projects we left behind. Here is the Zagreb Airport of Great Recommendations appear in major strategic infrastructure projects where the HNS was the leader and said so we will have this external investment, especially in energy you remember these announcements. Well, we haven't been able to produce in a year, two years, so kilowatt hours of that energy, we're still importing as much or as much as we've imported into it because of the problem. Because when you say something, credibility requires you to do it. And you can't say, and then you'll be credible by not making it happen. Here we point to mistakes and show that we should say this item on the preparation and implementation of EU projects that should be given to all local self-governments. What's going on? Technical assistance is only given to local self-government where the SDP is in power. Why don't you give us where HDZ is in power to have the same technical assistance and get to those funds as soon as possible. This is how we make use of those funds. Here's to this year, unfortunately, you'll admit it's zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59387	New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59388	Thank you very much. You spoke well of the lack of even regional development and investment, but what is very symptomatic is that the Rural Development Strategy offered by the Minister of Agriculture Brussels was returned to Brussels as a naughty, incomplete faka strategy would be said to be English. And when you talk about raising the deficits in the RS budget, then this morning I heard from a colleague from the SDP that the deficit was increased due to three things. This is a participation, so Croatia is the EU, the second is a participation in the design of projects and third interest. Now we have heard from the Minister of Regional Development, Mr. Greek, that we have even withdrawn 6m euros more than we have paid. And in total, we paid 240 million euros or it would be exactly a billion and 800 million kuna for 2013, and we only withdrew 6 million that's 4% more than we paid. Our expectations and what you said 4.5 billion are far off shores and far reaching that should be achieved but unfortunately none of it. That's why I think it would be better for the government to step down than for Greece to come and welcome us to Greece and those scenes we saw in Greece, so we watch them today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59389	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59390	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I do not believe that there will be Greece here because no matter what, we have had more difficult moments than those in which we are, so there was always one critical mass but both the people and the leadership who went and different from what would have been expected. But we're talking about funds. The division of the Ministry of Regional Development, which is smaller than the Ministry of Culture, shows that this government does not want to see regional development as something important for its overall economic growth, development and building all necessary infrastructures. Because the Ministry of Culture has over 700 million kuna budgets. And it's not right for many local self-governments that today have hundreds of projects that I can't even get a promise for. We have and this shows the results in the budget of several loans. We've got... 1, 2, 3 relating to the coasts and islands, this second one refers to continental Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and on these loans are paid interest on these loans there is a commitment of this State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you come to the Ministry of Regional Development you have a project, they tell you to wait for the funds. Then in order to get to the funds you have to have technical assistance and some suggestions, you have to prepare the necessary documentation then cut the funds, here they don't give you any of these 32 million we'd rather return them to budget 22 than let you have them to help you. And we are all aware that we would have an investment cycle of 7 billion kuna per year, as far as we can get from EU funds, we have to have 16 billion kuna projects in place somewhere. You know how much that is? In order to take advantage of everything in a year, you have to have at least double, at least twice as many projects. Because if he's planned on seven, he's certainly not going to get all seven. And they're known sizes. Unfortunately, however, we neither use loans to the end nor the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59391	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59392	Mr. President. You spoke of how many Croatian citizens were taken because of the increase in taxes and the increase in the price of basic energy. So, despite VAT being raised by 8.8% and, in such a way, around 3.2 billion revenues were made to most of the money were paid by Croatian citizens in principle. Also, about 400 million people again paid the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through an increase in gas excise duties. However, it is very interesting that this energy price increase package, so when the current went 30% then it was said to be done because HEP was consolidated, HEP, which showed a billion-and-a-half kuna in the previous year. And that HEP will be the bearer of investments that will invest so much and so much. And now watch the price of electricity has remained with this kind of little empowerment this year practically at the same level, however, from the investments of HEP nothing. And since these investments are missing, there are poor macroeconomic indicators and the revenue side of the budget is worse. The increase in gas, the price of 35% and now it is very interesting 60% of the gas in Croatia for the needs of Croatian citizens and the Croatian industry is being pumped into wells that keep INA under control. And very interestingly, so the price of gas rises 36% and now someone's talking about the gas business, this, that. So the question now needs to be asked to those who manage INA how much profit they make this year with the basis of an increase in the price of gas 36% because it's not like when the price of gas was almost twice as cheap. Prices of heating 37% increase in practically not counting Split and Rijeka the four largest cities and also went the price of water up. All that together when you add up somewhere around 7 billion kuna and then someone else to cover this minus on the income side plans to introduce a real estate tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59393	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59394	Thank you very much. Well, it's a good thing we're in opposition to that because we don't have any other instruments. And I recently calculated on an average family of 9,000 and I asked the prime minister what he thought about it, he wouldn't answer me, he prefers to talk about other things. These are facts, so somewhere, you said between 7 and 9 billion kuna a year is an additional burden on the citizens' pocket. It doesn't go into the budget, one part goes to public companies. And there's the biggest part of what they've missed in the economy that they've taken in that energy increase because they've all grown one big part of it, too. Why are some Senj, Molve, I don't know Kosinj etc., there's nothing, there's nothing of the famous Plomin C, there's nothing of any hydro or thermal power plant but we have a nice new building for HEP management. The building came from a decision to restructure 1300 people by seductive severances that passed over 250 thousand kunas, 250 kunas on which the loan was raised. With all this I say price hike and the installers have been fired, engineers who create and develop this company to make up for hear otherwise the other staff that should be entered into that company. What's happening to us as a problem? I'm from the island of Rab, and there's an isolated plant of HEP that worked over 45 people, and today there are 16 of them. There are 16 of them, so when something happens, I don't want to talk about what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59395	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59396	Dear counterpart Boris, I am really glad that you noticed that the debate on budget rebalancing has returned to the Croatian Parliament. Because as we know and can confirm to you fellow Schucker, so for the term of office of the HDZ government in 2011, it wasn't the case, the rebalancing was working on the government. Why? It's been done a dozen times. So, you worked away from the eyes of the public. So this government has nothing to hide. So we want the public to be familiar with everything about the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59397	Answer, is there an answer? There is. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59398	Thank you very much, President. A colleague, Neklic, is not true because it cannot be brought to the government or adopted, he can refer as a proposal to the parliament. In 2011, there was no need for rebalancing even though it was before its adoption while the SDP was declared an opposition as a budget that is a pest for Croatia. The prime minister himself said that minus 2% of GDP is the lack of any state policy. I think he probably means it today because if there was a lack of state policy then it's also today when the minus is the same thing. We can't think of the same situation differently. I will not say that he then called the IMF to 305,000 unemployed, that there were consultations in Pantovac, all in the course of negotiations and attempts to end this goal of entering the European Union. These are the only relevant facts, the truth. And if the government were to make a budget, that's not true. The government can propose it, and this home will either adopt it or not adopt it. Can I have it? What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, okay. I told you everything, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59399	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would refer to the presentation of my colleague, Boric, who spoke about this particular budget and who did not really show any of what was said a year ago. The best indicators are, here are a few ministries here, which in their budgets, so at the beginning of this year based their optimism on the development of the economy, on the development of entrepreneurship, and in the best possible way, say that this is not the case. First of all, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has nothing to do with or has something to do with the ministry and with the development of the economic base, is increasing its budget by 235 million kuna, and on the other hand, which we saw through the implementation of the budget for the first six months. In six months, the Department of crafts carried out their budget with 10%. In the best possible way, they show today where they reduced their budget, which was 700 million kuna for 140 million kuna. Well esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we wonder how and in what way we will strengthen both crafts and entrepreneurship and generally economic development if the Ministry of crafts reduces the budget by 140 million, if the Ministry of Regional Development also reduces its 780 million by 134 million. So of course we're wondering where the European funds are, how and how we're going to hire people. This really says that stagnation is not only a repressive policy but an economic stagnation, and that is why we are increasing every day by an increasing number of unemployed people at the Employment Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59401	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59402	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lucic, I have rightly warned the ministry because it is not logical that in just two years the same ministry falls by nearly 500 million kuna opportunities, it is 500 million kuna opportunities for local self-government to create a specific project. We can imagine each of the 500 local self-governments making only one, that's 500 projects for us. This is how we look for investors individually in other countries, anywhere, just to start any small project. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Regional Development prefers the role of spending less than achieving a certain set goal. Because if you have two loans such as EIB3 for the coasts and islands one and the continental part of Croatia, one is now realised, one for the coasts and islands, and the other is abolished. This is not correct according to local self-government in the continental part, so let it be carried out because the funds are favourable, interest is favourable. They were taken with a five-year delay. The Parliament discussed these documents and accepted them. And it would be good if each local self-government had the opportunity to finance their own projects and from these loans, and that European funds were just a substitute and more quality, that they were doing something in this transitional period of the local self-government. We have been completely blocked for two years and you can hardly see in any local self-government that anything is happening, and the Ministry of Regional Development had two years ago, 2011 a billion-and-a-half kuna budget, and now we compare the possibilities two years ago and today. That's 100% less resources for no reason at all. That should've been left behind, and I'm sure we'd have much better results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59403	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59404	Dear fellow Boric, although you and I are on ideologically opposed sides, it is good to ask about new values, whether they are created at this time or whether they are creating new values in Croatia at all. Actually, you have to wonder what we're making. But you should also ask yourself what it is made by pets of conversion and state affairs, for example, what they have created new, say Ivica Mudrinić or Jure Radic, I always like to speak with examples because people then realize, not entrenched and unmoved. What did the new ones create? On which projects were successful outside of Croatia, and how the Croatian state treated them at a time when they were favored by the government. After that, we know that neither of them are so-called. The great managers have done nothing in particular to create new values. In Croatia, structural problems in the economy are very large and you are rightly wondering about the newly created values in which the distinction between the state and private investors should be made. However, we must not often be unfair to the state and expect everyone from the state, and of those people who, who are countries in this past period, have freed different donations from them, we must not really have any expectations. Because if they create a new value, they create nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59405	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59406	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I would not agree with you in that part of whether they are creating or not. The problem in this society is that those who create themselves are difficult or not seen at all. In this society you can only see politics and every medium written, printed, as we will, the audio is only obsessed with politics and politicians. I believe there are many very good entrepreneurs in Croatia. I've been seeing something happen lately in these media outlets, their success stories. Is HT better than it was? It's a 15 billion kuna market, we've been discussing the HACOM report recently. It's very little interest to discuss that market here. However, this government, for example, has forgiven the SMS tax to raise three percentage points of VAT and take the same money, which is a market for 15 billion kuna and hotelers for 9. For me it would be fair to take them, they are still able, they have high profits, we introduce, we return that tax to SMS and so all of us are let's tell the talks today cheaper. It is the only benefit I can see entering the EU and I don't see that there could have been the first or the second in that company I don't know what much more. Maybe he could, maybe he could have left 500 more employees, so we wouldn't have a problem with the customer service. Maybe that. But I think the government wrongly shared its priorities and far more just would have taken that tax on SMS than 300 million kunas of larger VAT to hotelers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59407	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59408	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I'm going to continue on to a little earlier here debate and replica about whether it was a rebalancing, why the rebalancing, etc. It's true God every time someone proposes a rebalancing so they defend him and... which is defended by maltenes putting themselves in a position to do something bad, that's how we didn't plan well, so now we're fixing it, so we need to defend it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see that the rebalancing is that, but the rebalance is that it wouldn't be every year by now. And it's common in these times that simply all things and all things can be predicted in advance. One year when there was no rebalancing and that was tonight's words here that was in 2011 when HDZ didn't want to come here in the Parliament to come to a rebalancing, which is equally understandable because in the election year it doesn't need to show citizens how badly it is managed and how bad state finances stand. It needs to be hidden under the carpet. In order not to lose the election, however, the elections are still lost but here are the problems and all the data that were then tried to hide have come to light, so we see that that year here is the largest deficit in history recorded in Croatia, which is 25 billion. So, the rebalancing needs to be accepted perfectly normal to see what's spent more, where it's more stuffy and what's to be done. When it comes to this rebalancing expenditure, the truth is, God is bigger by three, I'm rounding up three and a half billion. It's not small, three and a half billion isn't small, it's more spent than it's got. However, if we look at only one item that makes the rebalancing work, which is the recovery of the Health Sector that has been visited by 3.3 billion, then we will see that there has been no recovery of healthcare, in fact, there would be no higher expenditure than planned. And these health debts, that health recovery dates back to the previous years of HDZ rule. Let me remind you, the situation with 31.12.2011, so at the end of HDZ's rule, health debts were 5.2 billion. And now it's trying to get rid of it, and that's why these expenditures are bigger, and that's why this rebalancing is. Not just for that, but for that. We are left with a billion and 800 to resuscitate in county hospitals, but we will see this later or, for example, higher expenditures in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. For example, 494 million kunas, almost half a billion for pensions. Yes, because it was consciously going into the indexation of pensions that how much of these pensions are followed by salary, inflation, etc. 'Cause they're so miserable. Could it have happened without it? Of course, spending could have been lower for that amount, but then pensioners wouldn't get it. You should have done it. Or more expenditure than two hundred fifty million are planned for the unemployed. Was that supposed to happen? Well, it is, because it's all about employment incentives, employee benefits, because it's about those young people who work for 1600 kuna. No one could have predicted how many there would be. Obviously, there were more of them than planned. Is that where the money was supposed to be? Of course you should have. For example, we have a true god in the ministry, for example, more than 580 million for salaries went to some of the ministries. Of course it's not good, but it's gone. It went to teachers, teachers, teachers, people who work in schools, colleges, it went to them. It didn't go to the SDP's party register or to Fimi-media as before the public money went. This still went to people. There di could have been saved, so for example, we see 370 million were saved on a material cost, and we have both paper and everything. Therefore, the state is functioning but has been saved well. For example, when it comes to the Ministry of Finance, which is most responsible for the budget, there's a folk's mess at its doorstep, I see they've been well swept. They've saved on salaries almost 15 million, on services to some, and they're still doing well. And without the services that were previously paid, and now they're not still paying, they're still doing the job, but better than before. Or at the IRS, 26 million were saved on services. And no one can say that the IRS is doing worse than she did, though. If we've made a major shift in something in this last year, and that's a better tax charge. The revenues are lower, too, is by 3 billion are smaller. Rounding, 2 billion and 850. And of course the part is because we don't have the expected economic growth we're planning, we're not hiding it. Surely there is one that would be very likely and... on that basis the tax would be higher. However, more consumption would be, etc. But this year, did we deliberately cut our budget revenues somewhere at 950 million, almost a billion kuna, by providing catering services, so we reduced VAT from 25 percent to 10% for food and drink services? Yes, we could've not had a billion as well as before. Or, for example, we kept a still reduced rate of contribution to health, so we missed 2 billion "miss" under quotes to take if we were working as before, we'd be more income. We have freed the reinvested profit of paying taxes, and here we have "missed" under quotes to income depending on how we measure a billion and a half to two billion kunas. Why? Because we said we didn't want to treat the same profit that a shareholder or owner puts in his pocket as the one that's going to reinvest. We want them not treated equally. What goes in your pocket is to pay taxes, and what will be reinvested and will go into core capital on the fact that there is no tax, that the state does not tax, that it does not punish people who want to develop and invest in their capital. And so the capitalisation of companies is very low. In 2001 it was 55%, now somewhere at 34% for 20 index points it fell. And if we shut down the public sector, then it would probably fall to 20%. Therefore, it is obvious that the need for the state to stimulate more capitalisation of businesses because this is really hard to go. Or, for example, income is smaller than VAT and customs, which we knew was due to EU accession which was not available in the previous years and previous years. There were more revenues and on this basis and than customs, but we entered the EU, we wanted to be aware of that. I'm just saying that if we applied the same methods... as before the incomes would, or, for example, during the HDZ government, the revenues would be a few billion more, but the question of what would be the consequences for the economy? Surely, it would be worse because the task of every responsible authority is not to stick to the people's style while the masters leave, be it good while we are in power, while this year goes well, and while our mandate is to patch up all the holes and then be a god himself knows, but rather the tasks of responsible authorities and we hold that we are to create assumptions for development, to make decisions, laws, and tax laws, and both here and here in the Parliament and in the Government to lead such an economic policy that has no purpose but to fill the budget, of course we should fill it too, but that will provide and encourage development. And all these measures I've been talking about are going that way. And now someone's going to say I've heard it a hundred times, yes, but you still don't have positive growth rates of 2, 3, 1 percent. We haven't, but if we hadn't done and applied these economic policy measures that we've put in place safely to make economic growth rates negative and somewhere at 3, 4 maybe 5%. Therefore, we are trying to save what is given because when the economic system is systematically collapsed for years and it is destroyed because of the external circumstances and the poor economic policy and economic policy that the previous government had then, of course, it is difficult to change it for a year or two. For something to crash is enough very little time, it takes a lot more time to build. So, if it was a bad thing to do bad at least one term, it takes at least two to fix it. I hope we get a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59409	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have two replicas. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59410	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jelusic, I've been listening very carefully, I haven't been able to tell you that you've found any mistake in all this. It's just that this rebalancing wasn't really necessary because it was actually well planned all over again, all of the moves were well taken and we're having a little debate because it ran away somewhere a billion on salaries and something a little over here on some other items, etc., etc. There were mistakes, and you have to admit that as the minister himself said some things should be fixed. But what makes today's reduction in health contributions by 2.5 billion a year, and in 4 years, it's a 10 billion good move if we come back, we have to charge the interest of 6%? What makes the VAT reduction, as you say, of catering services from 25 to 10, and immediately, in the same year, the increase to 13 is good when the minister himself says that he threw 2 billion obviously not to be in debt by 2 billion dollars per interest of 6%? It's big decisions and we really sometimes wonder if it's the height of the economic knowledge we have today at the government level. And that economy can't function, and it doesn't understand that 10 billion, and this year we're going to have 10 grand more unemployed at the office than last year at the same time. So we're approaching the numbers last year, i.e. In February, there were 372,000, which means that in 2014 there will be about 385 thousand at least. It's a trend that doesn't change, regardless of what you've been saying all along, that this economy should have taken these measures to help, and all those huge notes and all the credits, and it couldn't get any better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59411	Replica response, respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59412	Comrade Boric, you have unconsciously told one great truth where we differ. You said why don't we collect that income from the profit tax, from the health care contributions instead of borrowing. Yes, that's true, we could have collected those money and less debt, but we didn't spend this money, and it's productive when you're in charge of development, which is what we do, unlike you who are, you didn't invest in the economy, you're in charge of consumption, and that's where we differ, that's right. So that's where we differ, so we want to work rationally, not paint tunnels three times, but once if it's necessary and we need to be in charge of development, not consumption, and that's where we differ. And as for the mistakes, you said that I didn't list any of our mistakes, and I am yours, so I did list some of our mistakes in terms of what we shouldn't have spent, but I counted yours as well. But here I am glad that you and not only the citizens see your mistakes because they are much bigger than ours, so you only notice yours, ours, because they are ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59413	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Jelusic's said you should not look at it if I understand the rebalancing negatively because there are possible mistakes. Of course no one slows it down, mistakes are certainly possible but this was a huge mistake, three billion on incomes and three billion on expenditures, which is about 6 billion and 60% on budget. And then you mentioned a medical recovery, so I'm going to remind you one more time, let's say that healthcare was spent by June of this year on about $1 billion and now it's about a billion and 150 million. When it's a billion and 700 million kuna, then the payment deadlines that got close to 360 days, what do you think they're going to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59415	Replica response, respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59416	What a mistake it is to have higher expenditures for three and a half billion we don't have to quantify but I'll just repeat that there was no recovery of debts in health care that amounted to 3.3 billion and that's almost the same as more expenditure than planned, so we spent more than three and a half months, but we gave three, three, three billion dollars for the health care of the debts left by your government. We should've done that, we did. Could we have rescheduled that before? No, we only later saw what debts were left, only last year around this time we passed the Restitution Act, only this year we were able to carry out the rehabilitation. So, that's a lot, I agree that this number is big, but that's the number you created, not us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59417	Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate in this matter. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59418	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and Mr. Deputy. So here's after a whole day's debate, we're unfortunately running away from the facts of the truth again, and the biggest problem of that run is going to break into our heads and create problems for us in 2014. So I'm going to try to direct my debate a little bit in another direction, talk about facts, not political throws. So it is evident that this budget rebalancing is late for a number of reasons, for the simple reason that with this rebalance the budget will generally not change anything. Unfortunately, and I will talk about this later, the expenditure side remains what Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy are having a hard time financing. So with this budget rebalancing, we are talking about because the Parliament will ultimately adopt it just accepting accountingly what happened, the mistakes that happened and the measures that were not able to implement it in 2013 but I say 2013 is behind us and the minister knows best what problems he was digesting. However, the key problem of this budget which it is on its expenditure and also on the revenue side is set up for 2014 and very little room for any shifts and ultimately when you look at the draft budget for 2014 then you will see that, unfortunately, it is a fact that it is true because the expenditures are such and the deficit is much higher. So the budget is the main instrument and the main deposit for one government's economic policy. So, what did this government want? This government wanted, with certain tax changes, to relieve the economy, on the other hand, of the tax burdens on someone else, and what finally happened? In the end, it happened that we lost 5.6 billion on the income side because I said it the other day and I'm standing there, these big tax procedures just have to work in a package. You can't if you have the idea that you're going to do something out of this package to leave out one law and then unfortunately the result on the income side is what it is. Now I'm going to take the turn. So the first decision was made to raise VAT from 23% to 25%. This is an increase of about 8.8% and ultimately raised inflation in 2012 to 4% and this is not counting the start of the economic and financial crisis the biggest inflation in Croatia in the last 15 years. They are also due to certain Directives and to what excise duties have been raised on certain products, and ultimately these excise duties are also very generous budget revenues but are collected. Income tax is also increased. We can talk that we've increased the untaxable part but we've reduced the classes by which a certain rate is taxed. So sometimes 10 grand and something else was taxed with a 25% rate, and now it's basically taxing 6 grand and 400 or 6 grand and 800. So we also raised income tax. Did the reinvested profit push entrepreneurs into investments? Unfortunately, this is not seen by all macroeconomic indicators. I continue to argue that many entrepreneurs, and most of them have been knowingly doing business and taking care of their company over the past years, have kept the profits and used those funds as the cheapest craftsmanship that could have been obtained on the market, and those who have shown great profits, we have signed with their countries of origin a double tax avoidance agreement, and they are generally not tangled. But we proposed therefore the government proposed it even though I immediately spoke about this law that unfortunately it would not achieve effect. Why? When you say 2% of the health contribution and you say it's somewhere around 2 billion 600, 2 billion 700 and then it makes a lot of money. Yeah, no one can say that, but we end up feeling it in the budget last year and this year. However, when these 2 billion 600 are distributed to more than 200 thousand taxpayers, the funds are unfortunately insignificant, even for 15 companies, 20 thousand employees, and certain tax effects were far more negative at the end of the day that we are not shooting up there is not a lack of investment because for a company of 50 employees the effect of 60, 70, or 100 thousand kuna is not any money that would encourage them to invest. So that was the assessment. The second thing, we gave up those SMSs of special tax on SMS fees, that's 350, 400 million. Those who gave up that tax have a profit of 3.5 4 billion kunas when all of them are summed up together and would generally not do much harm, but you see what changes to the law the minister proposes to make up for 400,500 million in the budget. So much for the revenue side. However, on the spending side, we tend to accuse each other, but colleagues and colleagues look at only 6 types of expenditure. Now we're talking about the rebalanced part of 24 billion, health-free wages 22 billion, health payments with these 24 billion, interest rates 10 billion, subsidies 11 billion and material costs about 9 billion. My colleagues and colleagues all together when you add it up to you by about 115 billion, and then when you add these obligations to the EU and something similar to you, it's basically 5.6 billion kuna. And we can now talk about the expenditure side of one or another and it is his fault and we can remember running for a referendum of the Labour Act and today we can see realistically how much it costs the Croatian economy and the Croatian budget. It cost us several billion kunas, so look eventually, and today's government can't reach agreements to change this labour law, and many material costs remain as they are. This is our truth and the fact that we cannot escape because if we could escape then perhaps the Minister would propose something else in the 2014 draft budget. This, however, is unfortunately the starting point for the 2014 budget. The income side, unfortunately, cannot be bigger because there is no more to be taken from. In fact, consumption will probably still fall because citizens don't have the money. And now I'm going back to the beginning, so the budget is an instrument for economic policymaking. The result of such a fiscal economic policy is a deficit of 16 billion kuna. And let's not say that this happened or that because when we adopted the budget, we warned that unfortunately the deficit would be around 15 billion kuna. Why? Well, because nothing else could have happened than what was happening. Health care, to be resolved in the budget is an increase in health not 3.5 but 2.8 billion kuna, good health is being rehabilitated, but health care has generated the loss of one billion kunas this year. And you've all forgotten it's not in this part of income and expenditure because it's being run in that funding item, it's supposed to be funded from the loan that your funds for the recovery of county hospitals are reduced by a billion kuna. You remember that when the budget was adopted it was primarily a speech about how the county health homes would be rehabilitated from the loan, but this figure was now eliminated, perhaps 50 million kunas were spent, but a new item in health came. And now look for next year's colleagues and colleagues are again planning the budget of the health ministry 21 billion. This year we said it's 24 and it's already made a billion and some more losses. Why am I saying that? Well, because this budget is conducting some things next year, and you can't skip them. They are who they are. Now, this morning I said that the rebalancing was the result of action and inaction. What I was just talking about on the expenditure side is the result of government inaction, not the Minister of Finance. Why? Because I want to be collegiate and I don't want to put myself in a position to say anything different from what I said five years ago. So the expense side is the problem of government indemnification and that's true. And we can fight here as much as we want, but that spending party is what it is next year. So if the Ministry of Health doesn't change some things, then next year it'll cost us 24 or 25 billion kuna. And we can throw ourselves at each other one way or the other. So colleagues and colleagues are facts in exactly the same way we can discuss the 2014 budget tomorrow. Why? Because we have the same problem, the same problem that's been bothering us for the last two years and I'm going to end it. When I first said that 80% of the budget was a general laugh. A colleague Linic today has 95%, and 95% is a consequence because even these two years some things couldn't be done, they couldn't have been done before, and that's co-workers and colleagues of Croatian truth without political options and without left and right sides... /Intruder: Thank you very much. And the sooner we figure it out, the easier it'll be for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59419	Thank you very much. The first replica of the respected representative of Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59420	A fellow Shuker some of these things you've been talking about about the condition, etc., we can agree, it's not disputed. One of the things that you said that was wrong for you was the decision and the law was passed and the wrong policy that went towards reducing the contribution, the rate of health contributions from 15% to 13%, that's what you think. We think differently. We think it should, even if it's small funds for the economy, it needs to be stimulated. You say that's a lot of money for the state, big money for the state and small money for the entrepreneurs. But we're here to remind you, and while we were in opposition, we said we'd do it, we'd do it. And not only are we going to pass a series of laws of others and, in fact, propose here in the Parliament that these laws could not pass because we were not in power. When we came to power, we showed our politics, we enforce those laws. You're... If there's anything you don't agree with, make a suggestion right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Give a counter-proposal, maybe we can reach a consensus about something. But it can't, but I don't understand that kind of behavior where you don't agree with what it is, this isn't good, but we have a solution but we won't tell. Or we have an economic program we won't be presenting it yet. Or we know how it would be, but here we are not taking it out to the Parliament. And where? I think I understand if your policy that you want power without a solution, without law, without... without economic policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably, I can understand it you want me to just don't know if it can pass. And if it goes away, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59421	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59422	If you had listened more carefully to my discussion, then some things would have been more clear to you. And if you had read the budget better then you'd see that what's gone out of this, and then you'd see that what's gone and what's particularly sad about me from this budget is capital investment. One school in the new Chico in Velika Gorica has been standing for three years. And how many schools like that are there? Why capital investments? Because it was supposed to be the basis for tomorrow's part of Croatia to withdraw EU funds. I'm still saying, why am I saying the package all the time? The minister knows why I'm saying it. The two of us talked about it once when we were in the opposite situation. So, the thing is that it should not have been brought into a situation to contribute to the transition, to reduce the contribution to Croatian citizens. The moment we have 350 thousand unemployed and in moments when we have 70% of pensioners receiving a pension under 3,000 kuna. And these are Croatian facts, and some tax decisions sometimes have a more indirect negative effect than we think. And when you add that to the increase in energy prices, and when you add it all together, then you will see that it takes 700, 800 kuna extra from the pocket to the average Croatian family per month. And therefore, that's the real problem. And now we can why like this, why like that. After all, my colleague Jelusic, I would love all those laws that you pushed while you were in opposition when you came to power that you put them on the table on the first day of the day as the 35 laws we pushed while we were in opposition you didn't want to adopt them, we are proposing them now so that I can see how we would adopt you. So, among other things, a zero rate that was said to have to be abolished so that it couldn't stay in the European Union, but you kept pushing as you pushed. But I'm saying, I've tried to argue in a real and fair way for a simple reason. What in the way you're discussing we'll never... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59423	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Dragica Zgrebec, and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59424	Thank you very much. I'm a little surprised by this replica of yours one little Chakovec could finance two elementary schools and one great Great Gorica can't do one, so I'm a little surprised, without a contribution from the state budget. But there's something else I wanted to replicate to you. I wouldn't underestimate what's left of the economy in these two years, so when we say that the effect of increasing VAT actually reduces consumption, that's right, you have less purchasing power. But if Croatia had such industrial production and such production to buy domestic goods then it would be an effect to reduce VAT, an effect on production because it would be more domestic production. But when you have the kind of imports you have in Croatia, it doesn't stimulate domestic production. The effect of reducing the health contribution, so for a long time in this House, we say that it is not fair or just that only employees pay a health contribution and benefit from basic health care for the entire population. So we need to look for new sources, reduce the health contribution paid from gross wages so that we can finance basic health care for everyone at the same level. As regards the possibility of investing in the economy and the one that releases the reinvested profit of paying the profit tax. So we know what our capitalization is like, we know what our competitiveness is. Well, we have a situation that precisely because the low capitalisation of business banks doesn't want to monitor investment programmes at all. You and I are sitting on the HBOR Supervisory Board, seeing exactly what the requirements are compared to earlier in the year, entrepreneurs to lend their projects precisely from HBOR because business banks do not follow them for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59425	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59426	My colleague Zgrebec, so I tried to elaborate what happened to those 2 billion 602 billion and 700. One company with 100 employees with 100,000 kunas won't help God know what. It won't help God knows what. But I'm saying, it's like, however, increasing the VAT rate by 8.8% definitely raised prices but literally everything. And what's most important is that the VAT rate increase is most affected by the poorest. Because they're rich and they don't care if they pay anything for 15 or 17 kuna. However, the poorest must buy bread, they must buy milk, it has been increased by 0.5%, they have to pay for the electricity, they have to pay for the heating and they have to pay for the gas. They just have to pay for it, and that's where the prices went and that's where the VAT went by 8.8%. So that's what we're talking about. Now let's let go of a wide story of consumption, production, etc. So I'm talking about a social aspect that we simply can't run from in these crisis moments. The second thing, everyone who deals with taxes and tax policy is not prone to radical changes in times of crisis unless it goes in the package, and if it is not confused at least for two years to see the ultimate effect of that, and look at how many times we've changed tax laws over the last two years and what kind of message we've been sending. Well, I don't think people in the IRS know how the law applies anymore. So it's just that, if we hadn't done anything, if taxes were left the way they are today, we'd have 4 billion more in the budget. Four billion would have more in the budget, at least. And I didn't say, I said fair is intent, someone suggested, the effect of it is such and so, but the key problem is that next year we have the revenue side that we have and unfortunately we have the expenditure side that's been going on for years and it's pulling us into a deficit of nearly 18 billion kuna and God forbid we end up with that deficit next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59427	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposing minister, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59428	... The economy needs to be more competitive. [[Specially enabled.]] Our main problem is the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Yes, 4.5 billion are invested, and this government thinks a health contribution should be reduced, although we do not think that this should be the end, yet more should be reduced. They're too big to pay, and we need to cut them down if we want to have a competitive one. We've transferred the first 2% to VAT, the rest of us think we should do real estate. The rich have to pay for health care, the richer. Local self-government must finance health care needs both in primary health care and in county hospitals. Yeah, that's what we think in the government, and that's why we're changing that part, and we want to continue and parafiscalally reduce and reinvested profits. The question remains whether the economy needs it. Well, we can see that it wasn't enough, we can see that it wasn't enough. Why, we're still not competitive. The story of us increasing VAT is our fault because consumption has dropped. So listen, look at this year and you'll be shocked how much food imports into the Republic of Croatia are. Unfortunately, imports are growing, and why our import growth is not competitive, because the economy is neither food nor production in the field is not competitive. We're not competitive. Therefore, do we still have to fight to strengthen this competitiveness, because it is not only a problem for us to sell Croatian product at home and produce it. We must produce it cheaper because today we are part of the European market and here we have competition. And imagine the goal we set ourselves, exports, we have to do, we have to be competitive not at home, we need to be on the whole European market competitive. We have to get a new consumer there, we have to produce and export there, then we'll have more employees. It is a battle for the workplace, a battle for competitive production to be in Croatia and we should invest and we stick to that policy. Part of you considered low VAT and consumption, just remember low VAT means low import price because outside they are more competitive and with low VAT we will only raise imports. It's so clearly unequivocal. And then when we say what happened to us, we have bigger expenditures with the entry into the European Union, unprepared economy, no exports, and we do not now have revenues based on economic growth that would cover these expenditures. You know, we see some misunderstandings here. We are paying a billion and 800 in this year for membership in the European Union, we will withdraw 2 billion and we say it is neutral. No, gentlemen, the 2 billion we withdraw are 2 billion new projects for which we have to give another 30% of our resources, our own, in the budget, and that's the cost, 3 billion we take, and another 30%, 3.5-4 billion we have to, another 600 to 900 million we have to do alone, and that billions and 800 is new expenditures. In the next year, an additional billion and 800, these are new expenditures. It wasn't withdrawn from Europe, so we covered it up. No, because what we pull out of Europe goes into projects. So how can we cover it? Only by export, only by economic growth and therefore there is a very clear programme of the coalition government. We are struggling to train this economy because only if it finally becomes competitive can increase economic growth and can additional expenditures that we have covered. And very clearly in health care, we just financed old debts. Health reform did not begin in 2013 and without reform there is no reduction in expenditure. And I agree with Mr. Shucker, it's a job next year. Whether we will succeed in quality reform, reduce costs and raise health awareness on planned revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59429	Thank you very much, Minister. We've got some replicas, and now we're going in order. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59430	Thank you very much. Mr. Linic, you spoke in this last sentence of health reform. We brought a health development strategy a year ago for 6-7 years in advance. There's nothing from that strategy in its application, there's no "s" in the strategy. When it came to health reform during the former government, it was really only about health funding reform, not about any other structural reform in health, but only about health funding. And now your government has made a decision to keep supplemental health insurance equal to everything, and you said that the richer they have to bear the greater burden of this crisis. And you see, 70 kuna is for both the pensioner and us the parliamentarians and for you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, so it's exactly the same. If you may think that this decision is for doctors, therefore on a working obligation, then the reduction of wages in such a cowardly manner as was carried out by the ministry and its servants in the form of recovery directors in all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. So, if that's what you're going to do with health reform, then it's really sad. But soon you will have a big problem not as Minister of Finance, but as a whole of the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia because there are already 300 requests from the doctor of Croatia to go outside. And we're going to experience it very quickly, we already have a medical deficit, and as it will be after that, it will feel very soon. I don't know how you plan on reforming health care with such salaries to doctors, with 70 kunas, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59431	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replica response, Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59432	I said that at 3.3 billion, we paid old debts in the Ministry of Health, and health reform is a process that will be implemented in 2014. All this year we've been working on a health supervision system and we're preparing measures, and these measures mean a reduction in the number of hospitals depending on the distance, a reduction in individual departments in hospitals because they're irrationally organized. These measures also provide for a reduction in the number of employees in administrative and service services or non-medical staff because it is absurd that we have three kitchens that prepare each for themselves, consume energy and not list everything else. Therefore, these are all measures prepared by the Minister of Health for 2014. All of these are measures that will be very clearly defined and when they will be applicable and all of these are measures that will be very clear and what savings they will be. And when we talk about paying the richer, when we talk about health care, then that means who's paying him. Whether it's paid by a worker with an average salary of 5500 kuna so the contribution to it was 15 or paid by someone who has 10 apartments, 50 squares, 100 squares, 300 squares of closed business space, so we think he's rich and should be given more. Yeah, that's the difference. And when we talk about action. Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59433	Thank you very much. The new replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59434	Thank you very much. So, you finally said, what you want to do with a property tax or a real estate tax. Simply reroute revenues, however, the key question in Croatia is whether the house that has been built under different conditions is a measure of wealth or poverty. And there's a basic problem. And as much as you claim tax on real estate will be the biggest social coup in the history of the Republic of Croatia. It's no problem to pay Mr. Minister to the one who has incomes of 15, 20 or more thousand kunas, he doesn't want to pay for the current 500, 1000 kunas a month. He doesn't mind. But you have a lot of pensioners, and even people who made a pension outside, and you know how houses used to work, work Saturdays, Sundays, concretes, this, that, it was important to buy material. And today that house is worth far more than what's really invested in it. And today's income income, so the income capacity to say so is far below the value of that property. And it is not disputed that those who have more pay. No one fights against it. But with this proposal, you want to take about 6 to 8 billion kunas that are simply not Croatian citizens at the moment. And what happens if we lower health funding to local self-government units. Well, look, at least you have at the Ministry of Finance what fiscal capacity or income potential is. We will come to the conclusion that citizens of Croatia will unfortunately not have equal health services. And as for the 2 billion EU funds. In these two billion, exclude money that will come from projects financed from pre-accession funds because we finance a billion and 800 EU funds, and then you will see that there is nothing out of those 2 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59435	Replica response, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59436	The law that is otherwise prepared, which speaks of a property tax very clearly respects citizens who have their own apartment or their own house in which they live and will not pay more than a utility fee, or even one who has another apartment or house, so it will not be used for him to pay taxes per holiday. So if he has five apartments, every child is in that apartment, or he's renting that apartment, there's no greater compensation than a communal one. But if it's an empty apartment, then it's a sign of a fortune that someone doesn't know how to manage. And if you want to know, you have a bunch of them who invested in apartments, so I don't talk about lawyers both this and that. Therefore, we differ as a party. We believe that richer people need to be more participated. Interestingly, all countries in Europe also relieve the economy and move tax burdens at least for the health system on property and try to say that the assets show who is richer. What is the advantage of the proposal that we have made, if the property is in function, is not to pay an additional tax. But if the property isn't operational then it's also the responsibility of the owner who has it. And if it's somewhere in someone's holed up, then the value of that property is very low because it's not going to be paid by the square, it's going to be paid at the value of that property. So it's all set up. However, decisions on all this are left to local self-government units because it is their original income. Therefore, neither will this be the revenue of the state budget nor will we define that they are the basic elements of an early system for this kind of system. It's all in the law prepared, but we don't want reform. Yes, gentlemen, local self-government units as founders of health institutions will stop funding football clubs, stop funding sports parties, stop funding
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59437	Thank you very much. Finish your sentence. Thank you very much. The third replica of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59438	Mr. Minister, time is too short, so on this health reform better not even start, mostly to say my opinion, my opinion is that the reform will not be, and here they were alive and they saw before us for the next two years. But I will refer to something else when it comes to competitiveness and promoting competitiveness, we also see from the rebalance of the budget implementation of the state budget that exactly in the budget of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Trade that large amounts of funds intended to encourage the economy and promote competitiveness through different programmes have not been achieved. So, in fact, that these two state ministries through the agencies and through the programmes failed to achieve a whole series of programmes and that there was actually a mass of neutral assets left, which shows that the state itself through these two ministries and through the programmes did not actually succeed through the promotion of competitiveness. When you say about low VAT and low VAT is a lower price for citizens regardless of whether it comes from imports or domestic production. The higher VAT is a higher price for citizens of the final product or service. Well, of course, citizens would prefer that VAT is 15% or 20% rather than 25% or 30% because their product or service is cheaper however you turn. And when it comes to food, I'm going to repeat what I said once before, we have one, two, three large companies that are today both the biggest producers and the biggest importers of food. Therefore, there are certain measures to prevent them from being both producers and importers and to actually dictate prices on the food market in relation to their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59439	Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59440	However, I have let you down for a while and left the session precisely to define the deadlines, measures and values of all reforms and between them and health care. And I have to tell you, a health reform has been prepared and will be applied in 2014 and you will testify to that because I am convinced there will be enormous resistance. Because you know it's not easy to shut down the hospital, it's not easy to shut down some departments because that's all we're against reform. I've heard about health reforms, but we'll see how much they support us in all this. Therefore, the documents are ready and in 2014 will be prepared and will not be easy for the government or those who have to change their behaviour. You're talking about food, VAT smaller, but ban cheap food outside, and we're part of the European market. Wait a minute, what are you up to? For citizens who need to get cheap food and then let it come from export for reasons we don't know how to produce cheap food? Or vice versa, if we're in favour of domestic production, then we have to encourage domestic production to be competitive, to buy its citizen product because it's cheaper than outside. This government thinks we have to fight for the competitiveness of domestic production that a citizen can choose but choose domestics because it will be cheaper. That's why we invest in that part. And VAT, that's bigger, but then what I have to tell you is really 17% just going to contribute to the pension system is 40%. Just to see how many jobs we're going to have because we're so short of money in the pension system because we've created a million and 250 thousand young pensioners and in order to finance the contribution must be 40 if not 45%. Well, you see, that's why we have high VAT. Because we're simply financing a pension from VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59441	Thank you very much, Minister. The fourth replica, the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59442	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you spoke in these five minutes and about the bad economic environment, and I would agree with that, but as an alibi. I would agree, the truth is that it's a bad economic environment and you were talking about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or the incompetence of the Croatian economy. I still think this government should fight for the better competitiveness of Croatian companies. And in the end you said about withdrawing funds from European funds. However, in a country that prepares for the use of European funds, just for example in the area of the railway area, expenditure is reduced to implement and prepare EU rail projects by 95 million kuna or around 29%. And expenditure on building shares financed from EU funds is reduced by 61 million. And the expenses for preparing the project documentation for 34 million kuna. Why? What does that really mean about project preparation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59443	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59444	Yes, I would agree with you, Mr. Representative, when we look at which side we reduce we see a good part of the sides that were facing the projects. On the one hand, what's happening to us is that at this point projects that have been funded from development banks for European investment banks are all running away from local self-government and our ministries, why? Because these are loans to be paid back, and then unfortunately at this point, we have at the Ministry of Finance a mass of where we're preparing contract cancellations because they're all being transferred to structural and cohesion funds because they want free funds. This is why a good part of the unfulfilled projects that you now see we are reducing are also because they do not want to use credit funds, so everything is being transferred and prepared for development. And when we talk about projects, that in HEP, the railway is unfortunately late in many ways, which is why we don't have enough investment in state investments. I hope that all these shortcomings that have been in poor projects, inadequate projects, late projects will finally start and realize in 2014. So projects both on energy and in the construction of railway infrastructure. So, unfortunately, we're showing here that we've been running from the projects, and they're important primarily for raising standards, and above all, would that mean for the private sector and some investment?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59445	Thank you very much, Minister. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the honorary representative Ivanka Roksandić, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59446	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am, as always, going to speak in that segment of this budget relating to education and science, and if we look at only this rebalancing then we'd say that we don't know why he's like that, 580 million kuna more for education. That sounds very nice, but our colleagues and colleagues didn't give anything to education, but we just came to the final point, the maximum point we have to secure for teachers, teachers and all those who work in education. And why is that? I must remind you that in the adoption of this budget for 2013 and the first rebalancing, Deputy, I see that there is no minister warned precisely on this side, myself and my colleagues that we will miss them for education salaries. I believe it's not your fault. You're people who handle numbers, but plans for and financial plans are done in another ministry that has ignored it. I want to warn you why, in 2012, we ended up in education and science with 12 billion and 64 million kuna. That's not what we started in 2013. We're not even gonna end it with that much. We're going to end up with less, but we're not going to get that for the next 2014. So, from the beginning we have a certain minus and in education we start with that minus, we have reduced the budget of 2012 colleagues and colleagues of those who raised your hand for that budget by 2.7% and we will always miss it and just for wages. My colleague Jelusic is in his debate today, he's gone, but I have to say again, we still have to give it to teachers, teachers, and so on. We don't give them anything anymore so they don't stay in the air. We only give what they've earned, because there are no 580 million kunas, right, Deputy Minister? We couldn't afford to pay for elementary schools, because we're 304 million and mid-259, which I won't even mention. But when we look at the budget, that program part of the budget, we all see that we haven't bought a single book for the school library this year, and we've planned a million and 600 thousand kuna. In this rebalancing zero. That we reduced the items for the prevention of violence in schools, for the program of working with gifted students, for encouraging extracurricular activities in preschool education, in primary school, in secondary schools. It's all about millions. For the entire preschool education, we reduced by 3 million 634 and in the end what fellow Shuker mentioned, we also reduced capital investments, but not because they ended but because we wanted to, we did not want, slowed down those investments in school. I'm going to give you an example, the beginning of the work for Sisak craft school, began before the elections. We planned 5 million and 700 thousand kuna. Now we're reducing by 3 million kunas, or 2 and 200, it seems to me that we haven't been able to spend, so it was known that we're not going to spend. The government has even made a decision on what the ministry must ensure next year in the budget and more 2015. However, the ministry did not provide for it either. But we have secured the rebalancing I would like to remind you colleagues and colleagues that we have increased the funds to repay the debt as part of a public private partnership for only two counties, Varazdinska and Koprivnica-križevnica, i.e. The town of Koprivnica, which through the public private partnership, owed themselves and transferred that debt to the government of the Republic of Croatia. We'll make sure of that in 2014 as much as I think. I advise all of you who are involved in education, start your work and then fine-tuning it then believe over the 1st Vice-President of the Government so let this state budget return 20 million kuna each year for someone else's debts, but we return it to the expense of this education budget because it all comes from this education budget. Therefore, we will have neither for extracurricular activities nor for the school library nor for other school activities. I just want to say one more thing and warn you of something that really concerns me, and these are the material costs in schools. I agree that we really need to implement the overall reform maybe this strategy will bring something to the schools. But I'll tell you something else, the reality in schools is different. Schools are already, and I keep saying it really on the verge of endurance. We could have introduced and I really welcome both the e-mail and the e-mail log, and I don't know what we've introduced and some new items and we need to introduce them but we haven't provided the basics. We talk to kids in the first grade about health care about hygiene, and we don't have any liquid soap and paper for hands. My colleagues and colleagues, it's a reality in schools. The minister left, and said some would now have to submit those local communities to the health care of some of their costs and that the local community must be involved in solving its problems, the sea. Some counties now here we brought the budget for 2014 to Sisak-Moslavina County and I welcomed it, they added a million kunas, you know why, for energy costs is what they get from the ministry, what they get so-called. Decentralised functions don't have much. They don't have enough for basic settlement of electricity costs, heating, not enough school to transport students. It's a reality and a situation. The easiest way is to transfer many obligations to local communities, and we saw now and on Friday we discussed and you were all in particular to those areas that we call areas of special state concern. We're reducing some of these people's rights there, and you've got the same people finding schools of colleagues and colleagues who can barely live. That's the kind of school that small schools are. And in this reform, such a school will be the first to be hit, but when you calculate it, and that's well calculated by my colleague Box, it seems to me, and I've done my best, and I've seen what will bring the closure of an average relatively small school of 150 to 200 students. It will bring that you will carry students up to 40 and 50km and increase transport costs, and you will abolish the only institution let's say the institution around which everything revolves in one environment of 14, 15 settlements. It's a problem and it's not easy to implement. I think people living on islands are also aware of that, people living in hill-mounted areas and people who generally live in this area called special state care where people in '95 and '96 brought back people and residents just opening school buildings and opening schools. I don't think it's a good thing we're ending this rebalance, is this not an increase? And let me mention something else, I may have forgotten, I remember when we decided in the first rebalancing that we would all increase by 40 million kuna and increase the field of scientific research. Is what's left now 40 million kunas but through all the items in science we started to download some items so for 9 million we downloaded the program of perfecting scientific recruits, so we centered excellence for 2.5 million kuna and we came such a download of colleagues and colleagues up to 34 million kuna. So we lost in the end through various items in science 34 million kuna. It is a reality in education and science in this rebalancing, and with this we start tomorrow for a new budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59447	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59448	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Roksandic, you rightly wondered why 500 million kunas in the Ministry of Education could have happened. It could have happened that Minister Jovanovic would be missing only Facebook and pounding his status all day, and he forgot, and we warned him at the beginning of the year that at the end of the year he would miss 500 million kuna and that he would not be able to pay his salaries, but he kept pounding those statuses and asking journalists to publish them because these are the big thoughts with which he modernises some area and education but also the overall education in the Republic of Croatia, which is why 500 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59449	Your status is off to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59450	Thank you very much. Minister Maras too, Facebook, and he lost 150 million kuna in that phase from the funds of economic co-operation, i.e. our entrepreneurs because of these statuses they publish daily will not get so much help. These are the reasons why then Minister Linic eventually has to fix everything as small children, everything has to be fixed in order for them to succeed in their ministerial mandate at least by the end of the year. Those are the basic reasons. They don't care what's in school, what's going on there. And the one who remembered that school has to be abolished because they're invaluable, so it's for reward. Imagine schools that are invaluable, that's a really top-notch claim. Our infrastructure is invaluable, and now we've concluded that our schools are invaluable, and now our hospitals are invaluable. Well, in the end, we'll end up ending up as a state and we'll be invaluable as a state, so that's terrible. In one small middle, to terminate a school that has 30, 40 students. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59451	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59452	Thank you. I'm not exactly a Facebook man, and I don't spend that time on Facebook. And I agree you shouldn't waste your time on that. I also said that I couldn't look back on Minister Linic and his deputy because they were getting the numbers that were being projected elsewhere as far as the Ministry of Science, but the fact that I spoke and you were saying, we all warned that they would be missing for wages. I also said where it came from and when it came about. Since 2012, the first budget of this government has been reduced by 2.7% for education at all. And we miss that all the time. We're gonna miss him next year. And the reform I think we're going to discuss more, so you're going to see how much that saves on such possibly small schools that really mean the center of life in those small environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59453	Dear representative Marija Lugaric and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59454	Dear colleagues of Roksandić, you incorrectly claim that there is a reduction over the years of funds for division 80, so the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. You're being denied the numbers. The implementation of the 2011 budget in this section for which you raised your hand for this division amounted to 11 billion 902 million 635 and 289 kuna. So 11 billion 902 million kuna. It is now proposed in this rebalancing of the 11 billion 942 million kuna, which is 40 million kuna more than it was in 2011 so the last budget for which you raised your hand. At the same time, expenditure on employees, therefore, group expenditure 31, in the execution of 2011, that was the last budget for which you raised your hand was 9 billion 813 million 46 000 and 762 kuna and now planned 9 billion 546 million and 451 kuna, which is 250 million less than in 2011. This all sums up to 40 and these 250 means the real part that is not wages in the activity itself 300 million kuna more. And there should be no big genius data on the implementation of the 2011 budget, data from this figure, end and beginning. Therefore, expenditure on employees is reduced, the total amount is increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59455	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59456	Well, colleagues, Lugaric, you and I read different numbers. You read the planning numbers and I read the ones that were executed. And by that I'll tell you that you reduced 2.7% in 2012 when you were doing the first budget. I'll also tell you that you're already starting wrong now because you ended up in 2012 with 12 billion 64 million. That's how much you're done. And then you cut back in 2013 and you won't reach this again in 2014. And how much more and less we could talk about it, too. I could also ask you, you've been Deputy Minister here for almost a year and a half, right, and we've known each other for a long time, I don't know how many months, nine months, here, I could ask you the same thing about how many new jobs were in the process and in education. In the primary and secondary education that you've been leading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59457	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marijan Skuric, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59458	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, above all, we agree only that education and education must play a prominent role in supporting the budget because this is our basis, a foundation which this Croatia can really have a bright future. But I absolutely disagree then in that part of how that part, the goal, achieves. We disagree because when I hear unfortunately what reality it is in schools you're talking about, then I wonder if we live in the same country. Come a little north of Croatia and... County, come to Međimurje County, Koprivnica-Biogorje County, above all to Varazdin County where we first introduced free transport of all high school students, really free transport and we put the whole burden of costs on the back of the county and local administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, we launched a public private partnership where over 30 schools and halls were built in 2 years and we had everything in one shift. And what have we done with that? And we also funded it by the county and local self-government. The government wouldn't help us. I thank this government who has nevertheless introduced that this should help us at least with... after co-financed both the public private partnership and so on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] continue to finance transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do we have in schools? So I'm even surprised who's to blame, we're talking about efficiency and functionality. We don't complain about it because we haven't been able to get anything for eight years, I can say it responsibly. And what is it, we've turned to projects. Our primary schools are doing projects, and I'm the only one who has three primary schools in the city of Lepoglava. One received over tens of thousands of kuna for her school cooperatives. Our primary school central in Lepoglav has a new facade, a new carpentry, light solar panels, now will operate heat pumps, a decorated environment and 43 years old. Every student, pardon professor has a laptop at school, every classroom has a computer reroute wireless is free in the entire area of the town of Lepoglava, we did all this with the European Union fund, we did not complain. I thank the government finally for recognising the ingenuity, the intensity that education and education are crucial and that they are really helping us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59459	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59460	Well, my colleague Skvaric would be most pleased if I could say that about my county and 50% of Croatian territory that was devastated and destroyed in the war. 64 school facilities have been restored by Sisak-Moslavina County since war casualties. This is Osijek, Osijek-Baranja, that is Vukovar-Srijemska, those are Dalmatian counties of Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar, Split-Dalmatia. I'd be really overjoyed if we could. You warned us and Friday when we talked about this Law on Special State Care. Well, we don't all live the same in Croatia, but we're also fighting colleague Škvorić, and it's not funny to me, it's pathetic to me. That's pathetic to me. [[/Agreement: colleague Škvarić. Excuse me.]] And I still want to tell you something, it's true 23 million kunas we'll separate, or 21.2 million kunas you've saved somewhere this year for you that you say you've made out of your own resources. Well, you didn't, because you entered the state budget this year. And they took away those who have fewer, that's a fact. Now you've admitted it yourself. This government gave us back what we started. So now I wonder where we were, why we didn't spend all that money on governments and governments and tell you, we have to finish. Yes, but you had a colleague, Škvorić, Mr. Cacic's first vice president, when that decision was made and admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59461	Dear counterpart Roksandic, colleague Marijan is called Skvaric. ... It's all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Ante Sanader and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59462	Mr. President. Dear colleague Roksandić, you sent a recommendation here and invited us to compete in public-private partnership as some cities and counties. I can say that our county, or the town of Solin, already two years ago we made complete documentation, funded all of it, competed but unfortunately we could not enter a public-private partnership and be financed through a public-private partnership. It's easy for you, your county is rich, 2 billion you get the state budget, you belong yesterday says the mayor in the most successful county and the richest, but here we are the poorest county we are, for example. In the past two years, we have had to give 35% of our own funds because every year 17th year, 1st year 17th year, 18% of the state budget, or the ministry, has been abolished for capital investments, and projects are ongoing. So the facilities are working, they're under way, and 37% in two years the funds are off for those capital investments. And now look at how these poorer counties feel, not those rich like you, and then you think we all can live as well as you. So we separate from our own funds into our own capital investments for what we're cut off from the state and about a public-private partnership we can only dream of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59463	Comrade Sanader, what's our county? Thank you very much. [[Attack Sanader: I speak ours for me, Split-Dalmatia.]] Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59464	Thank you. Comrade Sanader, you just confirmed what I just said, we're not all the same. And our county of Sisak-Moslavina and my mayor, Mrs Lovric, often throws numbers. The 2 billion kuna she wanted to point out that she deserved it, but these 2 billion kuna projects are not from the state budget, the minister knows it well, but from the European funds. Projects made long ago before the elections now because the paperwork and everything was over and we're not such a rich county, I wouldn't tell you, but what we have is pretty good to share, as far as education is concerned. I have to be objective here. We've always stood up for education. But you said well, we are not all the same, some have received a refund of those funds for a public-private partnership, and some have not even been able to enter the Split-Dalmatia County either in the programme at all or in the city of Solin, I apologize, in the programme of this funding. So we're not all the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59465	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Roksandić, yes, I was on Facebook too, but I'm not on Facebook anymore, but it's interesting how many media, regime media, so to speak, carry certain messages from that network, especially some ministers. So we now expect that it will be announced soon and that Nikola Šubić Zrinski will also be sued because he called for a home fight in the opera and will be sued by the Croatian Olympic Committee or if Bauhaus is already on the wallpaper because he has "all for the Homeland War". So such messages sent by the Minister via Facebook would be much better to provide toilet paper in all schools in the Republic of Croatia, it would be good to make sure that all schools in the Republic of Croatia have broadband internet so that children can say or be on other networks via Facebook, or they can Facebook with it, it would be easier to face it, this way they can't have, and not that we have various modules, etc. And it would have been good if he had condemned through Facebook and the burning of the Croatian flag at the Croatian-Serbian football game, but then he didn't answer, he didn't face it then. But I have to say something else. I mean, you were talking about schooling, capital investment, a joke on the side, so capital investment, so here's an example in your county, in our area where projects are stopped, e.g. a school in Pokkavlje where even a certain kind of suspicion of crime is happening, but Mr. Jovanovic does not face it at all, even though I have written to him 10 times already about what is going on at a school in Pokkalj in Brod-Posavina, our county, so that Mr. President would know what county is. There you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59467	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59468	Just for a minute, thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, I told you that I am not a Face man, I have my own opinion on Face, especially all those statements on Face that are already driving people crazy, especially young people, and we should talk about it here. But the fact is, when you said that capital projects were stopped, you listed one of your schools. I said, at the moment you don't have enough funding, then you're trying to slow down that capital project, so instead of 5 and 700 you need 3 million kunas, instead of 13 and 400 next year you're going to need 9 million kunas, but we're going to talk about providing funds for capital projects. The fact is that not everyone is in the same position, the fact is that we expect this Regional Development Act to see if we will try to equalize at least all of the current and existing counties or all of the ends. No one will ever be fully satisfied, but I think we have been in favour of the even development of Croatia for years. I don't think that should be declarative and that at least the most should be expressed in the field of education because we care about our children here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59469	Honorable representative Ante Babic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59470	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Roxandić, I listened very carefully to what you said. You know the problem well. Speaking of budget rebalancing, you also mentioned the health care and inability to implement it because of the lack of funds, but also some mandatory items that were announced. The subject of information announced by Minister Jovanovic. As a result, I also referred a parliamentary question, and I received a reply today in which the minister says, "It is necessary to create the necessary preconditions, and this means first accessing the problem of the burden of students, staff and equipment." All in short supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59471	Nothing, thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative of Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59472	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with the deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, as we have already heard from earlier discussions, unfortunately, and what is a fact we have a decrease on the revenue side of the budget while at the same time we have an increase on the expenditure side of the budget. One of the main reasons for the increase on the expenditure side is the debt of health care that we inherited, which we had to pay for the reason we do not want to, because we want to abide by payment deadlines which, unfortunately, for the term of office of the last government was not the case. So part of that debt we set up to actually bring the whole system into order. It is also important to say that the 2011 deficit left by the last government amounted to 25 billion kuna, while in the economy there remained 45 billion kuna of unpaid bills, 200000 people who did not receive salaries, were not paid contributions, which certainly resulted in a deficit in the state budget. In the last three years, therefore, in 2009, the 10th and 11th former government has left behind 63 billion kuna deficits, and this government has not said so, but are concrete data clearly and unequivocally expressed by EUROSTAT, which, even now, colleagues who have left that debt are trying to deny. Thus, the deficit has accumulated, and reforms have been undertaken in a series of ways, have not been implemented, and precisely because reforms have not been carried out in the economy and economies are in grave difficulties. The significant costs that burden us, which we have paid out of the budget, is the debt of health care of 3.3 billion kuna. 1.6 billion kunas in the EU budget for six months 2013. So that's the payment and the amount that no government has had so far and that certainly affected the 0.5% deficit increase. What is also important to highlight is the fact that Croatia will each year pay about 3.8 billion kuna to the EU budget, which means about 1% of GDP. It is also important to say why the deficit in the budget of 16.2 billion kuna. Well, here, let me give you some examples. Smaller customs revenues, VAT effects. So we entered at 7 months when economic activity is usually the largest and the largest share of VAT inflows. Of course, that VAT effect is difficult to assess, but it is now moving at about 1.6 to 2 billion kuna. So, it's a hole where we miss it on the income side because of the loss of import VAT. We have further reinvested profits left in the economy. We have a VAT reduction effect from 25 to 10% for catering services. Also, one of the more important measures is to enable the exit from the VAT system, which is also considered to be a boost primarily for a small economy. How much of that incentive and what has been achieved with it, unfortunately we do not have measurable indicators yet, but they will certainly feel we are hoping for a year. It is important to say that the possibility has so far been used by about 26,000 companies, which is a clear sign that this measure is very interesting for small businesses. We planned Europe, yes and we had to know what was waiting for us and how much we had to isolate from the budget. But what we couldn't plan was that effect of the VAT that happened to us. Also, an important measure that is important is the indexation of pensions. Furthermore, it is important to say that we are introducing a COP pay system and that only this system will provide the right wage management management management tool that we consider important and that this government has finally made a register of employees unlike the last government. The big problem so far has been unequal calculations which will no longer be possible after the introduction of this system. So all civil servants are in the system, and now we are left with the introduction of order into the public sector. This government has introduced nearly 2,000 institutions into the system, and so far there has not been a list of people in the system at all. It's important to say that they were also saying that they leave us clean papers, that, for example, not all of them, individuals of health debt do not exist and what we found, in fact, is now more or less familiar with the entire public. Furthermore, we have reduced our contribution to health, resulting in about 2 billion kunas less in the budget. The reinvested profit I already mentioned, which remained an economy of 1 and a half billion kuna. Reduction of VAT to catering services from 25 to 10%. What does that tell us? So, if we hadn't done all this, if we hadn't left that money to the economy, if we hadn't recovered the health debt, would the VAT be at 3%. Well, he probably would. So we could give up the measures for the economy, we could close the revenue side of the budget, but what would achieve and what effects would have in the economy. This is how we left our economy, and we expect that the expected effects will prove to be already concrete by increasing economic activity and, of course, by reducing unemployment, i.e. by increasing employment. Furthermore, the money we left to the economy made it possible to pay the bill. Obligations were not paid as it seems now and which certainly makes business easier. The businessmen themselves said that part of the liquidity had begun to be resolved and the liquidity was reduced in a year from 45 billion kuna to below 34 billion kuna. It is also important to stress that all state-owned public companies are paying their obligations within 60 days. What about fiscalization? There were also those who made fun of it, and what did it finally prove? It turned out that some of the traffic had increased and increased by 1,000%. I think that information tells everything and that it's clear to everyone how and where the money went before the fiscalization was introduced. Here, for all the above and all the measures to be taken, I support this proposal to amend and supplement the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59473	Dear colleague, we have seven replicas on your exhibit. We'll start with the first. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic and the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59474	Oh, thank you. So here's a colleague of yours in your opening section on the reasons for actually this rebalance and the increase in expenditure listed expenditure as the reasons for the debt of health. I have one question for you, since we didn't get it probably you could answer that, and why is the MIP budget increased by 300 million kuna and that in the pay item? So 300 million kunas you have in the rebalancing of employees' salaries. That's 17%. It's a payday growth. Is that also an inherited expense and what it applies to? Do you have an answer? I don't know. And when it comes to the debt of health care, we need to look at the maturity of those obligations. So these are your obligations that are not over two years old. As a rule, your obligations were unfortunately made in the term of office of today's minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59475	You haven't answered. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59476	My colleague, some of you, and many of you here from your club today, are constantly rehabilitating the HDZ government, the former government. Obviously, you miss this government, but not only you, but also a larger number of Croatian citizens. And as for the deficit you were talking about, I'm going to tell you instead of the 10.2 billion kuna deficit today, we're talking about a 16.2 billion kuna deficit. The result of fiscal consolidation is gone, simply gone. After increasing VAT to 25%, VAT from 0 to 5% for food and medicinal products, following some big stories about the introduction of order and fiscalisation of public finances are faced with a record high deficit. And don't forget that your government had a clean start at first. I don't think you've forgotten that. Don't be at the end of that clean start of that dirty end. It's a clean old, dirty end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59477	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59478	Yes, here's an esteemed colleague of course we don't miss the former HDZ government and we especially don't miss the former prime minister with his vice presidents who were convicted. We have not forgotten it if you have forgotten it and have not forgotten all the "good" under quotes that it has done for Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59479	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59480	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Nekic, in 2011, your government took over when you speak to my government, yours, ours, and this is our government's new government took over so much power and took over the state of unemployment with 311 thousand. Today, 2013, there are 355,000 unemployed. Every day without a job, the new 1,000 workers remain, workers are humiliated, teachers are humiliated. Today, this government has been able to humiliate top doctors, surgeons, and other top medical experts. I don't know what kind of cheek it will be for one of this government to look at a doctor, a professor or a worker in the eye. Here, you humiliated everyone, and for 8 years, your colleagues, Kukuriku coalition, were preparing for this moment when you would take power. However, the government is not really as it was said before either twitter or facebook or correspondence to it, it is bloody and hard work. And for that, probably in the amount of strength that's in your government, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59481	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59482	Yes, I agree that this is a particular piece of information that you're talking about which number of unemployed are being taken over and the fact that today, the number of unemployed is what it is. Just like the fact that we are trying and hoping that the reforms we are conducting will result in an increase in the number of employees. And as for this part, that everyone is humiliated, so do you know when everyone has become humiliated in this society? They became humiliated the day the former government, not all, the prime minister, some ministers robbed this country, when citizens' money was put in their pockets. Well, now we see that some basements are reopening. I'm just afraid it's not the only basements that'll still be revealed in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59483	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59484	My colleague, you mentioned bringing the system into order. Well, it's very simple to put the system in order over the back of those who are the weakest in this society. So, starting with employment, and also from units of local and regional self-government, but not those who have a lot of money, but just those who have very little, barely survive. And the best evidence for that is last Friday if you were in the Parliament, and it seems to me that when we were listening to the PPDS debate, the mountain-mounted areas, the city of Vukovar when the debate was united, and you saw where it was going together. Then I will also remind you, the Preschool Law, which it has brought, what obligations it has made, and what units of local self-government must do in order for the system to function. We also heard tonight from Minister Linic about primary health care next year. So the simplest way is to get the system in order and say here as did Pontius Pilate, wash your hands, the system works and everything is fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59485	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59486	I'll do it again, if you haven't heard me amongst other things, where order is being introduced. The order is introduced into a system that has been problematic all this time for the central salary account and only this system will when the right pay management manager is provided. Of course, it's extremely important that you finally make a register of employees. The big problem so far has been unequal, which you know very well, the calculations and, of course, what has affected the state budget. So, all the officers in the system that we are introducing into this system, so far, about 2,000 institutions have been processed, and we are sure that this introduction of order will also give the desired effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59487	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59488	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You're an esteemed colleague from the fifth constituency, right? The fourth? I'm from the fifth, well, from Slavonia I was going to say. I can't believe in this short time as you're here, your announcement has always been, but just always, HDZ is guilty of this, HDZ is guilty of what, it's all HDZ's fault. The HDZ is also your fault for having Croatia, isn't it? And I'm not surprised, dear colleague, that's not surprising to me, because I'm going to answer, so I'm going to rephrase your questions. You know, he's been singing when he's a coward for why he closes his eyes, because he knows the story by heart, he knows the song by heart. One of the tasks is when you have no arguments to say [[Storage Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone.]] [[/Intruder:Just to tell you one thing, a man who has been a representative here for six years, you colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, is not correct, is not correct. You and your colleague, Domagoy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59489	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59490	Yeah, buddy, I agree with the truth hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59491	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59492	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Nekic, you mentioned some kind of former-term mess, an unpaid economic account, a huge deficit, a bunch of people who don't get paid, and now on the other hand the attempt to introduce order doesn't want HDZ, doesn't want HDZ to put order into this society, they don't want it well to this country. They've shown that multiple times. I'm not going to give examples of this column in Vukovar and a series of these examples, what are they afraid of? You know what they're afraid of? The one you mentioned earlier. Any order in this society will lead to new cellars and new bears, and you know what they want, that these bears sleep forever in winter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59493	And Ante Sanader replica. Hey, buddy, you haven't heard from me. Here you go, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59494	My colleague Neklic, I think, I must commend you. You spoke well, you spoke well, I say excellent for every praise you make optimally spoken and that's really nice and I really commend you. But you only reminded me of one situation before 2001 when Minister Crikvenica spoke then he said, so you people are fine only you don't see it yet. It could sum up your speech, you put it all down nicely, and we're doing great but we don't see it yet. I'm surprised you didn't notice, for example. One thing I saw here, that the Department of Protection and Rescue was stripped of 7 million kunas, that we could use those 7 million kunas in very necessary things on the ground when we talk about sewing and rescue, means about protection and rescue units where we need both equipment and personal equipment and vehicles and techniques and investment in fire storage, homes and all that makes that security higher-level. So you should have noticed such things, so please, when you perform and when you help and you are the ruling majority, you can help us in this way to notice such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59495	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59496	Dear colleagues, you are persistently saying that reforms are not being implemented, the reforms will certainly produce results. And it is precisely the implementation of reforms and what makes a big difference between this and your governments, and you yourself are very aware of the fact that reforms do not give results overnight but that it takes a certain time to reach results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59497	Comrade Boro Grubisic. Here's to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59498	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Deputy. Let me put it briefly, and the report on the state's spending and receipts this year in 2013, so I would repeat this if it were a imbalance, not a rebalance, actually a defeat of that policy that was led by it is a financial policy. She doesn't know ideologies, she doesn't know parties, money doesn't know whose money they are, but money is money. So also here today we have one shooting between the left and right side there's a shooting between these options who's more guilty, who's left some skeletons, who's had a member start as they say clean start to clean accounts, clean account long love etc. This government is two years old as it is in power in the Republic of Croatia and this year we have budget rebalances because on the spending side counts for 5.9 billion kuna breakthroughs. So out of the planned 10, it goes to nearly 16 billion kuna budget deficits this year. The explanations for this ugly or bad phenomenon are exactly what I said in one of my replicas, says EU participation of 240m euros or a billion kuna and 800m kuna, participation in EU projects of a state of 2.5 billion kuna and interest of a billion kuna. But as my colleague Bubalo spoke on behalf of the club and cited the ministries in which there was a breakthrough of what was planned to spend for this year, which is almost exclusively for the sake of salary increases. I wonder if the increase in wages in total is due to increased employment in the MUP? I guess now... that there was a need to hire more employees to store tables in Vukovar and verbal delicacies of the stadiums etc. Or is it something else? Are the actual salary increases really 17%? Secondly, the Ministry of Culture has slightly penetrated 7.5 million kunas, then this ministry of Mr. Jovanovic's science, education education education of 580 million kunas. Retirement system almost 600 million kuna, Ministry of Health 2 billion 800 million. And now I said that the sum of those three items is therefore participation in the EU, interest and projects of 5 billion 900. And if we were to sum up all of these surpluses in the ministries that I've listed, that's exactly how much it amounts. So if it hadn't been for these overruns, if what this majority of parliament adopted when voting on the budget had been zero, we'd be okay. But no. Now we're wondering why the items have been breached, and we know that despite these breakthroughs, the situation in those segments that cover these ministries in social life in the country is bad. We're talking about agriculture, we're talking about health care, we're talking about the state of the police, there's no funding for the State Department for protection and rescue, there's no means for fire departments, there's no funding for materials, there's no funds in schools, kids carry toilet paper with them to school, in hospitals they also carry a fork and a knife with them, as it's said in Slavonia to say in Slavonic. We'll do it in reform. For 2 years, there is no strategy in the reform authorities. Now, as my colleague has already said to the club, the HDSSB club as well as personally will not be for the adoption of this rebalancing. But interestingly, since I'm a doctor a little bit, a little bit, so we're going back to this Ministry of Health or Health Excuse me for always speaking wrong, and I've learned at the Ministry of Health, and now perhaps given the eastern neighbours they call it the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Justice, maybe that's how these names should have been to bring us closer together to being good neighbors. So the Ministry of Health or Health is actually a patient like that song "In Stambol on Bosporus a painful pasture", so the Ministry of Health or Health is a permanently ill ministry, the most sick in the state of Croatia, and we constantly patch it up and resuscitate it two and three months ago, according to Mr. Minister and his deputy, funds have been invested to settle debts towards large-scale drugs and others. And we'll be back in six months for health care. They say some of the national minorities, "how much money so much music" and health care, or you'll deny the rights, and you'll get a response from the people, or you'll invest more in health care. And the money says he's got nowhere to go. But the health minister has taken down his initiative and the government's acceptance is agreed to remove the health insurance contribution from 15% to 13%, to help and facilitate the economy. And what do we have by helping and facilitating this economy, what do we get? A large number of unemployed, I would also like to say directly to Mr. Minister with entrepreneurs with economics etc., where they do not actually respect the great and good part and its decisions and recommendations and the hand-help provided. About banks not to talk, now they have again denied what this Croatian Parliament has discussed here, which we have agreed, but there is still half a drink half a bar gives so half the banks half the association of Franak and his to tell those who actually went to court for the exchange rate difference between the francs of the loan and later the code, during the return of the loan. In order for this government to try to resuscitate it in many capital facilities, especially in education, slowed down investment in capital facilities. That's why some of them were saying, Mr. Schuker, Roksandić, in all areas, we have one or two school facilities in all our districts that have stopped a bit. We're waiting. We ask, there may also be an amendment tomorrow when there is a budget of the Republic of Croatia for these facilities as well as our school in our county of Brod-Posavina for Podkkrajlje where even certain criminal actions are suspected and the situation where the company failed was dumping prices and there is something about it but on one other occasion. Even companies that, according to the director's statements, stand well, state-owned companies such as Djura Djakovica, state-owned companies, state-owned wagons, national wagons, Patria agreed, I think wonderfully, to be the manager of Đura, fantasy, it is to go out to the market, to work on all sides, to pour money into Slavonski Brod, i.e. "Djuur Đakovića" is whether but even so one director opens a private company, simple d.o.o. 7 August 2013 called Kowlanatur at the Zagreb Commercial Court. I guess in Zagreb because a man lives in Zagreb so they drive him every day to Slavonski Brod-Zagreb, Slavonski Brod-Zagreb twice a day at least. These are the costs incurred by the workers, the workers of "Djura Djakovica" from their work is whether, they drive it, go to Zagreb in the morning, bring it to Slavonski Brod and when it is done, return it from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb. Such a fit is similar and good, I guess it's great and so here we have a director from Zagreb in Slavonski Brod. It's clear that this budget rebalance with, once I've said here when that day will come that we don't have a deficit in the budget at all, it doesn't seem like it's going to be long, long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59499	Thank you, dear colleague, you have more replicas and you will continue. Damir Tomic. [[I will, I will. Here, I'll stay here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59500	Thank you, Vice President, here's my colleague Grubisic mentioned toilet paper twice today and I can't help but answer that when it comes to schools. And I would remind my colleague that the toilet paper at school is not just the Ministry's fault or not at all. You know who the founder of the school is. But it seems to some parties that the story of founders answers only when it comes to the appointment of directors. When it comes to responsibility, when it comes to funding, then some parties here who are drilling celebrations are not funding Croatians, but are waiting for help from the state. Then why don't you give up that idea to the founder of the school, leave it to the state and the state will buy toilet paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59501	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59502	A colleague exists, there, you know well a colleague that there are funds that are transferred from the state through the state administration office from central state to county and that are assigned to schools. So I guess they buy the material they need from these funds, and I guess they buy toilet paper. If you're trying to get the kids to wear soap and toilet paper to school, then your government's gonna fall fast. Don't worry, you won't be in power for long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59503	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59504	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, you looked back on some broken points. And I'd like to express my great indignation tonight if we and November 26th had items that we could reduce by 90 or even 98%. Like that. for the preparation of maritime projects, we reduce that item by 90%. What to expect next year is that we will be able to run for grants when we can reduce that item by that amount in this time of year. To encourage shipowners in national navigation and we can reduce that item by 98%. The establishment and implementation of maritime goods borders by 73%, the development of maritime transport and port infrastructure 57 million and so on. What to say about the minister's ability and that resistor when we allow things like this to happen at the end of the year. We all love to take pictures, especially on the days of Croatian tourism. Minister Lorencin is very happy to note that in the first 8 months we have more income by 10.9% than in the previous year. And then this is how we think about the next tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59505	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59506	My colleagues just like my colleague in creative ministries said, those who should create and attract investments, encourage investments, so in those ministries, they've just failed to do what you say this minus. So, the Ministry of Economy minus 300 million kuna, the Ministry of Agriculture minus 235, regional development, watch out for regional development minus 138, maritime, transport and connections minus 225 million kuna, environmental protection minus 50 million kuna. So it's precisely in these creative ministries that, where investment is expected to be promoted, it would have failed. And as for the port, so the port of the ship has been built for 20 years, what you've been saying, and... it was made very quickly by you there in Dalmatia, right? ... Not yet, but it will be, as long as Calmete is also a port, but good for that I won't, some others will talk about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Next, where's your sucklers, Lloyd? What about him? So you're talking about sea routes and connections, where's our loyd mammals, where's the river ports and river traffic? Dead. Where's the Danube-Sava channel? There's nothing, there's nothing in the budget, something small for some purchase of land, and it's going to take another 100 years, it started from Austria, so I don't know how far it's going to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59507	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59508	Thank you. .../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59509	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59510	We see the terrible headlines in the paper, for example, hospital arrests 6500 accountants and cleaners in hospitals. Imagine what they're like out of the inability of a single structure to run a reasonable one system you're pulling out, sending messages about how you're in love with a cleaning lady in hospitals, so women and people who clean up these hospitals, and you're in hospitals. I mean, it's really almost over, so the low methods of promoting those ideas and the political goals you're planning to implement. When it comes to these reductions, we've touched a lot of reductions, here I would once again touch in this rebalancing that's not mentioned, and that's for UskoC. We see that our USKOK has a really, really modest budget, only 21 million kunas and it takes another 300,000 kunas in rebalancing. I think given the way things are going in this country that we should actually go after the fact that we're going to step up that jump. So let's give the ministers another 10 million kuna in rebalancing upstairs, increase it, hire more people. It's an institution, an institution that's been sub-capacitated and clearly how things in this country are going that this BOOK actually needs to be stepped up. 10 million isn't much, but it's 50% more budget, so let's give them more, let them employ more people, have something to do and let the state budget get as much of that stolen back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59511	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59512	Dear Vice President. That would be nice, colleague Djurovic. I think I would prefer to see our country pay OLAF, so to a European agency like DORH that investigates crime and corruption because the self-reporter I actually encouraged from the Czech Republic and Austria, rather than from Croatia. It would be so lying, all these cases many lie in DORH drawers if there hadn't been an outside warning and a signal that this was about crime, corruption, about suspicion of a pardon, I must say that you wouldn't be sad even though as a parliamentary representative.... And as for health care and ours, so basically, if we could increase GDP, it would be much easier at all. There's a GDP that has to grow like the window had to fall, but there's no way it can. ... The window fell, and the GDP didn't grow. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59513	And there's no order to fall. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59514	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, first of all, dear fellow when you say, whenever we're talking here, here's almost all day about rebalancing, I'm sure we'll agree that everywhere in every item, every... this rebalance is a lack of funds. It would take a lot, a lot more money for that part of the standard that we want in all those parts to be the way we want it to be, but we can't and will never be. But the question now is that what you said about how much steam-so-music, yes, but it turns out that no matter how much money we give more of that money, we split up over what we're all supposed to be, and we should be much more efficient about what resources we have, that we use them usefully. So what you'd like to compare again, you're talking about those toilet papers in schools, etc., which I'm particularly sensitive, as you're interpreting that really some school really, we've already talked about in education and education,... there's no toilet paper, there's no chalk, and some schools with the same decentralised means may have a toilet with those sensors and instead of chalk use smart records. What's the difference? You were also talking about health care, some successful systems. I might say that in health care we need much more quality managers, not good doctors who run hospitals and the system. And in the fire department, you also mentioned the difference that someone was getting state-level vehicles for what they didn't need at all, to get one fire company that has three activities a year, to get one big vehicle over 2.5 million kuna, and someone has to buy all those vehicles with a much smaller... of 9-10 million kunas has to buy 5-6 of those vehicles. And he can buy them out of his little budget... separate them... make them like that. That's why it's supposed to be effective and not how much steam-so-music we should all learn how to fish, not just wait for someone to give it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59515	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59516	Dear fellow, when it comes to investment, I remember my late mother who said a son's mind to the head, and so did your debate, or your replica. You said hospitals would be good if they had more good managers and less doctors. The hospital's a hospital, it's run by doctors, not by managers, but fine. The management structure clearly needs a man who has money, but he doesn't know, he'll never know how many ends, no end, no scissors, no plates, no prosthetics need a patient. So you're not obviously from that phase, you're not from that sector, I've been torturing the pain as a surgeon to get what I need and radio and improvised and certainly worked just to keep and to have patients come to that hospital. And what you were saying about vehicles in the Navy, I don't know either, I didn't hear you about firemen, but if instead of these Toyotas that were bought, 132 pieces of Toyota per half a million kuna, if we bought which front-end vehicle would be much better and smarter, and the minister and his assistants and the rest, the interior minister would have nothing to drive around in, no worries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59517	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59518	Thank you, Madam Vice President. An esteemed colleague, since you're coming from Slavonia, you've mentioned the problems of agriculture in part. I'll just remind you that during the first rebalancing in April or May when it was already from the Ministry of Agriculture half a billion kuna, it means more than 500 million kuna. And also now with the extra, or new rebalancing, 235 million kunas are removed. And also looking at next year's projections through the budget, so for 2014, the situation is no better, or the eye is better. The increase is 600, and I don't know 70 million kuna. But if you go a little bit into the core then you see that these are the funds that we need to get from the EU, not the funds that we give from our budget. So in the following year, we will have much smaller resources when agriculture is in relation to the current year 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59519	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59520	You told your colleague 500 million kuna. And with your government, there was a problem between agriculture. You know very well that the tractors were on the road. Here is Shima, in Kopanica, because we were together, as we say, in Slavonia, because the village of Kopanica is great. But this government has inherited the contract signed, an agreement with the peasant associations, and that debt is 700 million kuna, and it is not 500 million kuna. So, the debt signed and taken over by the government, the new government after the HDZ rally with the HSS, the government of the Republic of Croatia was 700 million kuna. We are the amendment, not you asked for an amendment to the 2013 budget of that 700 million kuna. The government, or most of the constituencies in the budget, did not approve it. The minister gave an explanation and he got what he got, so the peasants' seats, later and the lawsuits for blocking the roads, so the angry ones paid the fines for, it's very nice and smart of our minister to pay the penalties for the roadblock. But the other day I wrote a letter to the gentleman, asking Mr. Minister, because it was offered to me by Mr. Ivan Ostojčić from Prnjavor where the milkman, a milkman, would not tell him that not to advertise constantly determine the increased amount of aflatoxin in the milk. And besides, the request to deliver the written report, and you know who determines the amount of aflatoxin? The milkman, not the country, not the veterinary inspection, the milkman. No, there's no written trace. So the situation in agriculture is catastrophic and many of the OPG will become social cases, and one part of the good that has large surfaces is quite and during your government quite obtained incentives and boarded up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59521	And Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59522	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As soon as you mentioned Đuro Đaković holding, I immediately raised the plate not only so that you could answer me and confirm the fact that you said in your discussion, but I raised that tablet to appeal to Mr. Minister here we have two ministers and I assure you, if you consider me a friend, that my colleagues from Đuro Đakovic, led by Mr. Kovacevic, stick the last nail in a coffin called Đuro Djakovic. There's no new contracts for cars, or for Patricia, or for Patrius armored vehicles to simplify. Coordinates believe me, colleges take place in Sheraton, people from the White Manastir, Sisak, Zagreb, etc. are employed. And the people who ran the businesses inside the holding company, engineers of engineering, the electricians went to the bureau. I also warned my colleague Dragovan and Mr. Jacobin to do something. I can only appeal in that way, and this is for every conviction you can check out, please, check in Đuro Đakovic's holding company. If there is no Đura Djakovica there is no economy in Brod-Posavina County, he is our brand of whatever condition he is, and we can save him if we try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59523	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59524	It's all true, fellow Djurdjevic, everything. I just don't understand the silence we keep quiet about Đura Djakovic, which will fall on the back of the state again because the state is the majority owner of Đura Djakovic. 27% have private shares and the rest is, most are state-owned, more than 40%, 49% are state-owned. There are other foreign partners, banks, etc. That is why it is not unclear to me at all, and it is not incomprehensible for me that this director, Đura Djakovica, is currently set up by the directive, the decree of the minister from the same party, so from the HNS. So he opens up his private company called simple d.o.o. On August 7th, check out Mr. Minister named KOLA, so last name, I won't speak now, you know who he is. Is it opening up trade, supply, import and export of medicinal plants, grass, wine, ask God. It has 50 items, I can't do it again, and I can get it for you. You can only enter the Commercial Court of Zagreb and you will see that man is secured in time. He's both director and owner of the company, responsible person, the OIB agrees, Chilean number 3 street I can tell you which one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59525	And my colleague, Jozo Radosh, for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59526	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. And therefore, this budget rebalance reduces revenue by 2 billion and 859 million kuna, and expenditure increases by 3 billion and 580 million kuna, which is somewhere around 2% of the difference, so the difference is about 2% of the gross social product, and certainly it's not something that's a desirable situation. But I'm not going to analyze these numbers, not increase or decrease because today it's many times done than I'm going to talk about in relation to 2012 that we know roughly where we are and I'm going to stress the circumstances in which this rebalancing is happening. So this year, 2013, the revenues of the budget, in addition to all the unfavourable circumstances that have been discussed here, have been increased by 682 million kuna, which is of course not big money, but taking into account everything that has been said about, which is that the profit tax has fallen by 880 million kuna because that money was reinvested when it was due to some shifts, improvements, growth in investment and thus GDP growth, because there has been a reduction in customs duties due to a new way of calculating customs duties and a new customs situation in which the Republic of Croatia has been reinvested and because of a one-time reduction in VAT revenues due to its delay, due to a new way of accounting for goods imported into the EU under such circumstances is not easy to achieve even such symbolic growth in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And of course it's something you should say hello anyway. In this respect, expenditure compared to 2012 is higher by 7 billion kuna, mainly for those costs which are either either self-evident or not needed to be delayed or inevitable. This is, of course, the rehabilitation of health institutions that each responsible government should do, and that debt of 3 or 4 billion has been dragging into the Republic of Croatia for more than 10 years. And of course the responsible government needs to try to do that and that's those 3 billion increases in expenditure. And of course there is an increase in debt financing, i.e. an increase in interest expenditure which is equally undeniable. You can't want them all, this is some kind of policy you can or can't do, it wasn't done, I'm talking about recovery. When it comes to repaying debts in that part of interest, there's really nothing to do about it. Therefore, all these expenditures that have been increased by 7 billion kuna are either inevitable or are actually welcome for the government's responsible behaviour. This is how a responsible government should behave. And of course there are expenditures for our EU membership costs that are also inevitable and there is no debate about it. So these are the circumstances in which this budget happens in 2012 and only this difference between 7 billion increased expenditures and a slight increase in revenue is actually equal to this budget rebalance. And we'll agree if we run responsible finances that actually these expenditures were inevitable, and the other ones are actually a good policy because the recovery of every debt that the state has and which then multiples the negative effects is certainly a useful thing. In these circumstances, it was certainly not easy to make a budget, and of course it was not easy to make its rebalancing and certainly not a good fact that with this debt, or the deficit of the general government budget, we go above 5% of GDP, but there is also another circumstance, and that is an increase in the extraordinary expenditure of 525 million kuna to pay off the savings of the failed Centre of the Bank, which is again, of course, some circumstance that cannot be avoided because that money of the 525 million kuna state guarantees bank deposits by the basis of the law it passed. Thus, the cost was inevitable. Therefore, in such circumstances, it was difficult to object to this budget rebalancing. The circumstances in which everything is happening together, so I will not now mention the general recession in which the Republic of Croatia and its environment are still in place but other purely practical circumstances, circumstances which are specific circumstances this year which will not then hopefully repeat at least one part of them next year, which is the loss of the CEFTA market which certainly the Republic of Croatia is trying to make up for. Which, of course, affected the reduction and exports, which also affected the decline in GDP. These are, of course, difficulties with exports to the EU which, under new circumstances, obviously could not be maintained at the existing level, and in particular do not take advantage of these opportunities and the EU's chances for them to expect that the environment will also be changed in the coming year. Of course, next year we won't have a health care recovery, at least not those 10-year debts if there are constant difficulties and the creation of new debts. That is, of course, in a small amount, and that is the thing that needs to be solved next year. And, of course, this effect of reducing VAT due to subsequent VAT collection and the fall of customs revenues next year will not be part of the Croatian budget. Which means that, for all of these reasons, this budget cannot but be supported, and of course I will personally be a member of the ruling group here in the Croatian Parliament, and this year, for all the reasons I have said for joining the EU, it has been a transitional year because of these recovery moves, it has been a rehabilitation year, and it is expected that in more favourable circumstances, hoping, of course and reducing recession, such forecasts are not, they are not talking about some big growth of GDP, but this will be a happy environment so that the next year will be more invested in Croatia's economy to be more competitive both in the EU market and outside of that market because, of course, the discussions on taxes are of course an important part of the financial and fiscal policy of the state but it is clear that the right of the government is not going to be able to adopt these measures in Croatia's budgets budgets and therefore not to be able to implement this year's budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59527	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59528	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. For the sake of truth, the resolution actually paid out the guaranteed savings to the Bank's savings did not go from the budget, but from the DAB, and these are not budget funds, but these are the funds that business banks are paying for precisely that purpose to the DAB. And as for VAT and withdrawals due to EU entry, it is a constant, and this VAT will be charged permanently later, therefore, it is simple and these are facts and it is not good to say the Center of the Bank and to put this into the budget when it has nothing to do with DAB and budget funds, DAB is the only consolidated state balance over some of the past years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59529	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59530	A fellow Shuker, just as you said, the truth works, the Center of the Bank is located in the general government budget and because of the Bank's centre, or that 525 million kuna, the general government deficit is growing. That's what these documents say. And as for VAT, of course, VAT will then be charged for the same dynamics that have now been adopted, so we are talking about VAT on imports of goods from the EU, but this shift in VAT payments no longer at the time of entry into Croatia, in customs, but after that sale of these goods, or the placement of these goods, this shift of several months will certainly not be able to be compensated. We will only enter a stable state next year in this sense, but we have created a shift that has created as the finance minister has said and as the budget explains, this is how a 500 million kuna hole was created.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59531	The final word of Minister of Finance, Slavko Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59532	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I also thank the representatives for the debate on budget rebalancing. I would like to say very briefly that the revenue side has been particularly reduced due to the incentives of the economy, and it is also amongst the rates of catering services. All this has been done to try in some way to make our economic sectors more competitive both on the domestic market and on the external market. But I want to make it very clear that not only did the support go through the tax to reduce the burden on the economy. Three reprogrammes where more than 7,000 users submitted a request and reprogrammed 3.2 billion and it is not called a press release, you often use the word, the tax on the press. It's called the government's policy to refinance their liabilities on the due taxes to contract them at a favourable rate for three years. So when we estimated that that wasn't enough either, because the insolvency of companies because of the failed investments in the last five years was so much that it simply needed additional measures. So that's why we've been here together and so on. Financial transaction law with pre-determined settlements. And I've heard a lot of complaints today about the realization of that part I'd say consolidation, financial consolidation, especially of the private sector. Well, now I just want to say a few sentences in that part. In Croatia there is and we knew the system of bankruptcy. I'm just saying that last year, the government wanted to clear up a mess that existed in Croatia violently shut down 30,000 entities. 30,000 entities that did not solve the former government either, but I do not blame her, the judiciary that should have deleted those legal entities, which had enormous claims, damaged Croatia's balance sheet and Croatia's data because these legal entities did not exist. So we wiped out 30 thousand subjects, 30 grand, but that wasn't enough either. Then we found that the fundamental problem of insolvency is the long-term viability of bankruptcy procedures and, in particular, the transformation into bankruptcy where the average duration of the years is ten and a half years, ten and a half years. The record day is not over today, it is the city of Us here in Zagreb, and that is, for example, the eclad city bank Osijek, a municipal company... 15 years ago, the bankruptcy didn't end. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The cost of bankruptcy of the City Bank 400 million kuna, 400 million kunas of the trustee's money spent on irrational proceedings, court proceedings, excessive fees to lawyers, not to list all, high fees for the cost of bankruptcy. Yeah, that's the result of the bankruptcy. But what's the most devastating in the last three years of '11, '12, '13 in bankruptcy as many religious people get? 3 to 5% of your claim. That's why we've all concluded here together we're going with a financial consolidation, with fast procedures where there must be speedy action on the side of the debtor, on the side of the religious side, on the side of the state. I'm conducting this procedure this year. Reported 5,400 requests, 5,400 truth something about 500 large companies everything else small. As resolved by 4400 today, 80% of requests were resolved in the same year when 80% were filed. Unfortunately, very little, which means that it was impossible to resolve most of the demands of a thousand and some of the cases successfully solved, remains unfortunately negatively either there was no justification for such a procedure or there was a will between the creditors and the debtors to find a solution. But what does that mean? This means that we have simply held about 18,000 early spots in these companies, here's the last case finally ended with Vartex where not a small number but a huge number of those who get very little because the wages in the textile industry are the lowest. But we found a solution for the bank's huge claims, for enormous debts towards the Croatian state and our tax... but we found a solution, cleaned up one factory where... We're pulling the remote line on our coat of arms Shuker and I are making and Dragice has no decision on the HBOR Supervisory Board and we're giving guarantees for work abroad, and at the same time, we don't know if we haven't concluded the pre-trial settlement procedure. That these are simple solutions that we have offered that this particular economy can begin to produce, to strengthen capital and that it can restart the requirements for loans. Here I hear complaints that I hear in public from certain businessmen that we've damaged the small ones. I wonder what we're talking about, if those little credentials went to get their money in bankruptcy, what would they get? After 10 years of asking if you would get 3%, the question would you get. Why don't you get 3% after 10 years? Do these little ones have no coverage of their claims? Neither the administration nor the state would get much food and our IRS was not effective in ensuring its claims. To get everything out of the bankers, they made good insurance in these companies. So the choice is very simple, and we don't defend anyone from starting a bankruptcy for their claims. Everyone has that right. And when you start a bankruptcy, we can't run pre-fashion proceedings. Every believer has that right. But the government's message cannot exist on the Croatian economic market with unpaid bills, with blocked accounts, with blockages for a year. Therefore, all these are the efforts we are making to train this economy. And why is that? Well, dubiosis, new expenditures called both greater interest and participation in EU budget costs only the economy with its growth can... and therefore so much investment to make this economy competitive. Active government policy not only through tax changes but also through the battle for financial consolidation. And that's why the truth I know how to react very uncomfortablely. But the correction to the Employers' Association, that the truth is important we differ. I wouldn't want to comment on that employers' association because I don't have a good opinion, as they probably don't have about me. Now I speak personally as Minister of Finance. But you know as far as businessmen are concerned, unfortunately a good part of them is constantly in the ministries, not just with me in every single ministry in charge because they're trying to solve their insolvency problems, indifference, is asking for help to help the Ministry of Finance help them negotiate with both banks and others. Every day we live with them and work with them, we differ significantly between active government policies. This is what we will continue regardless of what some special professors are, especially the professors of Law Faculty, are trying to challenge the model of pre-fashion settlement. But you know them for 15 years maximum, 10 years average 3% get creditors. And we say in a year we've solved almost all the demands that have been filed, but you know the biggest write-off is 70%. It is very rarely used, mostly 30, 40, 50 and what we are trying to push new owners and FGS because they are therefore formed by the former government's decision to participate in this consolidation. Five grand a year. Let me know when it's settled by the judiciary. So try to understand our every move is to try to create a competitive Croatian economy. At this point, the biggest battle is how to repay additional capital because banks are full of money they don't want to go towards the economy. It's not about the risk, it's not enough capital value to take over the loans. There isn't. And the more severe the demands are for the banks. And what I'm saying is we can cut but new costs, which are interest next year 3.6 billion commitments to the state, I apologize, according to the European budget. The withdrawal of 4 billion is not a compensation, 4 billion must be 4 billion and 600, 4 billion and 900 million new projects because every 4 billion is at least 20, 30% of our participation. It is in the budget of compensation, the funds of projects and the permanent expenditure is 3.6 billion from next year for the state, I apologize for the European budget. Without an economy that will start investments, without an economy that will increase the source and where, as far as we can talk about some larger numbers of economic growth is invaluable. So the question remains how much longer we can give the economy to be more competitive, how much more can we give in view of the crisis we have in the state budget and the deficits we have in the state budget. So far, we do not consider it necessary to change the government's policy to support the economy because it is a battle for jobs and economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59533	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59534	Thank you. Mr. Minister, as far as the city bank's bankruptcy and bankruptcy are concerned, NAMA d.d. We do not already know how many years these jobs are neither for the trade court nor for the Croatian Parliament, but clearly for which institution I have told you that an additional state budget needs to be strengthened. And I think that this institution, to strengthen it, could be one of the fastest growing companies in terms of income only if they work effectively and buy the unlawfully acquired property in the Republic of Croatia quite well. As far as the pre-fashion deal is concerned, that's where you got our support from the beginning. But what we don't like, we don't like the swelling, the demand from tied societies that started happening in some companies. And we are not sure that some companies are too large of systems, the pre-fashion settlement has not started to be used in a way to resolve the government's liabilities and that they will almost remain in an unchanged structure due to various claims they have made from the related societies. And I think we're not sure if it's taken enough to make it happen. In the first place, I also think about the EPH group but also some other cases that revolve around pre-fashion settlements. And thirdly, I'm going to repeat again for what time tonight, do you have an answer as to why the MIP's salary budget increased by 17% and 300 million kuna respectively in budget rebalancing? Did the MUP hire more people, whether the MUP has raised people's salaries or what's going on because 300 million kuna is not a small amount, or if it's some kind of MIP recovery, I don't know what form it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59535	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59536	Mr. Representative just needs a change of behaviour in Croatia doesn't always need everything through the law enforcement, just a change of behaviour. You know we still haven't gotten a very clear message about who it is for bankruptcy that lasts 15 years and who isn't. How we take care of every bankruptcy procedure and claim. I'm just saying that through DAB, we're constantly leading the conflict and working with the bankruptcy judge of the Trade Court in Osijek, uninterruptedly trying to re-authorize the one-off assets of the bankruptcy manager and we insist on closing. And we're the greatest believer. Because you know DAB is now a 100% believer because unfortunately everyone else won't get anything because DAB's claims are twice as big as the remaining money after the burned 400 million. Therefore, a change in conduct and a battle for responsibility for every kuna we seek. Yeah, that's our job, we'll run it. Penalties have been filed,... It will need some more money, given that these criminal charges should also be resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about possible abuses, they are there and we meet them daily. But I also told you four thousand 400 cases solved, and it's only a thousand, I said for a while 400, 1045. A quarter is positively solved, three-quarters negative. For every solution you have an explanation, data on web portals. It was here a week ago and promised that we would provide complete information for the Croatian Parliament at the end of this year on pre-demand settlements and what are the effects, and how many jobs and also the name and last name and who are companies and who are responsible people and owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59537	Thank you. Franjo Lucic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59538	Thank you very much. Well, it's a question for Mr. Secretary. So, as far as you're concerned, you've done a great job with these companies that have been in the blockade for years, and that's fine. So none of us advocates court proceedings, and it's really one move where you're in fact, you're not going to, like you said, have any income in particular as a state, but you're going to be out of 50,000 or I don't know how many thousands of cases you're going to reduce to 10 or you're going to shut down all those cases that were in the blockade. But when it comes to pre-banking deals, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, and at the same time we know that we have passed the law that in 30 days and 60 days companies have to pay their bills, all those companies that were in the pre-departure settlement, so if you've approved someone 20, 40, 60 or you said 70% are not approved, as well as how those companies that are damaged, do they also have to participate in the same procedure with their customers. How they will keep their trade assets or that... which is important in every company because without it they can't do business, how and how if we know they can't be in charge of banks like the state is doing today to borrow without a problem, did this company raise certain loans, give its property, and at the same time as I said they have to pay in 30 and 60 days, and this cash flow has been greatly damaged because it will only be able to charge its assets through a certain number of years of the Pre-bank settlement Act. So my question was that there should be no repressive re-application of the law to pay for 30 and 60 days, yes, to seek, but not repressive because many companies are damaged in the pre-fashion settlement because they will only charge their assets in a few years. It's...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59539	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59540	But a very clear answer. They were not damaged by the pre-price settlement procedure, they were damaged by doing business with a completely insolvent legal person, which gave goods and services to someone who may have been blocked for two years, someone who had been irresponsiblely doing business on this market. He lost his capital and his claims in that legal person. Anyone who thinks a pre-demand settlement will damage it has the right to apply for bankruptcy. Every single one of them. Now we're going to abolish those obligations to pay 20 000 kuna, and we're going to relieve them because we think that's a lot of people's obstacle. But what's the message? After 10 years, he'll get 3%, and here it's completely different. The first plan is to make sure that there is something less written down and to pay for the next 3-5 years. Far more favourable conditions than bankruptcy regulations. That's what we're talking about, but there's also no delay in payment. We're trying to raise that discipline with companies where we own. It has to be paid in 30 and 60 days. What we've offered, tax-recognition expenses. If he really has to write something off and it's pre-determined, he can have a tax credit and he won't pay taxes on that part. So everything we've been able to do has been done. And we did something else, if that's why he didn't pay his commitment to the state, I could reprogram it in three years. But his relationship with a business bank has to be resolved on its own if he's still in a state of insolvency. So I don't know what more we should do to show that we're far more efficient than the former system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59541	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal when, as the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59542	Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the draft budget is closed. I am voting on the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and the projection for 2014 and 2015. ... Change and complementary of the budget. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why we're all responsible in the Parliament. The opposition isn't just a statistic. Thank you very much. We must first decide whether we will accept and decide on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 199. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please raise your hand who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 128 votes, we have decided to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Honored Minister to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59543	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government submits a proposal for 3 amendments to the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59544	First amendment, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59545	The first amendment does not change the total amount of funds planned under the draft amendments and additions of the State budget for 2013, but we propose to redistribute the receipts of financial assets and debts in total amounting to 1 billion 887 million 174 thousand and 754 kuna. And the way they redistribute to increase receipts from vault records and bonds, and to reduce borrowing receipts by loans from banks and other financial institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59546	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59547	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Mr. Ministers of Finance of the Republic of Croatia today is 4.12, the possibility of any borrowing and execution of tenders and anything practically narrowed down, and I am surprised that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was aware at the time of the adoption of changes and additions to the State budget for 2013 it was evident that the deficit of the state budget was increasing by 60% compared to the plan. If the deficit increases by 60% it sends you two signals, or you'll have to sell the property to finance that deficit or you'll have to be further in charge of financing those 60%. So, an increase in that 60% deficit is not something that happened 24 or 48 hours ago, it's something that's been spoken of in public practically since the moment of budgeting. And what was known, in practice, with 99% certainty, was that when we saw the implementation of the budget for the first six months, and especially when it was seen, it was, in the end, the finance minister revealed at one press in the Ministry of Finance, so when it was seen what was going to be the charge of the budget for the first nine months then it was clear that the state budget deficit would go up by 50.60% and it's not logical that the government wasn't thinking about how it would finance that deficit. Look, colleagues and colleagues here, in reason of this, are increasing receipts from issued securities by a billion 887 million kuna, out of which the vault records 422 million kunas and bonds of a million 465 thousand kunas and loans received from loans from credit institutions outside the public sector for the same amount of a billion and 887 million kuna. So, if there was something that was known to happen, if the government in the meantime issued twice bonds on the US market, the question is why and we were asking, which will be financed by the latest edition of a billion and 500 million bonds on the US market. At that time, we are told that this moment is the most convenient moment for the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia and will finance itself with these funds, to refinance the commitments of the Republic of Croatia in the first and second months. Which was in some ways incomprehensible if the Ministry of Finance assessed it. However, I'm surprised that what happened, the more the biggest and the most intense, the bile of the debates in this House of Commons, the more political bickering on the left and right has just been the deficit of the state budget and the increase in public debt. You also often like to talk in this House of Highs about how much interest they've jumped up. The question now arises which interest is this way of financing and which interest would be in some other way financing. And the other thing is, it doesn't really matter if you're betraying the vaults for 180 or 360 days or if you're in charge for 5 or 10 years. So it's different but the government is therefore proposing it. Someone will agree to that. We certainly won't agree with that in HDZ. But watch your colleagues and colleagues talk about a billion and 800 million new ways of borrowing, don't you think you could have found a few dozen million to pay off to teachers and transportation costs teachers, too, so they're getting paid overtime. Unfortunately, this only points to one inconsistency, and this cannot be said about the transparency and regularity of public finances, because if you insinuately change the decision you proposed and so broadly defend it 5 days ago in this House of Higher Education, then obviously things aren't exactly the way they want to be shown. But this is the sole consequence of this colleague and fellow state budget deficit compared to what the government planned to increase 60% and you'll probably raise your hand for such an increased deficit, we won't. The HDZ is therefore against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59548	Thank you, too. For the debate on Amendment No. 1, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is no longer interested. I'm closing the debate. I give Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 86 votes in favour and 40 votes against Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been included in the final proposal for amending and supplementing the budget, thus becoming an integral part. Amendment number two, Honored Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59549	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan of out-of-financial users, in accordance with the item f of the State Property Management Agency. The Centre for Restructuring and Sales submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Government and the Government accepted this because of the change in the status of the Agency for the Management of State Property or a better AUDIO, and you have this amendment in many numbers, so you would not enter into any figure. The law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia AUDIO ceased its work on 30 September 2013. A restructuring and sales centre as a legal successor took over all the rights and obligations of AUDIO as well as contracts concluded and court and other proceedings initiated. The Restructure and Sales Centre delivered a decision on the allocation of the AUDIO financial plan for 2013 and killed a year to nine months for the reason that its balance sheet ends from 1.1.-31.12. At the same time, the restructuring and sale centre submitted the balance sheet from 1 June 2013-31 December 2013 with changes to the annual plan at 9 months at AUDIO and one quarterly budget at 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59550	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59551	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. If it weren't true, it would be funny, but it's saddened to say that during the debate on the establishment of a state-run property management office, we didn't warn Mr. Ministers of the people who proposed this law, so it wouldn't be wrong for us. So, isn't it logical that in law you say that someone will stop working on September 30th to make their own financial plan and build a new law if someone takes over his job takes over all the rights and obligations. Therefore, on the basis of this final financial report, the one who took over the AUDI's business takes over all its rights and obligations, so the surplus and the lack of income and everything else. And in the end, it's being determined in the budget. So that's why it serves the budget rebalance to settle certain positions. So what was excess or deficit in AUDI is being moved from AUDI with September 30th and placed on DUDI or where it is already being placed. But I'm saying, obviously, we can do anything whenever we want. However, what concerns me most is what kind of message we send with such decisions if the government publicly acknowledges in its explanation that something has ceased to exist on September 30, 2013. And we're discussing budget rebalancing at the last week of the 11th month. So almost two months after that. And since the law started working more than half a year ago, so those who did the law knew this was going to happen. And how someone's going to work, how someone's going to put state property into office if they're not able to repaint the financial plan. And Mr. Minister, I am asking you nicely that as Minister of Finance and as Proposer on behalf of the Government, we will support you in this, I know that you will also support your colleagues from the ruling coalition that this decision where total income stands and total expenditure does not stand a deficit because it simply does not have such terminology. Because if you look at the other side of the financing account then it's clearly said that it's either a lack or a net funding account. Well, here I am asking you nicely that in some nomotechnical correction we at the HDZ Club will support you, I hope the other colleagues to change, so this is not a deficit but a lack in that too. Then if you write it like that, then the rest of the amendment makes sense to you. If you don't write it like that, then the rest of the amendment unfortunately doesn't make sense. Here are colleagues and colleagues. This best shows how the government treats state finances and how the government refers to the property of the Republic of Croatia. This document is the best testimony. We will, therefore, not support this amendment but support this nomotechnical change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59552	Any other interested in the debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59553	I accept the nomotechnical correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59554	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the respected finance minister accepted the suggestion of the HDZ Club to bring the terminology referred to in point 1 of the amendment and the income and expenditure accounts in line. With that kind of acceptance, I would like to make a statement on Amendment No. 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that we are Amendment No. 2. The governments of the Republic of Croatia accepted and included in the final proposal with 85 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Ministers of Amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59555	I thank the President, the proposal is to amend and supplement the state budget and the financial plans of extra- budget users, in part of the consolidated balance sheet. In view of all of the above mentioned in Amendment 2 and given that the Agency for State Property Management also included in the consolidated balance sheet, the Government proposes amendments with the positions of the Management Agency... Considering the nine-month balance sheet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59556	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour, and 1 abstention of amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the draft amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and the projection for 2014 and 2015. For the adoption of Amendments and the addition of the budget, most of them, of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament, are required, that is 76 hands in accordance with Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes for, 43 abstentions, no, 43 against and 2 abstentions, we have brought amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59559	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, second reading, PZ No. 511 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law, Article 211. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance, the State Budget; Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison; Law; War Veterans; Health and Social Policy; Regional Development and European Funds; Environment and Nature Protection; Economy and Defence. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Finance Minister Slavko Linic. He says there's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59560	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. So on a technical change of law, I came across for a simple reason, to clear up some stories about the growth of public debt, as much as it has grown for a simple reason, I said in my debate last week, there's a document called the finance account and that made the Ministry and adopted this government, where exactly how much the government owes and how much public debt to finance the deficits, and this remains... are to refinance some liabilities from previous years so they have some commitments that are refinanced for a second or third time for a simple reason, until the state comes into the sovereign state budget can't talk about repaying credit. And that term of public debt is growing due to the repayment of the loan is simply incorrect, because if you took up credit to repay the old loan you did not increase the public debt. The only thing that can increase for you, and unfortunately because of the economic crisis, many credits have been raised in some more favourable times when they were historically low interest rates in 2003, '04, '05, '06. For years, and unfortunately, the reprogramme was coming in at the age when the interest rate jumped up. And the other thing, obviously, and this is seen from these political debates that take place in the Parliament, a lot of these loans that are being reprogrammed are loans from institutional banks that have been raised at an incomparably lower interest rate than the state is currently in debt, and because of this, when we talk about interest growth, interest in one year is growing solely for the credit as much as the government is obliged to finance the deficit and for the amount of the higher interest rate in reprogrammed loans compared to this. And if the loans weren't all in the last eight years, I'd only given myself a few points. Also when we talk about funding and funding models, then you'll see that here, among other things, you have 600 million HABORs and FGSs because simply the state has no money, it has to be in debt. But what is important in this High House and what is important because of Croatian citizens, which is important because of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia that we do not deal with facts that are not true. I'm not gonna use the hard term. Why did I say this all together? So look at colleagues and colleagues, Article 1 clearly states that the state will be in charge of 4 billion and 800 million kuna more, actually the Ministry of Finance is asking permission to cover most of this deficit as much as it has increased. Also in article two, Article 29 says that the share of public debt in the gross domestic product will be 58%. It says 60% here. So that's the pure consequence of the deficit. And since I've already said I'm going to read some of the reprogrammed loans, that's where you have socially stimulating housing. Everybody likes to brag, like this, all the time. In the past, loans have been raised for the project and 63 million kunas have returned for the project last year. This year is due to return 230, actually reprogramme, not return 238, next 240. Then you have that day of guarantees to the public sector and now there's a guarantee reserve. You know exactly what it is. These are guarantees that were once shown that days and you, each year in the budget, had to make among other things a guarantee reserve and from that guarantee reserve, return these loans and pay and are, therefore, the financial cost at that time. And what happened with shipbuilding, they were once as a deficit shown in 2011. However, these loans will likely be reprogrammed for more ohho years until the Croatian state comes into surplus. So, among other things, we have loans to county budgets, loans through the founding capital of HBOR, promotion of exports, infrastructure, economic activity, and a small and medium-sized economy of 600 million kuna. So in order for the state to give it, 600 million kuna must be in debt. But as there are records here, there are records in all recent years and who have been given a guarantee, what kind of, criminal, financial, also to whom a guarantee has been charged by the state, therefore a protested guarantee. All of this is there, so you have for here Mr. Minister mentioned a short time ago investment in economic co-operation funds of 380 million kunas. It also goes through HBOR because when the state came forward with a proposal to establish the FGS, then it was said that the government's stake would be paid through HBOR. So you had 50 last year, this year 380, the next two years it's 200 million each. So you've got an H.H.R. rebuilding the locomotive 17 million last year, 17 million this year. So project modernisation and restructuring of Croatian railways last year 64, this year 64, 2014. Thirty-two. A project to rebuild and protect coastal forests 23 million. Other software loan for the adjustment of so-called PAL2 of 75 million, and again Croatian railways with these loans of Croatian railways why I'm picking them up. These are loans that are practically reprogrammed from 2003 to this. And get it over with so I don't owe you any more. So, colleagues and colleagues, public debt increases by the amount of deficits and by nothing else. What the reprogramme for this amount does not increase public debt because these loans, in fact with these loans is a financed deficit from some previous years or some programme which was a deficit some year and this increased the public debt at the time when it was shown as the cost of the state budget, i.e. when it increased the deficit. Why am I saying that? I speak for the reason that Croatia was on the deficit in 2008, in fact the stake, the public debt was, the share of public debt in the gross domestic product was 28%. And now that you look at the start of the economic crisis in 2009, the tenth, eleventh, twelveth, thirteenth, and fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth projections, there was an explosion of deficits and there was an automatic explosion of public debt. And that's why today, and my colleague Dalic, and later in an individual debate, we simply tried to say what the Croatian budget looks like. And unfortunately, his expendable side is the result of inaction. And we can fight now as much as, when, what, but he's like this today for inaction. And when you look at his structure, he will unfortunately be far more dangerous for the state budget and deficit next year. Because next year, if you looked at the State Budget Implementation Act, then this figure with 31 billion how much it takes to borrow the Republic of Croatia to jump to over 42 billion. And those who sell the money when they see that Croatia needs to be in debt 42 billion and they will find a way to find out at which price they will sell the bonds and take advantage of this situation that we are in. And I repeat again what I said several times. For years, we have been told that we have that security coefficient far greater because we are insecure, that we are negotiating to join the EU. We have now entered the EU, and this same team is punishing us again in the same way. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues are doing this much truth because this is the document made by this government, it was not made by the HDZ Government, and there is an increase in your public debt in 2013 exclusively for the government budget deficit because there was no sale of assets. All loans reprogrammed do not increase public debt. It can potentially increase the interest difference on the spending side. And it's not true that the deficit is this big because some old debts are coming back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59561	Minister final? Minister of Finance Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59562	Public debt remains the question whether in Croatia we take seriously enough when we say that we owe as a state 200 billion kuna. Therefore, the public debt is created in two ways. One is a deficit and the other is a problem and one is the debt of the companies we run with, so we create dubious ones and take over guarantees on ourselves because without these guarantees there is no functioning. Therefore, what this government is trying to say is how to resolve public debt. Because it's not just important to stop the deficit. It's not a problem, and that's even a minor problem, but how we're gonna repay our debts. In the last 23 years of our existence, the Croatian state has not paid back a single kuna of debts. We are always simple for a while because of the war, and then I would say porn, and then I would say raising consumption because we still have to admit that budget expenditure at the time when there were not so many deficits increased expenditures, so now we have problems because we are hit by the crisis in both the Croatian economy and Europe. We don't pay back our debts, and we say, gentlemen, we have to think about how to pay back our debts because it's the debts that brought down our credit rating and that's why we have a bigger interest. And those debts make interest. You will allow when I look at the deficits according to EUROSTAT's 64 billion method is in 2009, 2010 and 2011, because they add up these shipbuildings, etc. Because it wasn't solved at the time they were born. Just as we will get the health dues that remain because we have not completed the health reform process. 64 billion in 3 years, we 10 billion last or on EUROSTAT as many as 16 billion. This year 16, it means in two years 32 billion. Yeah, that's right. Therefore, these are problems not repaying debts, growing interest, and on the other hand new debts because we cover our dues with new debts. That's why the government decided to step up last week. Why? We estimate that the market stands well, that there are currently no greater interests and we took advantage of the opportunity. We're not in charge of 2013, we're not. In documents that are very rigorous because they run London's lawyers we're in charge of a billion and 750 million dollars is pre-financing for 2014. So we can observe more calmly and pay off debts in the first quarter of next year, and also finance deficits at the beginning of next year. Therefore, it was the reason that we only estimated that the market was better than waiting to see how the market would move in January and February. So we can prepare for the second part of the year. Yes, 42 billion kuna is due next year. 50% of that on the external market, slightly less than 3 billion euros on the external market. As we can see, our data is no longer good, the deficit is over 5%, and on the other hand, debts above 60% of GDP. These are two so negative indicators that we will pass the excessive deficit process when we talk about relations with the EU. But there remains a basic problem where we see problems? We see them in that we have nothing to cut. It's very rigorous to cut. You can't cut your wages anymore, you can't cut your pensions anymore, you can't even cut your social benefits. Yeah, that's hard to cut. We've cut material spending in 2 years, subsidies as you can see are slowly disappearing. We can only go on that the economy must have economic growth. We must fight to train this private sector and, on the other hand, that the state sector is going to more national investment because it is also a new job and some investment and some kind of economic growth. This is where the Government of the Republic of Croatia sees the outcome of the battle for economic growth, the battle for the workplace and is therefore an uninterrupted investment towards the economic sector. That is why the government is active in all processes when it comes to the consolidation of both the private and state sectors. There's one more question left what about paying off debts? Is it our future to maybe fix the budget deficit? So what are we going to do with 240 billion? No, obviously we have to get him back. Can we pay him back by raising taxes? No, we can't pay him back by raising taxes. So, the battle to tackle at least the deficit, not to have deficits and not to produce new debts through consumption, which means covered liabilities to Europe and covered liabilities to interest and all the demands we have in the state budget where there's the Peace Fund essentially has the largest deficit, slightly less than 18 billion. Every year we're short on pensions. We need to cover this up. But what about 240 billion in two years? And all that remains is the issue of privatisation. How to settle our debts with assets, the assets we have to sell, the shares we have to sell, but then there's always thesis, now it's a crisis, it's not the time, it's not this, it's not that. And we consider the property, because the government's programme is because where we had a strategy to manage the assets of the Republic of Croatia that we want to say, we have to do something. There's something else when we're talking about property. To review all concession agreements, we gave them lightly, we gave them sufficient conditions for concessionaires, and apparently that part of the revenue must be increased. So, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the income side is the repayment of debts, the management of assets. We put this into operation and it is a battle to fight to reduce public debt, nothing else, and of course if we succeed in having larger exports and if we have greater economic growth then relative debt relations fall, but for Croatia, our economy, our budget, tomorrow 240 billion are talking about 2015.It will be very, very problematic, very problematic. If we don't show that we're starting to reduce, we have to realize that we're going to have a very hard time financing and funding even if we don't have new deficits and funding. Therefore, government policy must go, and battle for the economy, job, economic growth and debt reduction, and that is why we think we need to talk about public debt, it has now become simply the biggest problem, a bigger problem than the deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59563	Thank you. And the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59564	Thank you very much. I don't think it's a replica, more to clear things up. I think the minister and I spoke exactly the same. However, in 2008 Croatia had the best results, among the best, among the three best countries in the EU, according to mystic criteria. We had a 0.8 deficit, and we also had a share of the public debt of 28%, and then they wanted to push us into things. You mentioned one thing here, Mr. Minister, which directly binds when you talk about what counts in the deficit by Eurostat method. So, on the one hand, we're saying that state-owned companies have to invest, and on the other hand, the deficit minus these state-owned companies is entering our consolidated deficit to say countries by Eurostat. On the third hand, look at all the documents, from the 2000s you signed as Prime Minister, and all the ones we all signed, and now you and the IMF, whether or not you were... The arrangement or not, their story is constantly privatized, privatized, privatized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this context of the deficit calculation, the question arises whether at some point the state can really manage some things better or when someone comes on the side, remember only two segments. One government sold 36% of HT and the other one had to sell 15% because it simply had nothing to finance the deficit, so that at the end of two or three years, when we started withdrawing profits from HT from those 40% and something else we had in two years, we pulled more than we got by 51%, but the price of it was dictated by someone else. And that's why it's just a good school, and we'll be careful in the future. And we can talk about our public debt as a threat, he's our statistical hazard. But we are really at risk of what generates public debt, which is a deficit, and the deficit generates a spending-side budget that has unfortunately been laid down for years and no one has enough political power to clear up. They're facts that are what they are. I'm saying, we can go as politically as far as we want, but we'll get to the same point again, and that's the real problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59565	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote later. Minister, thank you and your associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59566	Let's move on. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, second reading, PZ No. 511. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour and 44 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59567	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law amending the laws on agricultural advisory services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 515. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59568	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The agriculture ministry has been working intensively for two years to reform and adapt the agricultural sector to the new conditions that are in place after Croatia's entry into the EU. In this respect, important steps have been taken over the past period in all areas within the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. One of the most important areas that are also the cornerstone of the overall agricultural reform is the strengthening of knowledge in agricultural production. The institution responsible for informing the manufacturer and improving their expertise is the agricultural advisory service. After the adoption of the Agricultural Advisory Service Act in 2012 NN No. 50/2012. There is an additional consideration of the space for improving its work and for taking an even more important role in the development of Croatia's agriculture, which is why we propose these amendments. The Agricultural Advisory Service is an important instrument for implementing the EU common agricultural policy established in all EU Member States. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU in addition to the main consultations of farmers before the advisory service also presents additional challenges. This primarily relates to the implementation of rural development measures to be financed from the EU Rural Development Fund of the second pillar, whose significant resources will be available in the period 2014-2012 and for its use, the information and preparation of agricultural producers and local self-government workers is crucial. These amendments to the laws create a legal assumption for the more efficient provision of consulting services and professional support to farmers, fishermen and forest owners. The most significant innovation proposed by these amendments to the law concerns the accession of forest advisory staff to the agricultural advisory service. The forest advisory service was established by a regulation establishing the forest folk service of NN No. 64/2006 as a specialised public institution for the performance of works of part of public authority and for the improvement of forest management and forest land in forest owners' forests. The Law amending the Law on the Forests of NN 124/2010 attached the forest advisory service to the Commercial Society of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. The amendments to this law set out the consultative activities in forestry are set out in a commercial society and are united with the existing system of agricultural consultation. In doing so, 9 employees of the Forest Services will become an integral part of the Agricultural Advisory Service as a separate sector. The rounding of all advisory activities in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture plans to achieve synergies in work and greater operational efficiency needed for the upcoming tasks, in particular the use of resources available to EU funds. In addition to the model for advisory services in EU countries, the framework for the provision of specific consulting services, the production of business plans, studies, analysis and the like in the field of agricultural activity which the Agricultural Advisory Service can provide to interested users, depending on the availability and capacity of its experts. This will further strengthen the position and competitiveness of the National Agricultural Advisory Services under the conditions of the open market following the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the law shall be adapted to the title and the scope of the service activity shall be defined in respect of the area of forestry, the conditions for service bodies shall be laid down and the conditions for the total redesign of the Agricultural Advisory Service shall be laid down for the upcoming period. The proposed amendments make assumptions for further adapting the Statutes of the Agricultural Advisory Service and the operational implementing acts of the Agricultural Advisory Service. Finally, due to the national importance and scope of future tasks of the Agricultural Advisory Service, it is necessary to make changes to the legal basis for its action and we therefore propose the adoption of the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59569	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of representatives of HDZ and counterpart Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59570	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Advisory Service with the Final Proposal. Namely, when we talk about the advisory service then, as heard from the Minister's presentation here, it is about the separation of the work that has been done so far that the Croatian forest is separated from its system of advisory services as it used to be. Of course, this is about the forest talk, so I will say a few words through my exposure that we have a forest of about 2.7 million hectares in the Republic of Croatia and according to data from the forest economy base area for the period 2006-2015, thus 70% of the total forest area and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The rest of the forest and forest land, so about 700 thousand hectares, are private-owned forests. A large part of these forests have been depreciated and the number of owners is almost equal to the number of hectares of forest owners. Average size of private forests from 0.9 to 1.2 hectares. The aim of forest management in the Republic of Croatia is a sustainable and coherent use of all forest functions and a permanent improvement of their status. The final result we need to achieve is to form an advisory service that, for example, in the field of forestry, taking into account a large number of forest owners, information and the possibilities of forest owners, but significant funds from the EU support programme could adequately respond to all requests from forest owners. These amendments to the Law 9 employees of the Forest Forest Service in the Directorate of the Croatian Forests and 20 experts in the administrations of the forest branches become employees of the private sector of the Agricultural Advisory Service. But I'm afraid 29 people are not enough to cover the entire Republic of Croatia. In 2006, the Forest Advisory Service, which carried out the same amount of operations that should have been carried out by the forestry sector of the advisory service under this proposal, employed 80 workers. Furthermore, are the agricultural advisory offices sufficiently branched across the territory of the Republic of Croatia? Can I meet the needs of the forest owner? Let us not forget that these places are adapted to agricultural production. Today, we have 168 forests that the forest owners could speak to. To what extent will the address of the forest owners be able to contact after the adoption of this law? The identification of trees in forest forest owners of tree characteristics and other forest products and the issue of an escort of surveillance over the implementation of the forest order, after the performance of forest works, represent 100% public authority. This proposal for a law in Article 4(4) shall transfer this public authority to third parties, licensed persons of the performer. Who's gonna be that person? What will be the procedure for their engagement? Is there a new monopoly here? It's going to be picturesque. The annual rate in forests, forest owners according to the forest economic base of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2015 is 704 thousand or 705 thousand cubic metres. So the licensed persons need 600,000 cc's of the net mass of wood varieties from private forests to identify, measure and mark. They should also issue emissaries for cca. 30,000 trucks, tractors all over the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The same Article 20 also proposes that 20 persons, at the request of forest owners, arrange to sell their forest products. I would call this a very unserious way of solving a problem that is obviously a burden for Croatian forests. Croatian forests are the holder of FSC certifications that guarantee that the forest is managed according to strict ecological social and economic standards. By transferring powers to private forests to the advisory service of the Croatian forest, balastica is being disposed of. The problem of the gray zone in private forests, forest owners should have been resolved by restructuring the Croatian forests, which will certainly happen, not by transferring 29 employees to the advisory service and by pushing the problem under the carpet. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lists forests as areas with special protection. This is about the national resource that needs to be protected whether it is about forests owned by a state or those owned by private property. Furthermore, the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement in the draft law states that the implementation of this law will not have implications or require additional resources in the state budget. The national budget for 2013 set the amount of €42 million for the agricultural advisory service. The budget rebalance reduced this by 4 million, so about 37 million. But we see that in the budget for the following year these funds will be increased to 40 million kuna. The question is which funds will finance the organisation of professional education, workshops, seminars in the area of forestry for forest owners, as well as other tasks and tasks referred to in Article 4(2) of the draft law within this proposed amount, within the budget. Another important problem is the capacity of the staff to carry out the advisory activities referred to in the same article, taking into account the fact that they are forest engineers and wood industry. I would especially like to point out here, and this is what we said on the board today about the reduction of personal incomes for these people concerned by the profession, the forestry engineer who will be transferred to the advisory service, allegedly and so it is said that their personal incomes will be less than they have been since they were employees of the Croatian Forests. In this opening part, I touched on the new components of the forest advisory service. However, the amendment of the name of the law seems more appropriate and in order to protect both agriculture and forestry and fisheries, so that the new law is not only stopped at the advisory service, but rather the Law on Advisory in Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Rural Development. So, Mr. Minister, if possible and if you think that would be good, here I am asking you to change that. In the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by the Amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, the amendment promoter states that a better legal assumption will be created for the efficient, efficient provision of basic and specific consulting services and professional support to farmers, fishermen and forest owners. It would be better to define more precisely the authority but also the responsibility of the advisory service. Furthermore, I could not read from the proposal which sources will finance 27 jobs and tasks of advisory activity, and I suppose it will come from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, I would say that the idea of gathering all advisory services in one place is a very good move but unfortunately carried out in a completely wrong way at least as far as the forestry sector is concerned. The adoption of such a bill will further deepen the gray area of availability for wood varieties in the forests of forest owners. And that, unfortunately, could have a bad impact on our national treasure, the forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59571	Damir roman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59572	Honorable vice president, respected ministers with associates. My colleague Lucic, well, I'm actually impressed by your debate, especially because from the position of the exhibitor on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, you've actually touched on both the Minister and all those who deal with forestry. I'll remind you. On 2 June 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation establishing a forest advisory service. It seems to me that HDZ was in power in 2006. On 4 February 2010, the Government adopted the Regulation amending the Regulation establishing a forest advisory service. I also think it's 2010. HDZ was in power. So, to go from a perspective that of course your concern for these 9 plus 20 professional employees who will now cross from the Croatian Forests under the advisory service do not think it is bad, I think it is good. You called this move good but that it was done wrong, finished quote. But I haven't heard your constructive criticism or suggestion about it. So you gave one observation that the move was good but carried out the wrong way. What would you do? The question that I am giving you is why the forest advisory service was established if it was treated in machete during this period. We can talk about the agricultural and advisory service, but I'll probably get a chance to talk about it later. You mentioned literally, quote, an unserious way to solve the problem. So what you've been waiting for for for 8 or 10 years, and the HDZ government hasn't solved this problem in an adequate and quality way. I also quote, the problem was to be solved by restructuring the Croatian forests. So what the HDZ government hasn't done in the past 8 or 10 years, but now that the SDP government is in charge of this problem, when it cleans up what's wrong, you're criticizing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59573	Thank you very much. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59574	A fellow Roman, obviously we didn't understand each other. So in my presentation today at the Committee on Agriculture, we all unanimously supported this bill and no one said that the HDZ government is not what you said in 2006, '08. She had a counseling service. We are in favour, but in order to be more thorough in accessing this restructuring, that 29 employees, and that is the conclusion today and on the board, will not be able to carry out these tasks. And I said in my statement that the former advisory service you were talking about had 80 employees. Maybe it shouldn't have been 80, maybe it was too massive, maybe it was a huge budget cost, but 29 employees won't be enough since I know how and how it works in forestry, it won't be enough to do this kind of demanding work. And in the end, I just said that we did, but we're afraid that because of the lack of employees, we're about to take advantage or because of the gray zone, and that we're going to be able to see that some jobs are done the way they don't have to. So we are for that, but I say an insufficient number of employees is just that question, before it was 80, it will be 40 now, but 29 for the whole of Croatia is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59575	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59576	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, I will also trouble these 29 employees and agree with you that this will not be a sufficient number. I will also quote on page 2 of the introductory part of the text the last paragraph when it says that this law provides for a rapid reorganisation in the public sector in order to make use of available European Union funds and to implement structural reforms in agriculture, fisheries, rural development and forestry is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. So if we want to withdraw funds from the European Union, I want to remind both you and the Minister and all of us here that there is no hasty withdrawal of funds from the European Union. So the fact is that we have paid $1.4 billion in the budget of the European Union, and we have not drawn anything from that same budget so far as I know. We may be, but I'm not familiar with that fact. But we could also hear Mr. Greek's vice president saying that we'd be in plus compared to the one paid it seems to me 6 billion euros or kuna, I didn't understand enough, but anyway. So the unquestionable fact is that the budget also provides for too little funding to plan everything, it seems to me about 120 million kuna, and if we want to withdraw funds from the European Union primarily when we talk about agriculture, that is that agricultural envelope that seems to me to be 3.3 or 3.5 billion euros, i.e. around 25 billion kuna. I'm afraid this way we'll be in a position to withdraw those funds. So I agree with your concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59577	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59578	So that's what I was talking about, to read from what I was about to say that these forest owners must tomorrow rely on European funds, both in the state forests and in the forests of the private need to make trains, it is necessary to arrange all that is necessary for this natural wealth to be used and to come to the market. It is certainly alarming, therefore, that this number of employees will not give that support to all forest owners, especially when they are fragmented as I said in small parcels, and that is why today the debate on the board and was and we agreed that we should see that in the future the number of employees is higher because I say, this number will certainly not be able to act on the function required of the advisory service. But once again, the biggest damage will be if we enter the gray zone and if simply that system doesn't work then and these 29 employees who will get paid, which will cause the budget cost, whether the state budget or the budget of the Croatian Forests, but probably in the state budget will not contribute to what we wanted, but will essentially be thrown away and will not be spent for the purpose that we have advocated here through this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59579	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59580	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lucić, you spoke well and of course I agree with you not only because we are from the same club but you have simply been very concerned with the question of these 29 employees. We here in this bill do not know what structure or what they would do, or where they would work, and certainly we cannot agree with the finding of the deputy of Mr. Minister Mrs. Spanish who said that simply those 29 people wanted to enter that so-called. The advisory service, no matter what their wages will be, is simply not to believe at all. And these 29 people have one big task ahead of them, which is to take advantage of EU funds. And, of course, another thing that you've done very well, and I hope the minister appreciates it, which is the name of the advisory service. Thus, it also does not stand for the conclusion of Ms. Deputy Spain that it has read somewhere in some documents, that there is no agricultural, advisory service in EU countries. There is, but there is a Chamber of Agriculture. So, we here the proposal is to change the name because the foresters enter that service. But we need to know that there are beekeepers in that advisory service. But if he loses that service identity, and under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, I don't understand why the same name could not be the agricultural advisory service that naturally unites all the things he does. Advocacy may be, I think you will agree with fellow Lucic and marriage advisory and any other advisory and simply do not see any reason to change that name. I really don't see, I've seen, I've asked around, I've asked myself today after the board, you know, and it's not true that there is no Agricultural Advisory Service or Agricultural Chamber that has the role of advisory service in EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59581	Thank you very much. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59582	Well, I agree with my colleague, Sumrak, fully with you because I think this supplement, and this is about the Ministry of Agriculture, is about the resources belonging to the Ministry of Agriculture, to add to the Agricultural Advisory Service, so for fisheries, for forestry, rural development wouldn't mind. But here I asked the minister, so he'll say whether it's appropriate or not. When we talk about these people who worked in the Croatian forests today, tomorrow they are in this advisory service, so they will certainly have to restructure Croatian forests because they are part of a state-owned company. Like all other state-owned companies, they must experience the fate of restructuring. But if this didn't turn out just let's get rid of them, 29 employees, we don't have anything to do with them anymore, and on the other hand, we don't get inefficient advisory services. That's why I'd like to ask you anyway, to try to understand the circumstances. If it used to work 80, we might turn that up. We don't have to work 80 to make that kind of cost. But we certainly see that maybe a year or so or I don't know when they get the chance, to increase a certain number of people so that they can carry out this very important activity in the advisory service.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59583	The word now has Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here are the ministers five minutes after the amended Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59584	I thank the esteemed vice president. I'll try not to use those five minutes. I actually thought since you've been in this respected home all day today, you have a lot of debates, actually unite and wait for the end. But given the exposure of fellow Lucic to the club, but also to a large number of replicas, I had to get involved right away. You remember 2006. 80 employees. I do not understand why you then killed this advisory service and joined it with a commercial company owned by the Republic of Croatia, which rules only with 70 percent of the state forest. In this way, 30% of actually private forests and forest land, forest owned in the Republic of Croatia, solved quality services. That's the first question. You are talking about 80 employees who worked not according to the data of people who worked in the Croatian forests. That's about 30 people we take over and work and not split up like you said, but we're actually doing synergy and strengthening the advisory service. Why the name of the advisory service? In this service there is a large number of colleagues, the twilight of high-quality and veterinarians who provide veterinary services. Then why wouldn't it be a name and veterinary? We want to mention fishermen, a fishing sector that is extremely important, where a number of experts in the Advisory Service work and they are not named. The advisory service is a perfectly satisfying name that unites all activities that this future effective institution will... Don't mention marriage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marriage is pretty scary these days, so it's not a subject. I run the Ministry of Agriculture and work on making this institution efficient, quality, what needs to be a service to agricultural producers. There were even more interesting questions whether it was actually restructuring and assistance to the Croatian forests of 29 employees, the respected chairman of the club board, in fact, the parent, on behalf of the club you spoke. Well, it's been months since the restructuring of the Croatian forests. Almost 500 or 600 people have already been reduced in the Croatian forests that it was not talked about in addition to severances, with a change of activity in the form of external co-workers or whatever. The business results of Croatian forests with lower incomes because we have reduced and relieved the parafiscal burden of the Croatian economy for the general useful function of the forest by 50%, some 150, 160 million are more than on the former administrations of the Croatian forests the crime has been reduced, the theft has been reduced, the rationality and restructuring of the entire set of measures for the promotion and consolidation of the work of the Croatian forests is ongoing and will continue. These 29 people are not separated from the Croatian Forests in the Advisory Service to help Croatian forests. Croatian forests are stronger, better and have better quality business results than ever back ten years. Look at some reports, look at the balance sheets, and they'll confirm it to you. I think the esteemed colleague of the Box mentioned funds, payments and withdrawals. When you talk about my portfolio, you probably thought of the tenth and eleventh year when it was a shameful little withdrawal in the IPARD this year. Last year we had 65%, and this year we're using 100%, so we're not still paying for agriculture. I am talking about the programming period of the fourteenth when we will have available through the Rural Development Programme 332 million kuna per year, and we are preparing the whole system in fact to make it stronger in the advisory section, the better, the better, the better, and thus help our farmers if it is not already your governments that made it in time to make them better, more competitive, more ready for a competition in the EU, then my ministry heads me up. And be sure while I run it, while this team of people is with me that we're gonna do it. It shows the results and now the usability of the funds, shows all the reforms we've made so far. That's how it's gonna go on. The remaining more or less likely will be further consideration or in the final word, but I think this is how the advisory service, that there was a question of how to deal with 40 million? By reducing costs, reducing waste and reducing all that unnecessary waste to cold drive, to national teams, to unnecessary travel costs and so forth. 40 million of the advisory service strengthened by 29 people compared to what we have so far will be quite enough. And when we talk about the care of the Croatian forests, there are a few hundred excellent experts from graduated forestry, master's, doctoral sciences and in the same names of people who are related to wood and wood technology and make sure that they will do excellent work on Croatian forests and forest-economic bases covered by the Republic of Croatia within their basic tasks, their core business management of Croatian forests. Among other things, these people will work for private forest owners and will strengthen that part of the advisory service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59585	Thank you, Minister. We have three replicas. Miss Sumrak, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59586	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, you mentioned in 2010, 2009, in 2008, you did not but did not mention the negotiations. Now what you're saying about pulling out of the cohesion funds, what you're saying and saying is that you're going to have a position, and you're going to have one. You know who gave it to you? The HDZ Government and its expert negotiators because they agreed to you, colleague Baranovic, you are so much needed in this, and do not pray to God dearly, Mr. Minister knows this very well, and individuals who have not left him yet, and envelopes and all this has been arranged for you by the HDZ team. That's one thing. And I wouldn't laugh, but I would tell the truth once in my life, and I wouldn't do sloppy things. And two is the advisory service. You're telling me who works. Well, of course we know all the professions and everything. I wonder why you changed the Ministry of Agriculture, the water economy and rural development only to the Ministry of Agriculture? For what? The agricultural advisory service must be merely a advisory service. Your answer has no excuse but simply that you want it. All I care about is who's instructing you? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59587	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So no one's instructing me, I have the highest responsibility as head of the ministry with my team to conduct public policies. When you say why we were changing, we were actually correcting the injustice of petty political trade between you and the coalition partner of HSS when you shared Croatian forests and water and crossed over one and another former minister and then in some way shared the spoils, or influence in public enterprises. We have done what is natural for Croatian waters, forests and agriculture to be unique. Very simply, I take responsibility for the management of this portfolio and be sure that as long as I lead it along with my team, no matter what individuals leave sooner or later because they cannot follow the rhythm or can't implement the public policies that most in this House and this government have drawn up to implement in that way that is most correct and best for Croatian agriculture, forestry, fisheries and the entire sector that runs. I think in this part of it, if you're already talking about the funds and the great efficiency and merits of that team that you've been negotiating, I'd be happy if 50 million euros hadn't failed in 2010 and 2011 and not used in that same IPARD. You programmed it, you arranged it, and you didn't use it. Unfortunately, it's a fact and it's simply inconclusive why it goes to the souls of those who haven't done it. The current administration, the current paying agency, has results behind it. And when you talk about these programmes and everything else, the rural development programme as the most important strategic document of this ministry, based on which to draw these funds, among other things, has defined measures and priorities. The first priority is the EU-wide promotion of knowledge, innovation in agriculture, forestry and rural development and the 1st priority of strengthening the link between agriculture and forestry. One of the reasons why we united this institution of advisory services in this form is to make it more efficient, to be better service, better support for both our farmers and fishermen and farmers, as well as forest owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59589	Igor Czech, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59590	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I must first of all say that the HDSSB club will support such a legal proposal because the tradition of the Agricultural and Advisory Service is as old as the Croatian State is. And absolutely that it should be advocated to improve the work of the Agricultural Advisory Service and the Agricultural Advisory Service because these 233 persons are employed in the Agriculture and Advisory Service if we know that there are 180 agencies in the Republic of Croatia who employ over 21,000 people. But two things that bother me, I'm called the advisory service. Therefore, I believe that it should remain the omen of the Agricultural and Advisory Service solely for that reason because if you use the Internet and Google the advisory service you could call the customer service because all agricultural producers are also users. And then in the first place in the search engine, you'd be thrown out by the VIP-net User Service, Optime Telecom, THT. Therefore, there is no likely mention of the word "farmers" or "agricultural" anywhere. It's the first thing that bothers me with this law. The second thing, in the Strategy for the Development of the Agricultural Advisory Service, is mentioned that 233 persons are working and that by 2015 the number of employees is planned to increase to 255. So, if we now have 233 persons employed and add to them 29 officials of the Forest Advisory Service, we come up with a number of 262 persons. So we've already exceeded the number written in this strategy. Now, one more thing about that strategy. It was written by the Director of Agriculture and Consultative Services where we could read in the media that you requested her resignation. I am now particularly interested in whether this resignation has been resolved by that principal, and perhaps that is where the amendment of article eight is hiding where you prescribe what, what criteria must be met by the director. So he can be a veterinary direction and I absolutely support the forest, and I agree that that's how it is. But does this article hide the employment of a similar person? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59591	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think we're talking all the time about the form and not the content, and here we heard that in 2006,2010, an advisory forest service was killed, that it was not effective in the way it was imagined as an institution with the number of people it had. We have a agricultural advisory service that has been functioning for years in a way that is not the most efficient and that we cannot be with regard to coming from the same region, most satisfied, is neither close to the models that mark the work and way of operating advisory services in advanced EU agricultural countries. I want our advisory service to be very similar or almost equal to the results of the Dutch Advisory Service, which has a completely different model of the relationship of consultants with family economies, crafts and companies that work and whose results are measurable on the farms themselves, in the fields themselves, in plastics, greenhouses and other things. That's how this service's gonna work. You asked the question for Vd Director Mikšić, that I was dissatisfied with one part of the work and reorganization of the advisory service itself with what I set as a goal because I want to have a Dutch, Austrian or Slovenian service which is indeed a service and support for our agricultural producers. Ours has not been transformed in this section, the Administrative Council will decide when the tender will be opened and which will be the administrative section of the future advisory service. When we speak of this name once again, it is a form, we went to the united name of the advisory service out of respect and out of respect for the importance and other segments of the advisory work that this service covers. You tell me that the foresters are less important, or wood processors in part than agriculture itself. Given the results, exports and other exceptional importance of fishermen who are the only ones in a significant surplus, have excellent results in exports, the same should be found in that name, so that this united name went to something that is a compromise solution but which covers the entire activity related to the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59593	And the last replica, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I don't really know why Mr. Minister has sharpened the situation from a peaceful debate where we've talked to the Committee today, I think you've turned this debate into an atmosphere that really isn't appropriate and is not appropriate. Namely, all this stuff you said, you didn't say anything exactly. I've been in forestry longer than you, you've been Minister for two years, and I've been in forestry for 12 years and I know all the results of Croatian forests and your result this year will not be better than the previous 10, 11 years, just knowing. Second of all, you said that we were negotiating funds. Well, Mr. Darling, you came to power in 2011 when the Croatian Government led the HDZ negotiated all the chapters within the EU and you said yourself that we had a small retreat in 2012 so you know why? Because we couldn't, because it was only negotiated and the end of the year came, the elections came and you came to power. And let them withdraw in 2012 and 2013. Far more funds, however, but you sharpened the situation, you sharpened it. So don't say that you negotiated when it's the former government, it doesn't matter which and what it was called, and it was called the HDZ government, therefore, it's true. Secondly, the results of the Croatian forests and 60 and 80 million kunas have been obtained which you will not achieve this year and far greater profits. Don't patronise those professional people who were presidents of the administration and ministers over the past years because it's not nice. And you really looked at all your colleagues in a rough way as if they didn't know anything and now you've come as saviors in the Croatian forests and you'll solve all the problems. Well, the Croatian forests have solved all problems before, so you will solve them as well. But don't talk like that. That's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59595	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59596	Dear fellow Lucic, I always try to weigh the words I speak especially in this respected House, and I did not say that we finished Chapter 11, 12, 13 but expert negotiating teams for the former governments. It would take me a lot more than two minutes to specify everything that is problematic or poorly negotiated, even though it has been significantly good things that have been negotiated, but also if you already tell your colleagues and if you think you know a lot more then you need to know that it was programmed in 2008 and that in 2010 you already had enough time to contract the number of projects, spend them and withdraw them into the 10th and 11th money you had at your disposal. Linearly, for all years, you have set up negotiations according to the projected, projected 25-26m euros. Do I need to talk about the exact amount that was withdrawn in 2010, 2011. I'll say cumulatively 50 million euros you lost in those two years. Even 25 million euros have not been used in two years, 125 million has been used in 2012 since 195, this year all 195 will be used 100%. Why? Because the paying agency is doing what needs to be done by the Rural Development Resort Administration, the EU and international co-operation are doing right, which the institutions are doing much better than before, all these agencies and everything else. When you talk about the results of the Croatian forests, 60 or 80 million kunas you have to say within a year or talk about a ten-year period. When you talk about the excellent work of the administration, we want those who have had excellent cooperation with FIMI-media. The former management was as a witness and the way the money was drawn from the FIMI media was a responsibility The then administrations of Croatian forests process of restructuring, consolidation, reorganisation of Croatian forests, ten-year contracts with wood growers who have never been in the Republic of Croatia to protect the very important wood processing sector and important export components of our economy have been signed for these governments since I was minister after a few months of negotiations. [[Invader Batinić: A colleague please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59597	Thank you, Minister. I'd like to ask you to refrain. [[Thank you.]] Let's not let my friend Lucich out of the bench. On behalf of SDP representative Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59598	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have already heard the basic reason for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service is the unification of the Forest Advisory Service with the existing Agricultural Advisory Service. As from 1 January 2014, a six-year period of implementation of rural development measures to be financed from the European Rural Development Fund by amendments to that law is beginning to create a better quality legal assumption for the more efficient provision of basic and specific consulting services and professional assistance to farmers, fishermen and forest owners. The Agricultural Advisory Service in the Republic of Croatia was founded in 1991 at the Agricultural Centre of Croatia and it operates from 1994 to 1996 as a separate sector at the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government Regulation of 1996 established the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, which operates until the end of 2009 when amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber of the Service are attached to that institution as a public Agricultural Advisory Service. With new status changes and enrolment in the register of agricultural advisory services since 1 June 2012 it has been acting as a specialised public institution for the performance of agricultural advisory activities in agriculture, rural development and fisheries. By law on the Agricultural Advisory Service in May 2012, the service acts as an independent public specialised institution with two public powers in agriculture based on the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service. The service of which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders of the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs, has the property of a legal person with the rights and obligations laid down in the Law on Agricultural Advisory, the Law on Institutions, special laws and the Statute of the Service. The funds for the work of the service shall be made available from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia by carrying out their activities in other sources in a manner and under the terms and conditions of the prescribed law and the statute of service. Currently, service provides its users free of charge. The activities are organized and carried out in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia or in the headquarters of Zagreb and 112 offices of the field exposition. On December 31st, 2012, 231 employees were employed in the service, of which 4 doctors of science, 27 master of science, 195 high-skilled staff, 4 more professional staff and only 1 mid-skiller. The day-to-day staff shall also carry out specialised tasks requiring the day-to-day visit of users in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The forest advisory service was established by the Government Regulation in 2006, and already in 2010 the Law amending the Law on the Forests this service belongs to the Commercial Society of the Croatian Forests. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Advisory Service 9 forest owners in the Directorate of the Croatian Forests, and 20 professional associates in the branches of the forest management, so a total of 29 employees will become an integral part of the Agricultural Advisory Services as a private sector. The educational structure in the agriculture, food and forestry sectors is weak. The indicators of agricultural education at the level of the agricultural population are very unfavourable that it has a direct negative impact on the development and improvement of agriculture and Croatian villages. Without any agricultural education is 98% of the agricultural population. The completed course is 0.25%, secondary education 1.25%, while higher and higher education has only 0.4% of the agricultural population. According to EUROSTAT 2010 data, the share of farmers with primary and full agricultural education in the Republic of Croatia was 5% while the EU figure was 29.5%. The share of farmers with primary and full agricultural education under 35 in the Republic of Croatia is 11.7% while for the EU it is 31.5%. At a low level of education, it is indirectly related to the poor use of information technologies and poor integration, the research system with the economy. For reasons of ignorance, an outdated technology resulting in less productivity, economic sustainability and a harmful environmental impact is applied. In the conditions of growing specialisation in agriculture, food production and forestry, it is important that people involved in these sectors have the assistance of qualified economic experts in the area of the use of new technologies, responsible management of natural resources, as well as mitigation and adaptation to climate change. The most important forms of knowledge transfer and innovation in agriculture, forestry and rural development are advisory services. The establishment of a advisory system helps farmers, forest owners and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in rural areas to improve sustainable management and overall efficiency of their work. There is a well-developed public and professional agricultural advisory service in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the individual, group and media consultation of the agricultural holding on technological, technical measures in plant or animal production, the agricultural, advisory service also participates significantly in the implementation of national support in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. This has been particularly evident in the past two years when the regional offices of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development have been abolished. For example, in 2013, as many as 21 thousand 650 farms requested assistance from the advisory services when submitting a single electronic request for national support in agriculture. Since 2014, the advisory service should also assist agricultural economies in the use of European support for rural development. The development of knowledge and innovation-based agricultural production is one of the key factors of social and economic development. Advisory services will help create knowledge bases in rural areas which are a prerequisite for promoting innovation. More training contributes to better labour productivity and thus to greater competitiveness of the economy. Higher levels of education and enhanced professional activities of all participants will lead to the restructuring and modernisation of those sectors. The aim is to create an entrepreneurial spirit of agricultural economies through innovative, precise-oriented activities, simpler and more efficient diversification of the agricultural sector, which will result in the creation of new small businesses and, indirectly, new jobs. The adoption of the Republic of Croatia in full membership of the European Union before advisory bodies has made new requests. Reduce the use of pesticides in accordance with the national action plan, soil and water protection, the implementation of agricultural environmental measures, the increase in productivity and the efficiency of agriculture, the introduction of new technologies, the reduction of air pollution and climate change mitigation. Improving soil structure and quality, using natural fertilisers and reducing the use of plant protection and mineral fertilisers is necessary to protect soil and water. In this respect, advisory services will enable farmers and forest owners to comply with all the obligations they have made by including specific payment schemes: organic, integrated production, agro environment on payment and the like. As well as the introduction of special techniques in the forest sector. The practice of self-exploitation, deforestation, is conditioned by a well-limited possibility for forest owners to engage licensed companies in forest work at favourable prices. It is mainly prepared from forests privately owned and used by heating wood, which leads to devastation of forests. Private forests have about 680 thousand hectares while the state-run forests of Croatia have about 2 million hectares. Private forests are depreciated and have about 600,000 owners, many of whom do not even know where their forests are located and are often cut off without supervision. It is therefore one of the objectives of the Law amending the Law on the Advisory Service to improve education and training of forest owners as well as micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from the forestry sector for the professional and safe work on the postulates of effective application of 5E principles, energy, ecological, economic, ergonomic, aesthetically efficient forest work. It is necessary to apply to activities related not only to the exploitation of forests but also to works related to the cultivation and protection of forests, which is also one of the important preconditions for the development of competitive and fully acceptable forestry in rural areas. The main objective of the Law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service is to increase the expertise, productivity and efficiency of farmers, young farmers, forest owners, land managers with adaptation and mitigation of climate change and environmental protection. Because of the very character of agricultural production, which is dependent on external influences, effective risk management is of great importance to farmers. Advisory services will help farmers to address the most common types of risks faced by adverse climate opportunities, animal and plant diseases, pests, and in the case of environmental incidents, as well as income stabilizations for farmers facing a major fall in income. Common market developments require agricultural producers to know and train in the promotion and demand of their products. A particular emphasis will be placed on advocacy on agro-environmental payments, establishment, conservation, biodiversity enriching, integration of Natura 2000 and high natural value areas. The activities and advisory services will also help achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive in order to protect water and soil from the negative effects of agriculture, in particular in areas that have been specifically declared areas of great importance. Advisory services will help effectively use energy while reducing greenhouse gas and ammonia emissions, improving air quality and using renewable energy. It will also raise various knowledge and skills, local action groups in the management of partnerships and the implementation of the leadership approach as well as the diversification of the economy, as well as on how entrepreneurship is promoted to create new jobs as an important prerequisite for local development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59599	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59600	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'd just like to, I'd like to add something about when you were talking about the education of farmers. I agree with you, of course they need to be more educated, but I disagree with this data. Namely, education and the compulsory education of farmers so that they could exercise the right to any subsidies or incentives began in the distant year 2008 or 2007, I don't know you exactly, but since I worked in the Zagreb City Agriculture and Forestry Office, I know well when it started and in what way. And the schools were opening up, and the mahogany was laid by the young means of the manufacturers. I'm not going to list now means all sectors that were, but here's beekeeping, fruit growing, herbs growing, dairy, etc. This means that it won't just happen and find hot water, this very education has been discovered, the problem is our complete problem is that agriculture deals with nursing households and, of course, that kind of structure you've read was once, the structure has changed significantly. And allow a fellow respected to read to you next. The significant funds of the EFARD Fund will be available in 2014, and information and preparation of agricultural producers and local self-government employees is crucial for its use. In this process, the Agricultural Advisory Service will play a key role, you wrote this here and by amending the law, thus creating a better quality legal assumption for the more efficient provision of basic and special consulting services and professional support to farmers, fishermen and forest owners. That's the point. That's why we're looking for a colleague to call this a farm advisory service because you're a great judge of what's real and you've shown and written what that means. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59601	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59602	Here's my esteemed colleague, I've brought out the data I've given relatively fresh. These are from 2010, so a very negative structure of the qualifications of our population where a advisory service is absolutely necessary. As for the name itself, we heard it from the minister, and I think it's quite acceptable. There are advisory services here for both forestry and fishing, so I think this name makes sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59603	Thank you. Igor Czech, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59604	Thank you. In your discussion, you have actually devoted a good part of the debate to the story of how the low educational structure of agricultural producers is and can agree with you in this regard, but we are aware lately that more and more agricultural producers are being educated and they have realized that lifelong education and can contribute to the development of their OPG. However, the fact is that a good part of these agricultural producers are neither informational written or lack of information and may not be found in those names or names. Well, that's why I'm here to support my colleague, twilight, not diminishing the importance of the forest advisory service. That is why it should remain the name Agricultural Advisory Service, because you now imagine a farmer who is 55-60 and comes to some kind of state administration office, some kind of building and looks at the door, writes the advisory service. Do you knock on that door or not knock? To write the Agricultural Advisory Service, he will certainly knock. And also, if you look at the Internet, it's written only by the Ministry of Agriculture, so it doesn't have a full name. Then the Ministry of Agriculture can only be called the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59605	Thank you. There's no answer. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59606	Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, ministers in reserve, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, with a final proposal. The colleagues who have taken part in the debate have said a lot, and I think these interventions to this law that we passed in early 2012 are essentially about the advisory forest service that needs to come into the system of the Agricultural Advisory Service. Normally, all these interventions in the existing law primarily aim to increase the efficiency of the Agricultural Advisory Service because the advisory service is one of the most important levers of agricultural policy implementation in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it is one transfer of knowledge towards farmers and I think that the trends and trends of the ministry headed by Minister Jakovina have a good direction and wants to have a significant impact on agricultural flows in this way on quality and strong advisory services. What is also important is that in 2014 a colleague named Đurdjica mentioned significant funds from the EFARD. For these reasons, we should have an effective system with the advisory service that will withdraw significant financial resources, which will make agricultural production more efficient. What is important is that within the advisory service we have special departments dealing with certain activities in agricultural production, agriculture, forestry, fishing production, and I think that there is a particularly significant rural area here because the European Union has significant resources from its structural funds that would be really bad for the Republic of Croatia that we do not use these funds to a significant extent. What is the subject of amending the Law on the Advisory Service is certainly the introduction of an advisory forest service into the agricultural service. In 2006, the Forest Advisory Service was established for a reason and thanks to the excellent work of the forest profession in the Republic of Croatia we cannot say that our forests are devastated, that our forests are not quality, that they are not managed. But it is an even greater obligation to continue, in the same way, with such protection and use and management of this extraordinary, significant potential. What is also important is that in terms of forest coverage in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is far above the EU average of forest coverage, which enables a better quality of life in the Republic of Croatia. What is important is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia founded the Croatian Forests, a limited-responsibility society that has concerns about mastering state forests and such forests are in the Republic of Croatia over 70%. What is important to note is that in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia private forest owners are small. Let's say the northern part of the Republic of Croatia Zagorje and that part there we have a large number of small forest owners, and here we have the situation mentioned by colleagues Lucic and fellow Moharic that these are small properties and that they are basically management of such areas and is not good. What was a daunting circumstance at the time while the advisory forest service was within the Croatian forests was more relevant to that part of which was related to social property or to social forests, so that the small forest owners were not sufficiently represented. What we in the Croatian People's Party consider to be a good move from the Ministry of Agriculture, to unite all advisory services and to act under one hat. Why are we talking? Because that time we have a synergy of different professions, because in all project writings, you never have projects where only one title or one profession will be done. So let's say that in these parts of the rural area that is by the Adriatic Sea. So this is where we have fishing, rural forest space. We can generally come together in a good way because I say this diversity will certainly come well to the Republic of Croatia, and certainly also to the advisory service and users who will use projects to withdraw funds from the EU. What is important to note is that, compared to the original law in 2012, there has been an amendment to the Governing Council, that we have a president and three members and that it is appointed director. Here, as a Croatian People's Party club and through our representative, we are also proposing that, with three titles, the agronomic, veterinary, forestry profession be introduced this profession from the fishing high calling. We think that's okay. The Croatian People's Party club will support this law because it wants and contributes to making the advisory service on the ground stronger, better quality. What we also believe in the Croatian People's Party is that the number of staff in the Advisory Service should go towards that dynamic. We believe that it is not a sufficient number, because we believe that in the time ahead that there will be demands from family economies or from agricultural economies, it will be increased according to the Advisory Service, and for these reasons we believe that quality personnel will make a significant contribution to the promotion of both the Strategy of Agriculture and the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian People's Party club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59607	Thank you, too. And we're moving on to an individual debate. Peter Baranovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, his esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Briefly comment on some things that may have been said today during, or tonight during this debate. But first, to realize that this change was necessary. This change was necessary not only because someone prescribed the legal gains of the EU, as a HDSB colleague said during his debate, this service has a long tradition and is no new invention. But the fact was really illogical that in one part you have an area of counselling in agriculture and fisheries, and that, on the other hand, counselling when it comes to forest activity is under the authority of a company which has no authority over all forest areas but the masters of those forests owned by the Republic of Croatia. However, what is most important is to hit and realise the fundamental ambition of the legislator of this law, which is that the Agricultural Advisory Service accepts a great burden and great responsibility in the coming period. The fact is that this service has so far had results that could have been discussed in different ways and in different sub-domains it had better or worse, more or less visible, but what awaits a complete agro system in the Republic of Croatia is the task of withdrawing and using funds from EU funds. Taking into account the fact presented during tonight's debate on the disastrously poor educational structure of Croatian farmers, people who are the bearers of agricultural production, people who should be the primary beneficiaries of these funds, people who, without these funds and the final reform of the Croatian agricultural system, will not be able to survive, then it is quite clear that the Agricultural Advisory Service, i.e. the Advisory Service, is waiting for a huge task in the future. It is hard to expect that people who are owners of agricultural economies with such an educational structure as we have, with such a level of education, professional education can prepare projects without assistance, and also knowing what kind of financial status they have been in for years is difficult to expect that they can pay just about everyone and in every respect of intellectual services at those prices offered on the market by professional consultants and project managers. Thus, putting that burden is not an easy task for future service, but it is necessary. And it's absolutely right that the Ministry of Agriculture has been making changes this way when it comes to the task of the Agricultural Advisory Service. It was during the debate and crying over the fate of the Croatian forests, there was a comment on the results of the business that they were very likely to be something different from the previous years because the previous years of Croatian forests had one very significant income in a much larger amount which was not achieved by the basis of their great ability, the ability to manage nor the business results, but it was a parafiscal charge which may be one of the most uneducated parafiscal purposes in the system at all known as such OkFŠ so-called. The wage paid by the people in the economy, which is reduced by 50%, which is how much I remember the numbers of the economy being disbursed by 250 million kuna, and thus Croatian forests have reduced their income by 250 million kuna. Therefore, the basis of this fact is not realistically possible for business results to be the same. There was also talk about which the government negotiated and negotiated, which the political party was responsible for the negotiations that negotiated... some personal experience of people who prepared the negotiating positions was primarily based on their expertise, and the basis of their personal experience can testify that we were not all HDZ because I can be classified in many categories of life but cannot be classified as HDZ or even HDZ sympathisers. So the profession was negotiating. Government of the Republic of Croatia engaged, not any HDZ Government. At least I think that no party has the ambition to rise above the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of all its citizens who have clearly specified tasks in the Croatian Constitution and Croatian laws. The quality of the bargained to say a lot of things, so I'd be very glad if the same colleagues who were drilling into their chests tonight for their political merits when we next discuss the walk to get out and say that we are ladies and gentlemen guilty of it. Or we're to blame for some other things that come out and out too, but no one rational and responsible in that forest will demand perfection because perfection doesn't exist. But at least let's be correct. What I did in this law through a short amendment to Mr. Minister and his team was a matter of principle, since this service in its future work covers everything in the area and agriculture and veterinary and forestry and fisheries. I was free as a representative in the Croatian Parliament but also as a representative of all colleagues in the fishing sector of principle, to propose an amendment that the future director of the Advisory Service may be one who has adequate references in the area of agriculture, veterinary, forestry and fisheries. There is absolutely no reason for one responsible minister to respect the principles and accept the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59609	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Miss Sumrak, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the end, Mr Baranovic will collect the results, and we probably won't wait long. As for the negotiators on the negotiating team, of course they were professional people, they were also party, the minister himself was a party man. But look at Mr. Baranovic, unfortunately of these professional people, they've all been expelled from the ministry. Well, then you see, you're talking about the walk, about the teran, it took a little more trouble to come to an end. But don't talk about exporting pork and beef, you don't say that. And then don't talk about any more things, I'll tell you that in the next debate, about the schlamper that's happening in the current Ministry of Agriculture. And then let me tell you about OKFSH, it's a parafiscal imposition, yes. And for the first time, I mean, I mean, I don't know, 2010 as far as I know. And, you know, it's not a meaningless imposition. OKFŠ serves to edit forest fire roads, these funds are spent on demining, and then it has other purposes. So it's not nonsense and some horrible parafiscal load that's horrible, useless and just for taking money, it's not. And then I would join, agree to be, and the fisherman can be the same director. Sure, I'm glad, but I'd be willing to be a beekeeper. Because we have highly educated beekeepers, schools and beekeeping academys out there. Well, please, I will join this application by Mr Baranovic that our beekeeping sector, which has long been prepared for EU accession, has national strategies and almost before everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59611	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that you are in favour of certain principles when it comes to staffing all public enterprises, institutions in Croatian society. I am personally a supporter of such a policy and also at a local level where we have been directly responsible for certain moves we have even shown in principle that this can be done, this colleague who sits behind you knows, so her party colleagues thus received trust for our mandate on the basis of the results achieved and thank God that so, however, we have lost the elections and, behold, your party has come, so moral, so correct, all the most successful directors have been confused overnight. People who have criminal charges have been brought in, who have been convicted and that is what counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev knows. And otherwise, for your term in Sibenik, you can't even become a Scottish. It's an honorable occupation of Scots who so beautifully embodyed their own in the image of the famous Joza, you can't even be a man who does this hard and honorable work if you're not a member of the HDZ. As for the issues of this parafiscal imposition, I did not quite notice that the great situation in the part in which Croatian forests were once held responsible when it comes to spending these funds. And as for the clumper in the ministries and the leadership of this country, you'll be dealing with the schlamper tonight, perhaps, of this ministry, but with the schlamper of the way and the leadership of your party deals with the institution of justice, that's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59613	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59614	You say a colleague, and in the debate, you mention it to these institutions, that their work will be done because your colleague tells you that in the end the results will come together and talk about the schlamper. I'm just the process of how they ran the ministry and the whole state and what policy it was you wouldn't call a schlamperaum but it was a well-developed modus operandi the purpose of the government was to steal and nothing else. Whatever it is, let's look at it, whatever it is, you never know how long it's gonna take, you don't know how much it's gonna cost, all you know is who's gonna do it. Therefore, defend today at this time and precisely from the resolution ministry when the resolute minister, former Cobankovic, admits the guilt, when the prime minister who set it there and whose jobs he worked for there is appropriate. Here people resist to defend how wonderful and beautiful it was. So don't do it. So you see that your male colleagues have fled and have left you women to defend you indefensibly. Don't do that. And what seems to me, which is very valuable, is that we turn to the future and our work and we never warn about this, we do not deal with the past but they do call. So you have to get what you want, you want it yourself, so what's wrong with you? They're more of a method, they enjoy it. So, something that set should be ashamed of they're potentialing, we want ahead and they're pulling back. Like this, what does my colleague Baranovic say? I think that's something, you say a colleague to tell you directly, it's something that this ministry is and you're especially potential to attract these funds, to a greater extent, which is done by the advisory service, and I think that's an example of how the rest of our ministries work. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm taking this opportunity to warn them about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59615	Thank you. We don't have an answer. Minister, here you go. Patience a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59616	Thank you, dear Vice President. I will try really hard to be brief, thank all my colleagues and colleagues for a good debate and not to be commended but to suggest a reform part of the job with the advisory service, perhaps I have remained a little bit of a bit of a concern or a strange concern for the Croatian forest. In the Croatian forests on 31.9.2013, it was employed whether in a permanent working relationship or on a certain 8 thousand 450 employees, of which 1440 colleagues are highly trained, with a higher professional training of 221, for responsible management and management of Croatian forests, you do not really have to worry. You've had opportunities in two mandates before and how well you've done once again I will repeat the speeches and work of the administration of the former who are more witnesses in your former prime minister's court proceedings than they really did in quality. When we talk about OKFŠ, he would disagree with counterpart Baranovic, which is unnecessary, it is a parafiscal imposition. The question was actually real about how to use and responsibility for the funds spent in the way that the collective month, month and a half before the parliamentary elections increased, when you bought elections and tied up in the forestry sector of people who did because you gave 70 million kunas of new material rights through a new collective contract. This does not consume the OCFŠ while this administration is less rational and more responsible OkFŠ is spent to the knowledge of the lip in accordance with what is from the biological restoration of the forest, than the fire-fired demining that is spent significantly more millions than in your governments and remains. And I have to correct my colleague Baranovic, the business results of this administration and the Croatian Forests are now much better with less income than for former governments and former administrations. I think a respected colleague of the twilight with whom I always like to argue this argument made an observation about the descriptive part of the law or the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated by the law why is the agricultural advisory service standing? Because it's an existing law we refer to. I'm not a lawyer, but neither are you. Well, then we shouldn't doubt what professional services do, people who have been doing those regulations for years. We'll probably do it in the next law at least you've announced, you've got a sharper discussion, I'm ready for it, but I'll tell you right away from the system of almost 2005 people with agencies, advisory services, and the rest of them I've come with 20 people, all the other people haven't disappeared, they haven't invented. Those who were trash, who were irresponsible, who were at the crime line, who went their own free will, were out of the ministry. They worked on jobs not on those jobs that your government and your former minister and team may have placed in very high positions still. They ran the sectors, they ran the services, but they weren't up to it. They're not de facto thrown out as you say or go, so don't worry about my ministry. Maybe you better analyze the work of the previous ministries of your governments. Once again, I would like to thank you for the good suggestions for this law and make sure that the basic urgency is to return the forest advisory service first to the importance that it should have and to determine the jobs to be given to private owners of forest land or forest owners, and, on the other hand, to provide good transport good assistance, good advisory services to all farmers, all fishermen, all farmers, all forest owners in that part of the preparation of consulting work on the preparation of projects, to prepare economic programmes for the withdrawal of significant funds that we will have in the Rural Development Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59617	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica. Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59618	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, you're insisting on something that's coming back to the past. They're warning you and your people, don't, I know you have a deal and you're going to put everything on Sanader now, on those who are in prison. Remember, Bajic will knock on your door. And your pharmacy. I don't mean your ministers, here, not here in the Parliament beyond that. But your herbal pharmacy isn't exactly settled by law either. You see, for example. Some 500m HZ railways have been bought for DIOKI, so check it out right there is the minister of the administration you see little Kalistan company check it out a little bit. You see, Bajic, before the parliamentary elections, will knock on the door of many from this Kukuriku coalition because they have a lot of material and there are more. But I'm going back to the minister's profession. I don't care. I wasn't involved in the thefts, nor are we sitting here and neither do you, nor support. Those who did this sit in prison and sit down for a warning to everyone. Those who have been professional in all ministries should continue to be professional. I'm not saying that they have to be your deputies because it's your team okay, but you've humiliated professional people at the Ministry of Agriculture to the point where you were the highest in the negotiating teams literally, you know you don't have to tell someone march out, but you can put it under the gentleman who copys. And that's it, Mr. Minister. That's the problem. I know you don't have much experience and I don't blame you. I personally have nothing against you, and neither do we who sit here but But we do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59619	Time. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't realize the first part, and I don't think we talked here as colleagues if I wasn't in the executive office, if I wasn't a minister, I'd sit on this side and replicated you I don't understand these attacks if I should be worried. Are these threats or do you have any specific information or connection to those services that either to the DORH or do I not know who they're knocking on the door with? Be assured that even if such things are there will be much, much less knocking than what is being knocked on your party or all over the party for what you've been doing. And when I speak, I didn't mention the party again, I didn't even mention the names. I spoke and we saw this in contributions to information shows that some members of the former Administration of the Croatian Forests have admitted to washing millions of kunas from Croatian forests through FIMI Media and other money laundering channels. I didn't make up anything else. It's a process that's under way, and I didn't initiate them or knock on the door. When you talk about expertise, when you talk about these political shifts or the degradation of professional people, then please state your name and last name and I will give you an explanation and an answer for each one. I can list at least 10 people who are right-wing political profile in the ministry who are now at the level of sector chief, chief of service or even some who have stayed in the same positions as they were, so they are my assistants. So it's not what you're saying that you're trying to discredit the work of this ministry. Red, work and responsibility is what I am looking for and what I will do while running this extremely responsible ministry and an important Croatian economy ministry. There'll be no riots, there won't be so much crime, there won't be so many favors, there won't be so much... from agricultural land to all the other things you've done in concessions in quotas in everything else you want me to explain to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59621	Thank you. Peter Baranovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. For the sake of precision, I have no doubt about the quality of management of the Croatian forests today, and for this reason alone, I have answered the replica to clarify this. Maybe you misunderstood me and maybe you caught some comments about my discussion that were slightly modified in a different direction. As far as the nature and this parafiscal intrusion is concerned, what I found in my debate is exclusively the fact that we reduced it by 50% and thus relieved the Croatian economy. And I have no doubt that with responsible management he can do so much with perhaps even better results than before. Since these funds were sometimes held in double amount by gentlemen who are currently engaged in other activities than professional activities, the status of witnesses or perhaps potentially something else but would not want to prejudge or deal with the affairs of the institution of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59623	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59624	I thank my esteemed colleague Baranovic. I only understood you once again, and I wanted to explain the story about OKFŠ and you said it yourself was twice as big, we took off 50% to relieve and help the Croatian economy, but with these means we also went out in the past and in this year a larger and more significant amount of demining, which this year seems to me to be 30 million kuna, but rather than ever, have almost 48 thousand hectares of Croatian forests are still mined or mined areas and Croatian forests can't have quality management with wood mass and manage these forests. That's why we're still going to invest. We are doing projections, and it is likely that this parafiscal imposition will experience more modulation and more specific redundancies for the economy sector. But what is collected up to the last June will be spent on purpose, spent on responsibility, and for that we will have strengthened to the last June in which, both way and what is spent. All the other results are actually mathematics. Mathematics is an exact science and it gives very simple success to the work of a particular company, a particular company, a particular ministry. From the use of funds, from the way we operate if we talk about the advisory part and we said that we are going, by re-imaging or making a model of management, modern advisory services of the advanced agricultural countries of Europe where this is the number of contracts, the number of tips given on each economy where the impact is seen in increasing production, whether in ratareous production, in livestock production or in any segment of production in the ultimate increase in income, i.e. increasing production itself. And that's how this advisory service is going to work, and that's why we've been going through these changes. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59625	And Damir Tomic's replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59626	Hello, Vice President. Dear Minister, today you have pointed out the order, the work and the responsibility several times. And we are talking about Croatian forests and today we have mentioned one, us in Croatia dear animal, bear living in certain parts of Croatian forests. And why is the opposition, especially HDZ, particularly afraid of order, work and responsibility? It's because of the bears we might find in their basements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59627	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59628	Final draft law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 515, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and MP Petar Baranovic. I ask Deputy Minister of Agriculture Snježan Spain to declare the amendments submitted. First, amend the HDZ Representatives Club. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59630	I'd like a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59631	The amendment is not accepted because Article 1 is defined as changing the name of the Agricultural Advisory Service to be read by the Advisory Service. Such a name corresponds to a wide range of professional areas in which the institution operates. It is also an expression that has long been addressed in everyday speech, simple and universal. Namely, no institution in the Republic of Croatia has a complex in its name so that it cannot be talked about indeterminateness and unrecognizableness.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59632	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Comrade Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59633	Thank you very much. Of course, we're not satisfied with this explanation. I'll say our understanding and explanation of the amendment. In particular, the extension of the agricultural advisory service to the improvement of forest management and forest land of forest owners cannot be a reason to change the name of the services in the Advisory Service, does not define the scope of the activities and the part-time advisory service, and is completely undefined and unrecognizable, and in particular given that the area of forestry is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and this advisory service. Please let us vote on our amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59634	Who is one of the HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept for amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment two to Article two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59635	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59636	A brief explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59637	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59638	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club colleague Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59639	So if I don't repeat our arguments now, I'm going to appeal to this first because it's worth all three amendments and we're asking for a vote on the amendment. And I just have to say, I'm sorry, I have so much time, this amendment depends on our accepting or not accepting the whole law. Since you don't want to accept it, we'll be against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59640	I understand. Who is the amendment of two HDZ representatives that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 3 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59641	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59642	Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59643	Same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59644	Same reason. Okay. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the same thing. Are you asking for a vote? Who's for amendment three the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. We're moving on to Peter Baranovic's amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59645	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59646	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm giving the vote final, thank you, deputy. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed with 76 votes for, 11 against and 7 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59647	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Consistents of the Veterinary Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 512; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Minister Jakovina is with us as well. Minister, intro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59648	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. Veterinary Act, National Journal No. 82/2013. It entered into force on 1 July 2013. The Veterinary Act is a roof law in the veterinary field governing animal health protection measures to be implemented to ensure the breeding and production of healthy animals, hygiene and health products of animal origin, the protection of people from zoonoses, and the protection of animal welfare and veterinary protection of the environment. In addition, the animal registration process and the improvement of animal reproduction, the implementation of veterinary public health measures, the treatment of the introduction of consignments of animals and products of animal origin. Furthermore, the system of implementation of veterinary activities carried out by veterinarians, veterinary stations, veterinary hospitals, veterinary clinics, reproductive and artificial collection centres, as well as veterinary medicinal products, official controls and veterinary inspection in which the provisions of national legislation and legislation of the European Union are intertwined. The legislation of the European Union in the veterinary field is one of the most comprehensive and complex areas covered by a number of legal and binding acts of the European Union. The most important issues to be covered by these amendments and the additions to the laws are: the jurisdiction of the official customs administration in the introduction of non-animal animal feed consignments subject to inspection before cross-border crossings at which no border veterinary stations are located and which have been operated by border veterinary inspectors, which has been prescribed only for consignments of up to five pets and in the case of the introduction of consignments of animals and products of animal origin via the Neumese Corridor. In addition, the competence of the sanitary inspectors for the implementation of the EC Regulation shall be governed. 1069%2009 and EU Commission Regulation No 142/2011 in the part relating to retail facilities in which animal by-products are produced which are not intended for human consumption and derived products. This law lays down the grounds for the adoption of an order which may order or prohibit the conduct of measures to prevent and combat animal diseases, or to prohibit the introduction of consignments of animals and products of animal origin in the event of an infectious animal disease in a particular country, in order to protect human and animal health. It may, and is the basis for the adoption of a guide to prescribe the way legal persons with the public authority of veterinary organisations, veterinary clinics and cells, veterinary practices and veterinary services work. In the implementation of measures to detect, monitor, prevent, appear and spread, control of control of the control of the control of the control of the disease of zoonose animals. The adoption of this law and the adoption of the law itself also conditioned the need for clearer and more precise regulation of certain provisions of the Veterinary Act or the correction of its provisions. The implementation of the law does not require additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. I propose to this House to support, to adopt these amendments and to supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59649	I thank you, too, Minister. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59650	Well, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues who are here. Here, as usual, what always at the beginning of these late debates, no matter what, I would like to thank the Minister for being here with us because then to the whole of our debate, of course with the co-worker, when it comes to veterinary giving one special one, I would say that our debate, unlike some ministers who don't really show up. Well, before I start, let me just have a few words. Recently, veterinary days were held in Opatija. Let me read you just some of the fractions and lectures held by the president of the Croatian Veterinary Chamber and colleagues.... So, by entering the European Union, Croatia has become its single market with 500 million inhabitants with 4 fundamental freedoms: freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital. The European Union has 13.7 million economies that hold animals with an annual value of 149 billion euros. There are 2 billion poultry in farming and production, 334 million mammals involving cattle, pigs, sheep and goats, but there is also a need to add aquaculture animals, pets, sports animals and other animals. And here we are from 1.7. Croatia joined the market with its 4.5 million inhabitants, 475 000 cattle, 36 000 holdings, with some 1.6 million pigs and 700,000 sheep and goats, or 22 000 hooves and 50 million poultry. The European Union is also a sequence of state policy that veterinarians, as well as members of other professions, must follow, some more in the scope of something, and some in some smaller scope. Chapter 12. The safety of food, veterinary and phytosanitary policies by quantitative means, let's call it that the scope of the acquis exceeds all the chapters that were the subject of the negotiations. Food is, of course, the basis of everything, an area of food of animal origin that must meet certain standards in inter-state agreements between Member States of the European Union, with regard to the breeding of animals where all measures must be implemented to prevent the spread, spread, eradication of infectious diseases. It is also a very similar story with finished food and in terms of animal slaughter, animal food production, transport storage, sales and other activities that the area requires. During the pre-accession negotiations, the Veterinary Authority has done a very large job. Over 350 new regulations have been changed, four laws have been amended, but also in the end veterinarians, practitioners, those who should thank each time for everything, it remains to be implemented on the ground and to do all the legislation mentioned. To carry out veterinary checks on holdings I think it is important to mention, a farm register was established which was a fundamental prerequisite for establishing a functional identification system, an animal registration which was also one of the criteria for closing Chapter 12. In addition to the control of the traffic of animals directly in the function of combating illegal traffic and the grey economy, veterinary examination of holdings is a product and tool whose application results in measurable effects and in the sense of consulting animal owners on the obligations arising from complex veterinary regulations, and in particular the user of support in agriculture on their obligations arising from the 14 veterinary regulations set out in Appendix 2 to Regulation 732009 of the EU, or the requirements of the rules relating to the achievement of multiple compliance and the improvement of the knowledge and ability of all persons responsible for animal welfare. About 70% of the requirements regarding multiple compliance arise from veterinary regulations, 14 regulations concerning the mandatory notification of infectious animal diseases, animal identification and registration rules, animal welfare rules, animal food regulations, and the prohibition of the use of hormones in animal production and which have already been transposed into Croatian legislation. This is just the part I wanted to read to you. I hope you understand most of it or not, irrelevantly, but in one part you understand the role of veterinarians not only on the ground but also on the importance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Administration. And because of that in our last debate, I'm going to go back a little bit to it, Mr. Minister, it's not good when we keep going back to the past, I would now and I'm very proud of this past veterinary administration. And when we tell you something here in the debate don't take it personally, figure it out in a way that we want to improve, figure it out in a way that we listen to what people at the base say. This is where I say it's not just about our party people, it's about farmers who need you, who think they can get to you through us. This law is before us, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act, with the final proposal for a law. This is what we were having this debate about how many months ago, four months ago, the 1.7 law came into force, what can I say? I will never say against my profession, of course all those who have sinned against you should pay for it. Everyone you talked about in the former discussion is sitting in prison and I don't even feel sorry for them, even though they came from which parties. I think it's only fair that everyone, everyone who stole to end up in prison. I think it's unfair and I'll argue that people who work in ministries, agencies, agricultural advisory and other services work there because of their expertise and because they have proven themselves in their expertise, so both the mayors and some of the chiefs have actually won these elections because they have shown that they can work and that they can be from our HDZ party or from your Kukuriku coalition. This can simply be called in front of us to correct a schlamper. That's what I told you before. Of course you can't understand this. Someone made a mistake. I have to say it's a lot to say. What's the point, you guys, when you were reading, you started at the back, but I just want to say it. In the event of outbreak of infectious animal diseases, the Minister may order or prohibit the conduct of measures in order to prevent and control animal diseases, or to prohibit the introduction of consignments of animals and products of animal origin in the event of outbreak of an infectious animal disease in a particular country. Some of the infectious diseases of animals may be particularly dangerous infectious diseases or zoonoses. This means that they move on to humans, or they can be transmitted from animal to human, and they can be at risk of health and human beings. This is the most important thing to change the law for. That's the most important thing. That's really the most important thing. Your hands are tied to this moment. At this point, I don't know what you can use possibly the President of the Republic to betray someone, I don't know anything. To declare a dangerous area you can neither order nor write anything. And we will support, of course, this must be supported no matter what. And no matter what, the veterinary profession is as ready as ever. Many veterinary organisations have carried out their accreditation in accordance with the 9001 and 17025 standards and are rare EU countries that can boast of such systems. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59651	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Mario Moharic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. So, this legislative amendment to this roof veterinary law, the legislation that regulates veterinary health, we have two major amendments, and two amendments are in total. We've heard one about the minister's authority, which has not been prescribed so far. Therefore, no basis has been laid for the adoption of an order which may order or prohibit the conduct of measures to prevent animal diseases, or to prohibit the introduction of consignments of animals and products of animal origin in the event of outbreak of infectious animal diseases in a particular country, and all in order to protect animal health and human health. Therefore, this law proposes to lay down the basis of a minister for the adoption of instructions that prescribes a way of working by legal persons with public authority in the implementation of measures to detect, monitor, prevent the occurrence, spread of control, control and eradication of animal and human diseases, zoonoses. Therefore, this is what is important and another non-essential change is that it prescribes the possibility of introducing no amendments, but a new addition, the possibility of bringing in food consignments for non-animal animals subject to an examination of cross-border crossings at which no border veterinary stations are located, which has so far been prescribed only for consignments of up to five pets and in case of consignments being introduced via the Neumese Corridor. In that case, therefore, the identification examination of the consignment will be carried out by customs officers. The SDP will support this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59653	Thank you. We also have one replica. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just one brief explanation. Of course, we'll support it, too, because it has to be supported. But it's not like there's any confusion, there's a little of us. So, in all the laws on veterinary care so far, the minister had the authority. They're in this law that's just released in force. That's why I said so, so we have to adopt this now. That's all I wanted to say. I think that's why we're talking so late tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59655	Thank you. There's no answer. On behalf of the HNS club Ivica Mandic. Here you go, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59656	Mr. President, distinguished ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. It's half past 11:00, so I don't think I'm talking too much. I think speaking of this Veterinary Act, it's one of the most comprehensive laws that unites 34 regulations in itself. In fact, it is a very important law both on animal health and on human health. I would agree that this part is probably omitted by accident, because I think it is one of the most powerful tools the minister can have, that the minister can declare by a certain regulation, by order of a certain ban, withdrawal from circulation or by consumption of a particular product. I think it was an accident and we certainly support this kind of change, which is basically pure and normal for this important law to be done. What is further changing in this law, which is the question that the Republic of Croatia has since 1.7 when this law came into force that we are a member of the EU, that the number of border veterinary crossings is significantly reduced and that this bill here at certain border crossings where there are no veterinarians allows for a part of the goods, closed goods of non-animal origin to be crossed, and with the certification and with certain documents, documentation as an identification check may be carried out by customs officers. We believe that these two interventions in this very good law are certainly good and it is good that we have in Article 90 a small change in the matter of origin in pigs and slaughter because it is now current that nothing is changing, that our farmers of the family economy can, with respect for certain measures, carry out pigs and I think it is good. Only for hooves and hooves, no matter where they come from, must they carry out the slaughter in specialized slaughterhouses. The HNS club will support this law and we'll vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59657	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Cvetovic Ljiljana, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59658	Dear Vice President, dear Ministers with Associates, I am in conversation with the members of the Animal Friends Society and they have asked me to draw attention to Article 10 where I wish to delete the word of origin referred to in Article 90(1), which would allow the slaughter of animals in holdings where these animals are not farmed which I consider a bad provision. Although I believe that the slaughter of domestic animals should be legally prohibited, this should already be done in slaughterhouses that have the prescribed conditions. It is currently permitted under certain conditions to slaughter animals in holdings where animals are grown. This change would also allow the slaughter of animals in holdings where they are not reared, that is to say, that a simple person can buy a living animal and slaughter it in his household if he uses it for his own purposes. Which I believe, for the sake of minimum animal welfare, should be prohibited. If this is already allowed in households that grow animals for slaughter, I see no reason why this would be allowed for purchased animals but I see a potential possibility of abuse and endangering the minimum welfare of animals anyway. I believe that any animal that slaughters must at least be drugged before slaughter by an expert, including domestic animals. This change gives space to an even greater number of unprofessional deaths of animals. Instead of prohibiting the slaughter of animals in the household, or at least prescribing mandatory slaughter by professional staff, this amendment also wishes to allow the purchase of animals for slaughter in a household that we disagree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59659	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Hansel Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59660	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague and these friends of yours who made a certain remark I don't think they've worked out a rule that says how euthanasia or slaughter can be done on the economy now a bit of an unusual word of slaughter that all the rules for animal welfare must be respected. So animals can't be slaughtered unless they're drugged, so there's a rule that's complemented by this law. And those who gave you that remark did not properly study this part of the legislation. So, I think the proposer of this law is the Ministry, I think he went to the family economies. It's primarily for personal use, not for traffic, and I think it's a good thing that one part of the tradition that is related to these spaces and yet we've applied the part and the European gains that this is all we're doing to do by animal welfare rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59661	Thank you. We don't have an answer. And finally, you'll have to go with the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59662	Thank you, dear Vice President. Although it writes for 30 minutes on behalf of the promoter, I will try to shorten it in 3 minutes just to respond and thank you for the excellent presentation and good words for the profession, a very important profession and sector in my ministry of respected colleague Sumrak. I find that much more convenient than at the last point when we had unargumented threats to an independent institution, but good. We'll forget about it, and we'll say it was in the heat of a fight because I think I've tried to analyze it a little bit now, I guess, I'm almost on every single one or almost thinking about every law that I've been here and that I've actually had the most quality discussions with you colleagues, so I'm surprised by this little bit at the last point, but we'll say well that we've played a little bit or got carried on because I don't believe that you or your party are you that threaten institutions that you don't have control of, or maybe it's some weird precedent or announcement that should continue what happened in Vukovar. And the problem of the Veterinary Act is EU legislation in the veterinary field and you yourself have said Chapter 12. Otherwise Chapter 11, 12., 13 makes up more than 50% of the acquis that we should have harmonised by the deadline of 1.07. It's been a lot of work and these last months of the first semester of this year I've been more almost here in Parliament than I used to in my office but we've actually done everything. Is there some kind of failure? Yeah, I admit it probably is, but I'm not gonna call it a slapper because there's no harm done. If we have looked at the existing law a little bit better, and you are because you are an expert and a person who follows it, then you have seen that in Article 13, we have a basis for acting in any case that can happen in the Republic of Croatia, and also especially in Article 14, the leader has the opportunity to bring removal measures. If we are talking about a real case of the occurrence of infectious animal diseases in a particular country not in the Republic of Croatia, and I must note that the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU directly applying EU decisions prohibiting the introduction of consignments of animals and products of animal origin from a particular country as a legal obligation even to the EU. So even in the way you say a vacuum could have happened, there was actually no real danger because European Union regulations are a larger legal act or a more difficult legal act that we would have acted on. What my colleague stated, I will not particularly explain, because he said everything, Article 3, paragraph 90, is precisely prescribed by the rules on how this can be done, respecting all the positive provisions, animal welfare decisions, so it's all clear here. I thank you once again for the excellent debate, suggestions, and I am sure that this veterinary sector will continue to be one of the perms of the Ministry of Agriculture thanks to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59663	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59664	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 512. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed unanimously with 95 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59665	I thank you ministers and associates, we move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Construction and Department of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 516. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. With us is the Minister of Management, Arsen Bauk, the Ministers of Introductory Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59666	Good evening to the MPs and MPs. This law proposes the abolition of the state inspectorate and the takeover of its affairs by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, work and pension systems, agriculture and tourism. The Department of Finance shall establish the conduct of inspection operations in the field of transport, goods and services, protection and intellectual property, catering activities, prohibition and prevention of unregistered activity, illegal trade and the supervision of budgetary revenues from goods and services, including services in tourism and residence tax. In the area of the Ministry of Tourism, it is determined that inspection activities relating to quality control, conditions and how to carry out tourism activities are carried out. In the area of energy, mining, pressure equipment and consumer protection, inspection operations shall be established in the area of the Ministry of Economy. Inspectives from the field of work and protection at work shall be determined in the section of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. And in the agricultural ministry's section, it determines the conduct of inspection operations in accordance with a specific regulation on food relating to quality standards, specific food and food quality codes, the labelling of advertising and presentation or information of consumers in food, organic production and gm food and food for animals. In order to carry out inspection tasks in the Republic of Croatia, more than 40 inspections have been established, most of which operate within the framework of their central authorities responsible for the relationship in the administrative area, while six inspections, labour inspection, labour protection inspection, economic inspection, pressure inspection, mining inspection and electrical energy inspection carried out in the administrative areas of the other central authorities of the state administration. Why those six in the state inspectorate and the rest in the ministries, no one could possibly explain it. That would be a state of affairs, so we're trying to change it. In this way, with two different models of the conduct of inspection operations, a single system has been established and the authorities of the state administration have been placed in an unequal position in the performance of their work. As the exercise of inspection supervision is a basic instrument of proper application of the law and also ensures direct monitoring of the situation in a particular administrative area, inspection tasks and other tasks of the state administration in the same administrative area are necessary to unite in the same body of the state administration and therefore we propose this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59667	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of independents, Grubisic, is gone, losing the right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club Davor Bozinović, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good evening to you, Mr. Minister. Here I have also listened to your presentation and seen an explanation of the amendments to this law and at first I would return to your program 21 in which you said you would create a new public administration that would affect the entire system of administration in the Republic of Croatia. You also stressed in this programme that the most difficult task is actually reforming people employed by the state administration. From this and not only this proposal today, I can conclude two things. I'm not sure there's any elaborate reform of the administration, and in particular the comprehensive reform of the administration in the Republic of Croatia, and secondly, you're wrong when you say that the most difficult task is actually to change or reform, whatever that means for people who are employed in the state administration. Here, I'll try to tell you why. I'll remind you recently here you've defended a proposal that abolished the state statistical office, for trading pardons, and people have gone to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. When you were asked what strategy and what analysis you were doing, you did not give an answer and when you were asked directly what the results were from that state office so far, you said you were not the best address for that question. Probably even now if I asked you what the results of the State Inspectorate so far you'd have given me a similar answer because I'll remind you that about half a year ago Mr. Mimica's deputy prime minister visited the State Inspectorate and supported his reinforcements at least according to media reports. So there was one fact that there was no comprehensive reform of the administration and that it was some ad hoc moves which I think is visible from today. The inspection is a very important component of each administration and is particularly an indispensable part of the administration's reform. Based on the inspection findings, much can be concluded how the entire system improves. It's also a serious job to involve science. Science in this area has given certain solutions especially when we talk about the experiences of highly developed countries such as Japan that introduced the concept of total quality management so overall quality management and put emphasis on the quality of the services that the administration provides. Now, to get to that, you have to do an analysis. Those analyses have to be published somewhere. They need to be talked about. There's nothing here. If we haven't, you're not able to create some original solutions there's a precedent out there, there's something that others have been doing and something that's left behind as a clue in the literature. In the '60s, it was a big problem and a dissatisfaction with the provision of services in the U.S., in the '70s, a campaign to raise taxes that ended in a kind of middle-class rebellion in California that brought so-called. Proposition 13 of the '78s, which prohibits tax withdrawal, and administrators are left to find more effective and efficient solutions within the money that exists. I assume you've read about it in the book... /The speaker speaks English./... which speaks of perhaps one of the greatest reforms of the modern administration at the time of President Reagan but we can go closer, we can go to Europe and see what Margaret Thatcher did in the '80s. For example, in its reform of the administration, it came to the conclusion that there is no possibility of economic, monetary reform unless it is united with the reform of the state administration. We've spent most of the day here today with the finance minister, I've been following this debate, and I haven't seen anywhere that at the government level thinking that these moves have to be somehow tied up. What did Western practice and theory conclude? Therefore, any administrative organisation must have a clear mission, have control or feedback from the service user and must have a permanent measurement of efficiency. In that segment, the inspection is marked everywhere as a very important activity. At times, her findings served more as advice, advisory, or in some ways were the place where best practice was shared in a country. Today they are transparent organisations that publish their research on websites open to public debate because without public debate we can hardly go any further in this process that must be constant, you know. From Reagan to Obama, that reform was implemented by everyone from Thatcher and the Labourists and the conservatives came up with new solutions. This proposal shows that this is an ad hoc solution. you have given one explanation that it has equidistant the bodies of the administration but you have not said anything about the inspection business of how you see an important function of inspection in perspective. And here I think that even more responsibility is for the Ministry of Administration than other ministries, regardless of which inspections are specific depending on which activity they specialize. This primarily concerns the issue of independence of inspection work. That's one segment that I'd say here a little bit I wouldn't have worked out because it's left to regulate those inspections I assume by some kind of internal acts that will bring in the ministries. I'll remind you your colleague Mrsic was when he was asked if it didn't mean that the inspections would be less independent, he said I hope not. And that's still some indication that there's no clear analysis, no clear conclusions that have gone into this whole business. You know, we here can believe or not believe the team I would call them after all lapidal assessments that something would be cheaper, that something would be more effective, but it's not just about that. The point is to raise the level of service. And that can only be achieved if we finally see one more comprehensive document relating to the reform of the state administration. And then we'll put in a certain context the abolition of state offices or the abolition of the state inspectorate or something. I particularly stress this importance of independence of inspections. And that's where I'd like to make you a suggestion. In 2008, Obama's administration adopted the so-called a reform act reforming the inspection service. So they have inspections within the ministries and agencies about 26. However, where is the difference, where is now the job of the administration and who is considering management in the Republic of Croatia and in the context of these experiences. So in this act, they created in this law the council of the Chief Inspectors, who has 26. This council is an independent intelligence. Of course, its establishment does not require any funding, however, they are experts dealing with issues that are important for inspection work. From the status ones, from what people receive, to, for example, that the American president as head of the executive authority must notify both homes of the congress at least 30 days in advance if he changes one of the chief inspectors. There is, of course, the role of Parliament now. Because the results of the inspection are something very important, which Parliament should give its word and talk about. Especially this part when it comes to experience, I don't know, but I read in the paper that an early retirement is being made for some 50 employees of that state inspectorate, maybe it's true, maybe it's not. But that's exactly what people are at age when they can do quality, given the experience, I guess, doing jobs. That council ambushes you at least six times a year, brings some standard of professionalism and something like that. And so, Mr. Secretary of State should look like a reform of the state administration. In this particular case, the inspectorate reform. So here I am to go back to your program, I really don't think it's the most difficult task to reform people who are employed in the state administration but to reform people who are at the head of the state administration and who are actually implementing a reform of the state administration that I have not yet seen with all due respect. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59669	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS Club Marijan Skvarić. Here's your colleague, Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59670	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, as many as we are, are brave. First of all, the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration established the State Inspectorate. The State Inspectorate shall carry out inspections in the field of trade, services, catering activities and the provision of services in tourism, in the field of work, protection at work, in the field of electricity, in the field of mining and in the area of equipment under discussion. More than 40 inspections have been set up in the Republic of Croatia, most of which operate within the central authorities of the government responsible for the administrative area. And the State Inspectorate set up six inspections. And that labour inspection, labour protection inspection, economic inspection, pressure equipment inspection, mining inspection and electrical energy inspection. In this way, two different models of business management from their district are placed in an unequal position. The implementation of inspection supervision is a basic instrument of proper application of the law and also ensures direct monitoring of the situation in a particular administrative area. It is necessary to unite the inspection tasks and other tasks of the state administration in the same administrative area in the same body of the state administration. Following this proposal, the law proposes the abolition of the State Inspectorate and the takeover of their affairs. That is, the inspectorate as a separate body will no longer exist, but will move its intelligence under the roof of its ministries. And these are the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Tourism in the framework of their activities. Once we define the abolition of the State Inspectorate, we need to see what we can do to stop it. So they are being abolished first and foremost because there are five district units of the State Inspectorate that were in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Osijek and plus the central inspectorate in Zagreb. It is about 800 inspectors who will be deployed to the ministries as soon as possible depending on the area they are dealing with. The inspector is not enough anyway and above all when we look at their structure that almost 50% of the employees are over 50 years old. Now, that says they have experience, so we believe that they will be able to adapt very much to this new structure and give an even greater pain to their functions and that part. What I might mention is, to get into the problem of ending these five regional units, however, it will still have to be done well first of all that in these resolution ministries that are most often in Zagreb to be well defined. In fact, there's a question of coefficients and wages, and we hope that this part is the same guided account that, in addition to what we've said, this one doesn't have a lot of inspectors, maybe a reduction of wages or other things, so that there's a problem and the inspectorate of the state needs it in that part. And maybe just a question, writing a report, because so far we've had from the State Inspectorate a report that's been defined, and those reports really had at least a year, two years, a lot of allegations that a lot of inspection controls have been carried out. Here for 2012 alone was 76 731 inspection controls, of which was the most in the store 41% and 54% in the catering, so... we define in the future that yet certain reports can be available, that it unites at one level as it has been so far. However, in any case, the organisation of the state administration also contributes to the security of fiscal consolidation and, in any case, the HNS Club will support this proposal for a law on the establishment and division of the ministry and other central bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59671	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59672	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll do it for a while. In fact, we see that the basic reason for the new reconstruction is that it's rationalization. So far, we've had six different inspections under the State Inspectorate since 1 January 1999, and now we're returning them to the parent ministries. So basically, so far, these six inspectors have used the same spaces, used one vehicle, one photocopier, one phone line. They were so located at 57 locations. According to the 2012 report, one of the main problems is the insufficient number of vehicles. I wonder how it will be now and how this inspector will function now since January 1st when he asks his respective minister for a special vehicle, especially photocopier space, and how these costs will be borne. When we look at only the Ministry of Tourism in the 2014 budget, 35 inspectors are provided for. Where's the other 80 going to be when we know that almost 120 worked on those jobs? Also, a representative of the Ministry of Administration at the Tourism Committee responded that it would be necessary by 1 January to amend around 100 laws so that the inspection could function in quality. For example. The residence tax will not be controlled by inspectors within the Ministry of Tourism but by the Ministry of Finance. We know the Ministry of Finance can only control the revenues of the state budget, and residence tax is not what it means to change or the Law on residence taxes, not to tourist communities and the like, or all of this is just a good excuse for us to get rid of the head of the branch, the head and similar leaders within these locations and outposts of the State Inspectorate. Analyzing how little surveillance there was during the first six months of this year, I found that there were over 23,000 controls in the catering activity, and in tourism in 1667. 35 inspectors should mean over 700 controls have in the next six months. That's gotta be inconclusive. Although it's a late hour like this, but believe me, 817 civil servants are listening to this now, and they're afraid to expect our decision because they don't know what's going to happen. If there's any real rationalization, it's only possible by canceling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59673	Thank you, too. Minister, do you want a final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59674	Is this the last point?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59675	If you have any more, we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59676	I have this on the implementation of the European Union Regulation, so there's no problem. Therefore, as regards the issue of independence of the inspection, I believe that the Head of the State Inspectorate was either the Chief State Inspector or the Inspectorate, who is a state official by status, and the deputy inspectors, or inspectors, are state officials. Now, at the head of central state bodies where these same inspectors will work will be those who are now state officials, ministers, and the inspection has its independence. For example, in the composition of the Ministry of Administration, there is an administrative inspection as a structural unit of the level of the sector established under a specific law and in one of these articles, officials are, in effect, prohibited from having a literal impact on inspectors in the independence of their work. I must admit that I have never known why the administrative inspection was part of the Ministry of Administration, and the National Inspectorate's inspection, not within the Ministry of Labour or why the administrative inspection is not part of the State Inspectorate, and that is true of all 40 inspections. There is one more thing that Mr. Bozinović correctly noticed. In fact, if we look at a systematic solution in the State Administration System Act, that provision is in force all the time, so since 2001, inspection operations are systematically carried out in the first instance in the offices of the state administration, and in the second degree in central state bodies unless a special law is made otherwise. And then special laws were made so that no inspection except sports was in the offices of the state administration. So the systematic solution became the only exception, and these exceptions became the rule. When we talk about the State Administration Reform Strategy, they are preparing at the Ministry of Administration and will see the light of day as early as this year. One chapter will be touched by inspection jobs and we will try to trace this similar to what is now a systematic solution to implement it in the next few years where we plan to round up the offices of the state administration a little bit, so we will strengthen them a little, and then these organisational problems will be, let's just say, sort of solved. However, the rounding-up of the state administration offices in the counties has their own political connotations because already some units of regional self-government are in fact pointing out that it is the abolition of the county, etc. This is a purely organisational issue, and as such I would consider it at the moment. During the July of this year, I visited the Office of State Administration in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and at the entrance and took a photo of it. So, at the entrance to the building where the state administration's office you have now 7 tables of state institutions from which the board of the Office of State has already faded because it was first placed, and then as they were separated from the Office of State Administration, individual services were just putting the board on and you by how many boards you can see when someone was singled out from the Office of State Administration. So now we have meaning first of all the Management Department for Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection County, and then the State Office for Statistics, and then the State Inspectorate, then the Department for Investigation Affairs of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, and then the Sanitary Inspection from the Ministry of Health, and finally the Department of Environmental Affairs. That's the last board. Now it's likely that instead of this board of the State Inspectorate there will be tables, not exactly six, not so many of them because the jobs that were done by three, four economic inspectors were done only in the center. But there'll be another one instead of the State Inspectorate. What should be a strategy and I agree there, but then it's a strategy not one or one of the governments. This is, therefore, a strategy that should, of course, be decided by the State Administration to separate the transactions from the inspection and, in the first instance, be in the deconcentrated public administration bodies in the second instance of the central one. That would be normal. And that's how it's supposed to work. It is true that the responsibility of the head of the central authorities is, therefore, the simplest or best to have the inspection, to be directly or precisely responsible for their work. So, not to affect the work of the inspector, but to direct the work of the inspection as they do with all other constituency units in their ministry. As far as state officials are concerned, I think this difference is already the representative you've asked of these 35 and now it's 120, so this difference is going to work in my knowledge at the Ministry of Finance and I think that the resolutional ministries in which the officials are supposed to cross over are already going to have some sort of distribution of how many, so no one is going to do it because the inspectorate is going to be out of a job. I think that at the end of the year, according to the Civil Service Act, one part of the staff is eligible for retirement, which is a statistical fact because this year, someone among them must be 65. Also, their status remains the same. They're still civil servants. Their jobs will have the same names, so you don't need what the representative said, you don't need special coefficients. If someone changes their place of employment, that is regulated by the State Employees Coefficients Regulation. So this is one organisational part. The law is called the Law of Design and Part-Corruption, which is why I represent it. I guess when the special laws come, we're already in the ministry to show a few such laws. Then there will be opportunities to deal more closely with the way inspections are done, and then I believe there will be opportunities for a more detailed discussion. So this is independent because it's late. An opportunity for one of these general debates, so we also touched on strategies and inspections in general. But, MP, what you mentioned for one let's call it that to the College of Inspectors, I don't think at this point we're going to raise it at Parliament level but it's a good idea that it's a good idea to really be given to almost all the ministries of organized inspections that then I'm going to take over at the Ministry of Administration, so that in some way no coordination or college is made, so even in that sense, try to even the way things are done and see what kind of organisational problems are. Respecting everything you've said, I'm calling on the representatives to have one central state body under this law less after the State Trade Policy Office. That's two state, central state bodies down. And when the amendment to the State Administration System Act comes, then we'll have 17 other state bodies, but not central less, and I believe that we'll create a prerequisite for being, so to speak up in the hope that it won't sound too cynical on the way to an effective public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59677	Thank you. We have a replica, Davorin Bozinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59678	Well, well, Minister, I'm glad you got this, because it's as much as it might be on the first and it doesn't seem one of the key issues of the overall development of Croatia and let's really see, I'm not saying that we need to rephrase solutions. But you have states, you have state administrations that have been working on reform for 20, 30 years. There's a lot of literature about it. I don't pretend to be an expert here, but I've been reading something about it, and I've worked at least two decades in the administration. Try to think about this solution a little bit better. This kind of independent entity within the administration gives them one strength, gives them one independence, and these are the people who are then open to both the public and the Parliament and who are responsible for professionally performing inspection tasks. I think the role of your ministry is irreplaceable, because on this particular American example, the president of that council of chief inspectors is elected, and his deputy is the Deputy Minister of Administration and also responsible for the budget. So that's something I really see as your primary job. Of course, you're not going into radiological detection, and I don't know what your inspectors are doing. But the principle of raising quality, assessing the quality of services, is something based on which modern administration is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59679	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59680	Well, here's a little bit. And I thank you for this suggestion. Otherwise, not this suggestion. Otherwise, there is no standard European practice on administration, we have otherwise analysed it when we have tried to find good solutions for new solutions in the Law on State Service or civil servants, so we have seen that, say Slovenia, Slovakia and Sweden have the same model, although these are countries with very different development, degree of development or development of state administration on the one hand, while some other countries have a completely different model, and perhaps more similar are Slovenia, for example, Austria. So I believe it's a matter of inspection services. We have a final example, so since he came to the ministry at the end of 2011 somewhere in 2010 from the Office of State Administration who are again not part of the ministry but are the closest to the Ministry of Administration is the Sanitary Inspectorate. When you ask people on the ground and what Agent Juričev-Martinchev said, it's true. So now we have a problem where it's isolated, and it's singled out in 2010, so it's not a party or a party thing because we have a really logistical problem. So now these sanitary inspectors are all alone, not leaning on offices anymore, and we have a kind of problem. When you ask your health ministry colleagues if this has contributed to the quality of the Sanitary Inspectorate's work, they say it is. And now, in this debate, which is more effective or not more effective, of course, the Minister of Administration cannot assess whether the Sanitary Inspectorate or any other inspection has completed its tasks. I mean, during this summer we had the opportunity to consider the work of the IRS inspector, so all in some way ultimately comes down to the law being applied and the inspections being both part of education and part of prevention and, of course, punishing what's for it. Here, I thank you once again and I will take this opportunity to thank the representatives for the debate and here I call on the representatives to accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59681	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It'll be enough for tonight. Tomorrow we will continue with the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 with a proposal for projections for 2015 and 2016. Have a good night. Session interrupted at 23.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59682	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 516, the debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. We have accepted this proposal to discuss and decide the government's amendments with 77 votes in favour, 17 against and 3 abstentions. At the pay phone is Secretary of Administration Arsen Bauk. Please explain Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59683	Thank you. So Amendment 1 is defined, in fact with these two amendments are defined in a better way by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Tourism rather than by what the State Inspectorate has done so far, and this was in some way the conclusion of the Committee on Tourism, in this way, to edit these two articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59684	Thank you for your explanation. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. What? And you do, I'm sorry I didn't see. Mr. Richembergh, please. On behalf of the club you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59685	Mr. Vice President, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the government's efforts to explain these two statements with this amendment, as you said and the Tourism Committee warned that it was not well solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-26-0.u59686	Thank you for this brief debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the declaration of Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 79 votes in favour, 15 against and 3 abstentions. Minister, please come to the pay phone and... But you did explain both of us, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then I open a debate on Amendment 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hereby conclude the debate and vote on Amendment 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. This amendment was accepted by 89 votes for and six abstentions. I am voting on the final draft of the law, and I note that most of the votes of all MPs, 76 votes, are needed. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed with 78 votes for, 12 against and six abstentions.
