ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62253	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day! We're moving on with the session. We'll discuss - Family Law Proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No.510 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session. The bill will be explained by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62254	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, good morning to you. Here we go with family law, a very sensitive and demanding law precisely because of family matters, something that is always very sensitive. Of course, this law, as well as most laws, is not written for situations where everything is good and where things work and do, but simply is written because of those where the state has to intervene. Every time the state intervenes, it's always a question of where this thin border is where we have to leave the family in some way independent and to decide on its own internal relations and where the moment is where the state needs to intervene to protect children or other family members primarily at that time. That's why we approached the amendment of the Family Law to something larger, we were doing a practically new law because the amendments and additions in such a large form would be very non-transparent to those who work, so we decided to say to one like this one anyway, a new family law that changed most of their provisions compared to the previous one. We traded it for a few reasons. The first is that we have very little resources to prevent manipulative parents from using their children for each other’s accounts at the time of divorce. In the last 10 years, the number of children found in psychosocial treatment has grown terribly, children who are highly traumatized because of irresponsible parents who use them as a means of mutual accounting or in the battle for the division of property or any other interest that adults unfortunately have at the time when the divorce takes place. Secondly, we've changed the law because of some other life situations I'm going to say about here and, of course, because of conventions that have been signed all these years but have not been implemented or have not been entered through a certain legal proposal and therefore because of all these shortcomings but primarily because of these life problems that we've been having in the changes to family law. What some of the new ones are, I will start here from the divorce of marriage at a time when we need to sort of protect the child and his family home, so the place where the child will continue his life and in that part we have, therefore, protected the family home in several chapters, or place where the child should continue to live. We introduced some other divorce procedures, so now people are going to counseling, we had a family mediation that was essentially on the edges of our system, some associations were working, so mostly NGOs. But it was never an integral part of the social care system that we think might help now. Mediation has been developing much more in the justice system for some other things, it's very interesting. When you had any other disputes of the monetary type or any other kind of mediation developed there, a family mediation that could help a number of people agree during the divorce and that this divorce would be much more amortized in their conflict, this family mediation here in this system did not develop, we will now put it as part of the social care system. We've also introduced a parenting plan. So it's about one plan that allows for joint parental care for the child. We believe that regardless of two adults getting divorced, that a child has the right to communicate with both parents, he has the right to meet, to socialize with both parents. So it's equal to the primary right of a child, but it's also the right of both parents to be together. We think that a parent plan that will be very clearly structured, structured already in law now, but it will also be through a special form and regulation that we will make, in fact, one good tool that can enable almost 70% of marriage partners who divorce in agreement, divorce in peace, then write together, decide how they will take care of their children together. Of course, those who are highly decorated must go to court. So the parents in which there is violence, in which absolutely any communication is disabled, in which conflicts are so great that at all two people can't sit at a common table and talk, unfortunately about this minority will have to decide the court. Fortunately, that is a small number of these cases, but as in any situation, these are the cases most often made public and filled with newspaper columns, and then they get the impression that most people actually do. According to our statistics, more than 70% of people get divorced in agreement, somewhere around 15% are couples that we think we can get through the mediation process to reach a certain dispute, that is, a certain agreement and, of course, there will be one minority left for whom we have put some provisions here that will have to go to court and that the court will have to decide on. At the time when the court decides, of course, for those who do not respect the court's decision or what they agreed on in the parental plan, there are also certain sanctions. The sanctions have been kind of graduated, from a warning, from being able to claim damages, for example for a parent who, I don't know, arrived, for example. From Split to Zagreb he did not see his child, the other side will have to make up for the cost of the trip, until we can ask for the other side or social care centre to ask for a change in the child's custody decision. So, if the parent is manipulative, if he harms his child’s behavior, if he does not allow another parent and violates the child’s right to have contact with another parent, at that point we can reach out to this ultimate measure, which is a change in the custody decision. We solved here and something that was one question of life, so he arrived at the Ministry and I personally had a number of e-mails, people who were terribly unhappy because their children died at birth, at which point they weren't married and the father couldn't sign up as the father of a child even though he was the father of a child. So, with the trauma that their child died, they still had additional trauma that the law made it impossible for them to enroll at that time as a father of a child. We've solved that part, and now those obstacles, as far as family law is concerned, have been removed. In Family Law, we've limited some surveillance, namely, we're in the analysis we've been doing that our surveillance takes too long. We found surveillance that lasts 12 years. The 12-year surveillance definitely shows that we didn't do what we needed to do. This means that we left the child, obviously, to a dysfunctional family, for too long, then it happens to us that after those 12 years, such a child actually ends up in one of the correctional homes. So we didn't do what our mission was, the social care center mission, and that's to help the family if the assessment, of the new law, is two times six months, that really in that family the child is in some way threatened and that there's nothing that can be done to make this family better. Then other decisions must be made, which means that this time we have installed some mechanisms that will help the centres to detect what and how to help a particular family, but also to give the child a second chance as soon as possible. And if we don't, there's no surveillance of some kind of alibi story. And when you look at what we actually did for the baby, very little. We've also arranged the adoption part, namely, you know that there's been a lot of controversy in the current law where it's been written unless the parent calls in three months or reports within three months, so that's what's supposed to take care of the child. And everyone here in this room we said that it wasn't childcare, that it was so fulfilling a form that it's actually held very unfairly, so to speak, paws on a child and there's no possibility of a child going into adoption. We have now significantly completed that provision and we have said that if it shows no interest in the child by its behaviour, that is already sufficient reason to initiate a procedure to take away parental care. When it comes to adoption, together with individual organizations that gather either potential adoptors or people who adopt them, we accepted their suggestions to introduce a professional preparation for adopters. Because, according to some experts, when you buy a mixer, you get instructions on how to put it into service, but when you adopt a child, then no one tells you what to do or how to do. Most children are highly traumatized because they come from families where they have suffered either abuse or abandonment and neglect. Well, accommodation in an institution itself is also very traumatized and simply leaves certain scars on the child. Therefore, professional preparation for adoptors should actually be some preparation for these people to know what awaits them in adoption so that we do not have any problems, so that we can deal with problems, so that perhaps in a future period they will be waiting for them. Therefore, we have decided and made another step, which is a child's accommodation with a goal of adoption that can last up to 6 months to make a good assessment of whether the adoption will be in line with the child's well-being or not. So it's one stage in which we should see if such a co-existence works and whether it can then turn into a lasting life and into an adoption. In this law, there have also been some major changes in people with disabilities, therefore, especially those who are deprived of their business ability. We are a country that has an average number of people who are taking away their business ability on an annual basis. When you look at EU countries, we have an extremely large number, which means that one space may also be open to manipulation. In order not to do so, and in order to respect the Convention on Human Rights that we have taken over, we have also decided to form a legal representative. Therefore, one legal representative institute, which should legally represent children the moment they are found as a party to the court proceedings or decide on their rights, or on their lives, since they cannot defend themselves in court and defend themselves. And they will also work, of course, to represent these people who are deprived of their business abilities. It's our obligation by convention, but I think it's one human obligation to protect these people maximumly, protect their rights and not allow in any way to manipulate such people because of any interest in property or anything else. So, it's about having 8 legal counsels for the start, so people with a legal trial, who will be able to approach the court and fight for the rights of children and persons who will go into the process of resolving their business ability. And finally we introduce some other mechanisms that will leave a partial business ability. Unfortunately, today you have a lot of people who are completely deprived of their business ability. If they were evaluated by some systems operating in EU countries, they would certainly remain one part of their business capacity because they are simply able to decide on some, if nothing else about the small-life small things that are important to them and I think they should at least leave that part, and some of course other business skills can and should be taken away. Of course, it's all in accordance with the rules of the profession and the ones that at that moment the witches. Here these may be the biggest changes, the biggest emphasis in the Family Law, and we'll discuss everything else today in the debate that's about to take place. We are open to all suggestions and this debate and serve to make the Family Law perhaps even better than what we have written. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62255	Thank you very much. Replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62256	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister. As for everything you said, first of all, we had a recent referendum that included marriage and definition of marriage, family, family relations, even though I was in the debates to regulate the issue by family law. Unfortunately, they're all for or against something, and we're not in anything together. I am in favour of this and our club that in this bill the protection of children's rights, the greater the problem in Croatia that in a variety of definitions are concrete enforcement of child rights. Many families in Croatia are divorced, many of the percentages of the divorce in Croatia after marriage and this is a very important issue, and most important of all, and I'm a little surprised that the initiative on behalf of the family has not announced it, and this is a very important issue, which is child protection. What children will do after these traumas of divorce and we have seen the consequences of severe divorces, irresponsible parents, irresponsible parents who should take care of their children’s future regardless of the legal consequences of divorce. It is good that the first reading of this law is because we will have time, the public debate has passed, the first reading of the law is now, the clubs will give their word and MPs and MPs and it is good that first reading and this is a very important law. And I call here in front of the HDSSB club and all colleagues and the wider community and various initiatives in Croatia that have advocated the protection of families, marriages and marriages, regardless of the results of the referendum, regardless of the attitudes that have been in Croatia over the past month, to ensure that the right to protect children, the right to protect elderly persons but generally the right to protect marriages and families in this family law is given the highest level in view of fundamental European values. I believe that Croatia belongs in the countries of the European legal area and we need to give maximum protection to children and families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62257	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Croatian Labourers' Club of Representatives, counterpart Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62258	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Family Law that lies before us. There must be a special law because in a different way than any other law, it concerns every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. When we had a round table here in the Assembly, organized by 4 committees and a thematic session related to the Family Law, then the minister said at one point that some parliamentary deputies under such laws that are fat, are largely treated as a lecture and read them as well, to look at first how many pages they have and then decide what and how to do with them. We have read this law and we have not read it as a book, we have read it really as an extremely important law that affects the everyday life of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and what we are beginning to conclude is that it is not understood or that it is not understood enough for the citizens to whom it applies. In this time of public debate since the law was given to a public debate, we have heard extremely much of the opinion of the profession, we have heard a lot of opinions of the professors of family law, lawyers, employees of the welfare center and more or less everyone says the same thing. The law has not been finalized, and as such it will cause a lot of problems and a lot of misunderstandings to be applied. I have no doubt that the proponent in amending the existing law or the adoption of a new law went with the best intention of solving the problems we have until the end. However, we have a situation that we have had an existing family law that I will be free to the end, so to say, we have not learned to implement, so the law that has not brought us back to life in practice and on which we have not passed with a good grade. The question is now what will happen to this law, and how long will it really take for all of us to be educated in it, to teach it quality, or to be taught best by those who have to spend it, which is primarily the employees of the welfare center, then the judges who are here we heard in the opening line that we have more and more divorces every day, that we have more and more traumatized children every day, so how much will they be able to do and at what time learn those who have to apply it daily. It is extremely dangerous for every law, especially for Family if it has a lot of indetermination in it because then we come to a reading book where everyone reads this book in their own way and on the question of the professor to interpret what he reads says someone's opinion. That's not good, that leads to unequal treatment. And now we are witnessing that in divorces, marriages are not treated in the same way in all courts, that there is not the same treatment in all social care centres, that parents may in some way be privileged more in larger cities where there are more NGOs dealing with their problems than those citizens living in smaller communities where these NGOs and the civil sector that would work with them and help them overcome their obstacles are not enough. Since this is the first reading I really hope that we will all be constructively on the same track, which is to make the law good, to make the law more life-saving, to make it easier to apply and to correct what is corrected by the second reading. Since the law has 557 articles in common, you can say something, but given that there are a lot of speakers today, I think everyone will focus on a certain part, so on behalf of our club, I'm going to use the time to warn maybe some of the things that we should be taking care of and maybe next time to read them, I'm not going to say change, but maybe a more decident explanation. For example, when it comes to family homes, we have an article that says that during the time of marriage, a mate must not alienate or burden the property that represents the marriage property. This means that when it says that it must not be written in law, what are the consequences if it does. This is how we get into a situation where the law simply sanctions unless something like that is meant to be done. So we have a provision that's at the threat level but for that provision unless it's respected, we don't have sanctions. We're talking about child protection, and I'm sure anyone who does something like that would have to know what his sanctions are. Article 45(1) states that only in the event of an end of a marriage or a marriage union can marriage mates arrange property relations. What does that mean? That they will have to wait for a final verdict on the divorce. There's going to be a problem with that because everyone in their own way is just going to interpret this provision and I think here's where we should put maybe another addition. In Article 298(3) of Restraint, you say that you provide for the maintenance of a mate at an indefinite time when there are justified circumstances. Justified circumstances, then, explain that these are, for example, the length of the duration of the marriage, the number of children in common, and child care during the duration of the marriage, and the distribution of family obligations. I think this definition is extremely dangerous for us because it opens up the space for many cases, for example, of housewives who will require restraint under the exception of justified circumstances. And I would even say for a reason. Because these mothers and those women we now say are family, they care about family, and they're not employed, we don't know the cost of costing their work, and that's exactly the past work we're calling upon, based on which we can demand restraint until further notice. We have a situation in which we transfer family care to another person or to a third person. Where is the difference between when a child will be under custody and when someone will be able to pass on parental care and here he actually writes a third person or institution with a saying? That's just as vague. We're all witnessing that in practice we come up with strange situations, that people remember everything, that they always use it somehow in their own favor, and to the harm of the one we most defend by this law, and these are children right now. As for the adoption of children and the protection of children. Here we are yesterday witnessing an unloved situation in the Vinkovci, and these are the situations that must concern us. And these situations, I think, contribute precisely to the end of unsettled laws. It's always a factor man, it's always a man who's going to do something extremely good in a particular situation but who in a particular situation can make it extremely bad. That is why we need to be decided on the subject of obligations and on the responsibility of especially the employees of the welfare centre, but in this case also the foster home. There's always that space of manipulation, unfortunately this whole adoption thing took too long, too many years. And I also welcome the adoption register. However, in this law, we again have no priorities as to how and how the person enrolled in the adoption register will receive a child. Who has this championship, which means choosing the adoptive person who wrote his own wishes in the adoption register, and whom did the welfare center consider to be a potential good adoptor? Who is it that can say that one person, one person, or one family is a better adoptor than another family? We don't have that in this law again. So it can technically happen to us that we estimate that in that register a particular family waits 10 years and more to become adoptive because someone with some emotion has decided that someone else will be a better parent. These are the things that we have to take care of just for the protection of children and that we don't get the case that we have right now the freshest and so on. Another controversial article here, I think, in 98, which speaks of more valuable assets or more valuable property rights of a child where a parent has to manage these more valuable property rights to obtain court approval. What are the more valuable property rights? We'll get back to implementing this law in a situation where we won't be aware of it until the end. And what I'm worried about reading this law is we have children's rights, we have parents' obligations and duties, but I haven't come across parents' rights anywhere. We are now witnessing more and more other opportunities, different opportunities where we have extremely good parents who in a particular situation have absolutely no right. And finally, here's just to briefly look back at family mediation. When we discuss mediators, family mediators, then we come to this fundamental problem that we do not have them and what you ministers mentioned, we have mediators I think there is some sort of information about 500 licensed mediators in the Republic of Croatia, but in most cases the most concerned with trade law. The family mediators must therefore only train them and it is good that the law goes into practice with 1.7, but what remains unclear is that it is written here that the mediators are being trained, but we do not have information with those mediators from the social care center that are still persons who train for mediators and what key, whether a tender has been opened, whether these people who already have a license for mediators can go to a particular education, and let's just say that they are even more sophisticated about family mediation. I just hope by 1.7 we can do all of this so we don't end up living in the country of the future because we don't have a right to the present. That wouldn't be good. The problems are extremely large with regard to the implementation of the Family Law, which we are all aware of. I really welcome, I really welcome the effort to go to a better place, but I also think that we haven't learned enough from the old law, that we haven't mastered it to the end, and that it will be extremely important for us not to make education just for the mediators, but really to implement this law in a good and good way, to educate both judges and employees of the welfare center, and then to the citizens, it's just that they're somehow being educated, and most likely, they're going to have to have as many opportunities as possible to educate with lawyers as possible, but just that's how it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62259	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the Family Law proposal. True, the law has spurred the huge interest of the Croatian public, the overall and the general and the professional, but in some ways it was to assume. This is one of the most important laws that penetrates all spheres of human life, and so it was to assume that interest would be this great. Everything that is in some way related to the social aspect of society always arouses the greatest interest. It was similar with the Law on Social Care and the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, the Law on Labour, but in all of this something very good, something that encourages, which is that the public and the profession cease to be silent observers and rightly seek to be co-creators of the laws that apply to them. It is not surprising, therefore, that a large number of those who have been involved in the debate or even pollemising the tones of individual debates. This fact should in no way be discouraging for the proposings, but it is important that constructive discussions and proposals should be reviewed because it is a very important law governing a very specific sensitive area for this society. There was a lot of controversy in the public over the duration of the public debate and the moment it began. We at the SDP club hold that a public debate that has been going on for almost four months and today will continue as long as it is in the parliamentary procedure. My colleague Tyrelli mentioned one thing that seems to me to be a very good initiative of four parliamentary committees, which I think would be good, let's call it a previous debate, which we think would be good if it became a practice in the Croatian Parliament. In the previous debate on this law, there was a possibility for a number of distinguished guests, experts, all three of them were attorneys, experts from the Department of Family Law, lawyers, employees from the Social Care Centre, lawyers, members of civil society. It was a good opportunity for everyone to get involved in the debate, a public debate on this law, to make all their comments and suggestions. Since this law goes into two readings, it means that there is still plenty of time to improve the welfare of all, to make this law the best possible if necessary. We at the SDP club would not really question whether it was necessary to amend the law in such a large way. We believe that this should have been done for three very clear and concrete reasons. The first reason is that the profession has for years warned that the existing law in some of its segments is inconclusive, that in some parts it is illogical, that it is ineffective, even if you want it to be unfair. Today, some critics use these same epithets for this law, but it probably confirms how good any solution will always be its critics, or as bad as any solution will always be found by those who advocate it. But at the end of the day, it is that it shows in the end how good, quality, bad, effective or ineffective a legal solution is. The second reason is, as we have already heard, about the fact that Croatia is losing disputes at the European Court of Human Rights. It is not, of course, an unimportant amount coming from the Croatian budget for damages. However, another key fact is that we are losing disputes is actually saying that some of the provisions of the law are in conflict with fundamental human rights, and that is proof of why this law should have been changed extensively. But the third most important reason why we feel that we should have gone to changes to this law is children, children who suffer, children with whom they are being manipulated, who are being abused, and unfortunately by their own parents. There's a growing number of children as we've heard in institutions, in some kind of treatment, in psychosocial treatment. And yes, it's conflicting and highly conflicting divorces. But we should ask ourselves a question and try to answer it, whether the justice system, whether the welfare system has the right answer to child abuses. Are there mechanisms to stop these abuses and manipulations from harming children? Because if parents are not mature enough, if they are not responsible enough for their own child or for their own children, then the state must intervene with its institutions. That's why we write laws, which is why they should be clear, unequivocal, enforceable, which will primarily protect those who are weakest and are children. Finally, Croatian family legislation needs to be harmonised as we know very well with many international documents and international legal standards. We know very well that we've signed everything, which we don't sort of adhere to. Therefore, the purpose of amending the law and public debate should always be to improve the law, to improve it, to correct the existing solution. And we at the SDP club really believe that this law will do so, that this law corrects some absurdities, corrects some injustices, that many things change for the better. But, of course, if there are misunderstandings, if there are illogicalities on them, they need to be corrected. During the debate, it was also heard that the law was too big, that it was too strong, that it contained 550 and some articles, that it was too much for the citizens, that they would not understand. We at the SDP club think that argument doesn't stand. In fact, too many articles are the consequences of the fact that this law tries in a very dynamic and almost daily changing daily daily daily life to predict any possible situation in which the family can be found or in which it is located. In society such as Croatia, unfortunately there is still a need for detailed norms and those relationships that more developed societies do not norm. So by adopting the law, the story of family and the work of norming is not finished. No matter what law he is to be observed in the context of a relationship in society. By changing the general state of society, we will help to realize and implement the law, and raising the general awareness and labelling of the family as well as the overall economic development will make some norms too high or simply create a need for some other norms. Therefore, there was also a comment that law enforcement requires huge financial resources which, in the current economic situation, is actually impossible to ensure and that this should be a reason not to go into major changes to the law. We believe that this is also the wrong argument for the simple reason that it is a matter of political decision and political priority. Such a question simply does not arise when something of vital interest to Croatian society. True, the current economic situation is not simple, it is not easy and it takes a certain amount of courage to go into such a comprehensive reform. Unfortunately, for 10 years, however, a bad financial situation is, in fact, an alibi and an excuse not to tackle some very serious social problems. It seems to us to be taking too long, much and too much of an excuse not to do anything. Law enforcement required a lot of work, certainly a large number of experts. It certainly wasn't simple, it wasn't fast, it wasn't easy work. But we at the SDP club hold that another important job is coming because the adoption of the law is not over. In fact, we need to do whatever it takes to create preconditions for the full implementation of this law. This process must not be left to time or improvisation or any case. So the changes in some segments are really big, really extensive and it takes time for all judges and lawyers and staff to be educated. This will certainly take months, and we welcome what will take place only in July of next year. Fifteen minutes is really too little to look at on behalf of the club on all the newspapers of this law, but on one example, I might show how complex this is, which even the waist completely disagrees. For example, a child in court proceedings. There has been a lot of talk during the public debate on whether to put a child at the start or end of the proceedings. When it is best to give the child the chance to express his opinion, his view, which is therefore the best solution. Some think that the current situation in which the child is at the end of the procedure is extremely bad because the child is already somehow tired, masquerade, exhausted from the parent battle and pressure, and others feel that it is not good for the child to be at the start of the procedure. For what? Because then, on his back, he takes on a terrible burden and practice that shows that he is being manipulated and in some way the psychological torture of that child by parents who are somehow being betrayed by their own child. So for a child there is no best solution, only the least bad solution is chosen. So it's bad for him and the beginning and the end, but at no time can we forget the child's interest, and in that sense we have to do everything we can. Therefore, the child must not be tormented with multiple testimony but should certainly be given the opportunity to express his opinion. In this context, we consider two things to be important. The first is the education of all those who come in contact with the child and we'd be here as a society, we shouldn't make an appointment. Therefore, to educate both judges and lawyers and employees of the center for working with children in order to avoid multiple calls on the child to testify and give his testimony. But there's something else we'd like to point out on behalf of the SDP club. So the environment in which the child gives his testimony should not be a courtroom. Because the courtroom isn't a good and nice place for a kid. It's got to be some more suitable space. And I'm sure you would, for example. The leaders of cities were meeting in this regard when, for example, Madam Minister, by your side, came a kind appeal or a request to the leaders to grant a suitablely arranged space that would be for that purpose, so where the child might give his statement. The only article I'm going to look back on behalf of the club is Article 185. Namely, this article speaks of the status of adopters i.e. who can do anything and who can't adopt a child. We believe that a man and woman living in an extramarital community should also be given the right to adopt a child because we do not find any strong enough argument that adoption can be allowed for example. who lives alone but can't even live in an out-of-marriage community. Therefore, we ask the Ministers to consider sorting out this article in a slightly different way. And let me conclude, the bill provides some new mechanisms that we believe will be in the service of stopping child manipulation by our own parents, giving some of the mechanisms that we believe will also be in the function of dispensing justice. This law corrects some injustices and absurdities toward fathers, for example. and we consider it a quality step and an improvement in family legislation and therefore we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62261	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear the lines, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62262	Dear colleagues Jerkovic, here today when we discuss Family Law, I feel elated because soon the Constitution will guarantee me that I am a man. Since I'm married. So the special atmosphere will probably be for us in the Parliament today. At the end of what you pointed out, your relationship with your fathers, I completely think that one of those segments in which men with this law are satisfied. I think this law is a good, good starting point for solving problems in society. When the referendum was discussed, the family was at least discussed, and the family is in a crisis in Croatia. It was politicized, but it didn't. This law is not politicizing, it's trying to solve some of the obvious problems that are happening. However, I am probably boring, I will warn as many good Family Laws as we bring here in the Croatian Parliament we will face disastrous court practice. And we need to be aware of that. So I also appeal to this law to finally reform the judiciary because reforming the judiciary is not the law, reforming the judiciary of the good laws that we are, the judicial laws mean those who regulate the judiciary but who need to resolve relations in the judiciary. Because when it doesn't mean I repeat it a hundred times meddling in court proceedings. When 32% of the poor are in Croatia according to the research I believe in, which was published the other day and when every third man is a citizen of such laws and the other law is absolutely certain that they are in the spotlight of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62263	Replication response, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62264	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I agree with you. We have a lot of strategies, a lot of quality laws, but what we're obviously not good about or we're not good enough is the implementation of these same laws, the implementation of these same strategies. So it's not enough to norm something, something good to edit or write some kind of law because very often all these strategies and all the good laws are broken into a harsh reality, which is that in implementation we often fail very often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62265	Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62266	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Jerkovic spoke of giving statements that should not be brought before the court, so I decided to take the opportunity to remind all of us in fact and ask the Minister of Honor and Associates to start to think more seriously, analyze the concept that is called in the original... The Icelandic story of Iceland, which was then in the Nordic countries, was caught in some others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the literal translation is the children's house. It is a separate facility in which in very friendly frameworks and as far as the object looks and as far as the organisation of the work is concerned, it is fundamentally imagined in situations of abuse, children who have been abused. But regardless of all the situations in which children are dealing with police, court, social services should actually set up such a system in which the child is separated from the usual police and judicial premises primarily because there is actually in fact especially with younger children to feel that they have done something wrong, and that is exactly what we want to avoid in such... which is arranged to be acceptable to children in which the job is united so that the child gives only one statement that can then even be shown in a video link in court, so the child is completely separated from trauma in some way and re-traumating in the various situations in which he comes, so here I agree with my colleague Jerkovic and I invite everyone to then try to think about this concept and in some way start introducing him into our system here in the Republic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62267	Replication response, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62268	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify maybe I wasn't precise enough or I was misunderstood, so as far as the area in which the children show what is in principle exists, we have withdrawn over a million euros from the European funds to edit these areas but what is missing is the cooperation and coordination of the fact that these spaces are rarely used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62269	Ivanka Roksandić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Jerkovic, I could relate to the replica of my colleague Vuksic and what you have said and this and the current law is not the only bad law that implementation of all stakeholders involved in the implementation of this law is very bad. First of all, we should all work together to educate people in social care centres because we gave them and teamed them up because we gave them great powers, so they'll need co-workers Jerkovic a lot of money, I would disagree that they won't need a lot of money, and so will judicial authorities first and foremost. In courts you often have the biggest problems, there are people who work for as many as we have family departments, no matter how much they try they still can't accept to deal with and get into the core, I know that emotions can't work there, that the law is something else, but here you have this case, recently we read all of us in Moščenica where parents are being kidnapped for that little child who has already been traumatized that the whole place has been traumatized by so-called. To me above all, this word of conduct does not fall under such a family law, and that word itself is something that I cannot accept in these proceedings, some kind of child-absorbing or something, but an enforcement of a child, it sounds terrible to me in these judicial frameworks. And you know why? Just because both the judge and the one who came from the welfare center did so, the child belongs to the mother, we evaluated it and the child goes to the mother. So these are very complicated situations. When you said you needed to talk about the testimony and that you needed some special rooms you said yourself, there are, there's only we don't use it. Well, I think we should go back to our colleagues and colleagues to the family centers. These facilities, the family centers are very well imagined. We should leave them there, team them up again, introduce a lot of experts from psychologists, rehabilitators who will really, truly, forgive me, just to finish a sentence that will help solve such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62271	Replication response, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62272	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, as far as the money is concerned, I didn't say it wasn't necessary, I just said that I thought it was a question of courage in this very, very difficult financial situation to secure the money for reform. Second, you said this law was good. When I was talking about having good laws and good strategies, I didn't mean this law. I don't think this law is good. However, I think that if you remember 2011 and the strategy adopted by the HDZ Government, the strategy for developing the social care system in the Republic of Croatia from 2011 to 2016, then you know that it states that the state of family legal protection of children and adult members in the family under the care of the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory, so this is also written by the HDZ Government and not only that, it adds in this strategy that the family law has not over the past period resolved a number of legal and institutional assumptions that guarantee the full protection of children and persons under the care that this issue should be approached systematically, which implies reform of family legislation and its compliance with international documents. So already at the time we had proof that in serious changes to family law absolutely should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62273	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62274	Just for a little while. So, everything goes by or falls on people and on human factors, on those who spend. And unfortunately, every law as good as it is falls on it. As far as we're concerned, we'll do everything we can to get the system well educated. The mediators have already gone to education, which is 60 people currently working either at the Social Care Centres or at the Family Centres. So they're already going to mediator education. We're still going to organize some educations most likely with outside experts who have something more, let's say, practical foot games, in order to get more education by the 7th month. On the other hand, we're on our way to the education center. Last weekend 40 and some social care workers were in first education and I have to admit that the evaluation was very good, that only three of them said 'it will show life whether the law is better or not', all the others said that these mechanisms were something that would make it easier for them to resolve the conflict. The problem is that so far they haven't had many mechanisms to stop a manipulative parent, to set a limit for him. And that was their key problem, and in that, they were all getting pretty exhausted. And the way we fall for people, he's talking about what you're talking about kids, so they're in some process of testimony. Most often, it is about children who are sexually abused, who find it difficult to witness. We fought here 15 more years ago for some provisions in which they write in the Penal Code that only a child can be questioned once. Unfortunately, this is not done because neither the majority of the people in the State's Attorney's Office nor in the courts want to use the rooms that are equipped. One part is equipped for children, for this kind of interrogation at police stations. This is where my colleague said how much money was spent on it. On the other hand, some institutions have such rooms. They are equipped with video cameras, so everything can be done, but people hardly come from their offices to such rooms. So that's what we have to do. We will seek cooperation with the Judicial Academy for this law, asking them to participate in this education because it is extremely important. And that's all we can do, so educate them, try to invite them, appeal to their professionalism, to their human conscience, I don't know how either. But it's really sad that we have rooms, it's no longer a problem that we don't have them, we have them, but people don't want to walk out of their office to help a child, to examine him just once, and not to traumatize him further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62275	Thank you. On behalf of the club of representatives, colleagues Ivanka Roksandić and Martina Banic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62276	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what my colleague Jerkovic said in response to the replica. Yes, the truth is, the basis for the adoption of this law stems from the need to improve legal provisions. However, we cannot say that this law was so bad that everything needed to be changed. Surely this comes from the strategy that you mentioned, which has been in force since 2011, and I believe that by 2016 it will really affect the improvement of this framework concerning family relations issues and legislation. During the debate, and during preparation, this law has caused many recommendations, I would say conflicts. Many associations dealing with the protection of the rights of children, families, adoptors, but also respected experts in the field of family law opposed the adoption of such legal provisions. The law deals with a very sensitive, I said, and complex family problem, a family that today in our traditional society is something that everything comes from and where everything comes back. And our constitution has indeed said that the family is under special protection of the state. As has already been said here today, 557 articles are very extensive and already in the public debate characterized as excessive and incomprehensible. A special place in the family has children as the most sensitive part, often the most vulnerable part of society. Proposers are guided by the experience and recommendations of the Ombudsman for children, who from 2004 to 2011, through their reports in the field of child care, meeting and association with children, pointed to the most common problems related to this Law, and mainly to the problems of children at the moment of divorce of parents, achieving joint parental care and association with children after the divorce of parents. It is alarming that the proposal suggests that around 1,500 children annually do not exercise that right to meet with another parent. Most often, as counterpart Vuksic said, the father. The Ombudsman also pointed out the lack of supervision of parental care, with long-term adoption procedures and too long stay of children in institutions and foster families. But it also pointed to the rights of the child, the health care, the child's allowance as well as other rights related to the application of the presummation of the fatherhood and the determination of the birth of the child from the biological father. All of these are problems that arise because of broken family relationships, and because of some unspeakable legal ones, we have already heard them, failures, which often threatens those who are most vulnerable. I said, they're kids. The focus of this law is precisely the family and rights of the child and the law through 8 areas of processing these rights. This is a law that everyone needs to understand, said counterpart Nancy Tyrelli. Not only are family-law professionals, but also a wide-ranging public because of life’s problems, as they pointed out through a public debate in this law. In marriage and marital relations, special changes are laid down in the divorce procedure. The Proposer introduces mediation as a mandatory process in the course of divorce if parents have not agreed on the legal consequences of marriage relating to common children and all possible problems. It's already been pointed out here in the mediation that there are a lot of strangers. I am pleased now, Minister, that you have indicated that they have already begun their education and I believe that they will be good and that they will be provided enough to bring this education to an end. Without that education, there really won't be any good mediation. The content of mandatory counselling before divorce is mostly educational and includes informing spouses, warning, guidance and knowledge of rights and obligations. But such counseling often forgets about the child, how it copes with the current family situation. It is therefore necessary to specifically warn marriage mates that they are obliged to take care of the child’s well - being when regulating controversial family relationships and to check how the child copes with current family situations. No provision obliges competent authorities to try to reconcile mates but to consult marriage counselors. Now they are in the family centres at this point which I have said since their founding, and I have already played an important role and it is necessary to strengthen these institutions, to entrust family relations with these institutions, and so perhaps relieve the centres for social care. How the constitutional provision to protect the family and marriage is missed is to install positive provisions to help the state preserve the family community. It is not enough to regulate the divorce procedure by law if all is legally agreed i.e. between marriage mates, there's no problem, the marriage is suddenly divorced. A particular problem with the divorce process has always been the issue of solving assets. If there is no prenup then they become and are most often difficult. It is good for this law to first place a child and to exercise and determine the right to live in a family home that represents a marital gain as well as on mobile property used by children especially by minor children to remain in the possession of children, i.e. the parent with whom the child will live. That's good in this law. The largest chapter of this law refers to the legal relationship between parents and children and measures to protect the rights and welfare of children. The law lays down the process of recognising motherhood and paternity, and in this process is the highest role played by especially paternity, welfare centres. I note once again that these centres at this point are still overloaded and are still under-teamed. So it's our job to team up with people in welfare centers. It's every parent's duty to take care of their children and their health, their development, their protection. The measures envisaged to achieve the personal relationship of parents with a child are all burden shifted to parents, there are not so many family treatments, there are no places to meet and socialize parents who are in a divorce and at these moments it is necessary to discuss child problems especially if it is a small child who needs greater protection. Family centers are places where parents can and when their relationships are disrupted with the help of experts to talk and make the best decisions for the child. I want to especially highlight the need for a child to have the right to meet his parents with the other parents he doesn't live with, to have personal relations with a child. Article 95 is provided for in paragraph 2. obliging a parent with whom a child is living to encourage meetings with another parent but also persons with whom the child is particularly close, if he so wishes or not contrary to the welfare of the child. The only question is, what does that mean, for example? In the same Article, third parents are obliged to enable the child to have relations with those close to him. The public hearing also referred to the Ombudsman for children and other experts. Article 120, however, provides for the failure to achieve personal relations only for those who have lived in the family with a child for a long time and during whom they have been caring for or have developed an emotional relationship with a child. Such a formulation restricts the right to have personal relations with him important and close persons who do not necessarily need to be persons living with a child in a family. Some relatives of a child who have not lived with a child may have a particularly close emotional relationship with a child, so stopping personal relationships with them can cause even greater harm to the child. Since it is a matter of personal relations between the child and family or parents, it is vital that this contact be maintained and established. One of the remarks that are highlighted during the consultation with the interested public, and we also want to highlight the problem of managing the property of the child. Unfortunately, we are witnessing situations where parents abuse or use the property of a child for good purposes, but due to different living circumstances, a poor assessment is not in the best interest and does not end up in the best interests of the child. The absence of a provision that sets out the amount to which parents can independently dispose of the property of a child without the court’s approval shall, first and foremost, lead to the child and the child being damaged most frequently in those proceedings. This second part of the law relating to adoption will be addressed by counterpart Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62277	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about children, we need to cover two more important areas, which are adoptions and custody. We all agree that the adoption process should be facilitated, we often talk about a large number of children in institutions, but we also talk about a large number of people who want to adopt children. According to the draft law, when it comes to adoptions, a newspaper is being introduced, which is that the social care centre will place a child in the family of the most suitable potential adoptor for up to 6 months in order to assess whether the adoption will be in line with the child's well-being. I wonder in whose interest is the child's probationary accommodation that is not limited to anything? People who deal with adoptions in centres are already talking about the practice of potential adoptors who are fosterers, who bring children back as though they were a slave with a mistake. How many times can a child be returned and an even bigger question about how such a decision will affect the child? The test accommodation is considered a very bad solution because it allows the child to go from one test accommodation to another without providing any sanctions for it. The applicant calls for the interests of the child, but in this way directly violates these interests. Furthermore, when we talk about adoptions, I would like to refer to an article that speaks about who cannot adopt a child. It is so good that it cannot be done by a person who is deprived of parental care, who is deprived of his or her ability and whose behavior and qualities so far suggest that it is not desirable to entrust her with parental care about the child. However, I think that this part should also respect the proposals made by the Ombudsman for children and add that this cannot be a person against whom the criminal proceedings are under way or who is legally convicted of sexual acts or a criminal offence against life and the body, against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, and against marriage, family and youth, a person who has been found guilty of domestic violence and a person who has been given a measure of family legal protection, of the right to live with and raise a child. I would also briefly refer to the participation of the child, parents, and other persons in the process, more specifically to the position of the child in the process. There is a problem that the proposed provisions could be interpreted as a child's obligation to participate in a procedure that is not in accordance with a convention which knows this right as a child's right to choose rather than its obligation. In general recommendation No. 12. The Committee on the Rights of the Child stands out as a necessary condition for the exercise of the right of the child to participate in child-related procedures. A child's expression of opinion cannot be imposed as an obligation, a child must have the right to choose and be given the opportunity to give up at any time of the proceedings. It should also not provide for a age limit as a assumption that the child is expressing his opinion. Decisions offered in the proposal deviate from this request for a convention, thus speaking in a court procedure referred to in Article 360 on determining the child's opinion as a procedural action and imposing an obligation on the judge to speak personally to a child who was 14 years of age. The Convention on the Rights of the Child does not determine age, but the Convention on the Rights of the Child speaks of age and maturity, or the participation and willingness of the child to cooperate, his volunteering, his choice, and not his obligation. As regards measures to protect the rights and welfare of the child, it is also known that in order to protect the child’s interests, it is sometimes necessary to prohibit the contact of parents with the child or otherwise regulate them in order to avoid possible difficulties and misunderstandings on how they are maintained, especially when parents insist on them. Here is also a good proposal that we received from the Ombudsman for children who proposes that the social care centre undertake to temporarily resolve the issue of meeting and socializing or banning the child in case of an emergency separation from the family. There is concern about the proposal that the emergency detachment measure ceases to apply if the court or the welfare centre does not act within the specified deadlines. The deadlines should certainly be disciplined but it should not be prescribed that the measure ceases to apply if the competent authorities do not comply with their obligation within the prescribed time limit. Speaking of deadlines, I'd like to draw attention to the urgency of the course. We're talking about urgency and we're extending the maintenance schedule and the first hearing by 15 days to 30 days. It's unclear why we're extending the deadline. It should remain the current 15-day decree. Finally, it is necessary to mention part of the child’s surrender. These days, we are witnessing some cases that have taken up space in the media and refer to the child's surrender by court's decision. Sometimes it's hard to judge which side is right. And in this procedure, children are the most likely to suffer, and those underage women who are not legally able to decide where they will be staying from their parents. It's a great responsibility for people who work in welfare centres and courts. It would be good, therefore, to set up a law on youth courts to provide that, with judges who handle family matters, family departments in municipal courts are particularly educated professional associates. I would like to conclude that the law is incomprehensible, too wide, I have 557 articles that are hard to read and even harder to understand. The existing law had to be developed and ensured by the application of existing provisions that did not exist Thank you. [[Intruder: Bring an end to the debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62278	Thank you. First we'll go to the replicas to show our colleague, Roksandić. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62279	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Roxandić, I'm glad you noticed some of the good side of the law, but I would specifically refer to your two claims. First, you talk about it, and now, in final terms, my colleague Banic has said the scope of the law. So, I agree that the most common thing is to freak out, so as far as the law goes, it's bad. But precisely because of what you were talking about, so the family is an extremely sensitive thing that penetrates all spheres of human life. And that's why, and in accordance with the practice of our courts that you also mentioned yourself who are often inconsistencies, missing persons, and so on, I think this is exactly what needs to be regulated. So to avoid any possible misunderstandings about the law and to leave as little as possible in some airless space that can then be misused and all in favor of the child's protection above all. At least that's my interpretation. You also mentioned family centers. We heard a lot about family centers when we talked about the Social Care Act and you talked about teaming them up. There are excellent examples of centers for social, sorry, family centers that work well but you also have family centers that only have directors. So I ask you if such family centers can then service quality needs that have just been established. The ministry's task is to ensure the same quality of family centre services throughout Croatia, and therefore I think their accession to social care centres as departments that will therefore continue to exist independently and deal with what they are founded for can only contribute to their quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62280	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62281	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic, the number of articles does not mean that the law will be easier to implement because this law too, and this law provides for a mass of sublegal acts, regulations. Sometimes these rules, if they get a lot more done in time as a sublegal act than you do in law enforcement, that's what I'm talking about. And as for family centers, yes, the fact that some family centers have one or two employees and some are well teamed up. Well, that's why I've mentioned several times that these facilities should be strengthened. And who's that on? You said it yourself at the Ministry. Do you think the family centers will be strengthened if they become part of the welfare center? Not a colleague, Hajdukovic, because he will stay at the centre by side again and that the same people who work at the social care centre will only occasionally do these jobs which are not good, that is exactly not good. That's why we're showing this fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62282	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62283	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, colleagues Roksandić and you talked about mediation and in that part let's agree that this is good, that the draft provides for mediation, but it is predicted that they will implement bodies under the Social Care Centre cap which is contrary to the very idea of mediation that must be independent and impartial. That's the first thing. Secondly, we know that social care centres have not been sufficiently teamed up and qualified for employees who are now saying who should be doing it. And now the spectacular education of mediators is announced, and it is not clear who they will be, what a professional and professional profile, and whether such a complex thing can be done in such a short time. It's a key issue until 1.7.2014, that's a question. And the third thing that's still coming to this is that it's at the Social Care Act in the afternoon. Family centers that have been, in some ways, key to these matters of individual approach and prevention are being abolished, etc. I think these are things that are not clear enough and require special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62284	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62285	Well, here's my colleague Milinkovic, and I'd like to point out again from this last one of yours. Family centers were a good thing in personal practice, the practice of the Sisak Family Centre, which was really not very teamed up, and should be teamed up, but it worked very well and was very recognizable in these family relationships, both in education and in collaboration with associations and with the Social Care Centre. He has to be connected to the welfare center, but I don't agree with him being part of the welfare center. As far as mediation is concerned, I find it hard to believe what is said, that these educations will really help the mediators, that they will be persons who may be employed at the welfare center, but that the team that works at the social care center, who will deal with mediation, must remain independent. It's not to believe that people will be influenced by who and what. That's why I agree, the mediation is necessary, but I've noted that there's a lot of uncertainty in this situation right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62286	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62287	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Members, in your debate, you mentioned the Ombudsman to the children, and you listed all those remarks that he made in his reports. Among other things, the problem of abuse of children's rights in the face of parent associations, then the problem is the decommissioning or victims of children in divorce cases, lack of supervision of care, long stay in institutions etc., etc. I agree that's the problem. You also said that the law needs to be understood by the general public. Both you and I belong to the general public and I would say that I understand it in a different way than you do, but it is more important for me that the law understands the profession because the expertise of this law is actually a weapon, or mechanism in which it will act, a mechanism for protection or protocol in action. When you look at the social care centers themselves, all the social workers who work in these centres are actually this mechanism of how they will be treated in the protection of children's rights. So I'll only tell you one article, and that's an article 103 that speaks, actually solves the problem in the practice of the welfare center. In fact, it is known that very often in procedures they went to a child’s home or foster home according to an article in the Social Care Act, based on a statement that the parent could not materially care for the child, and in this way the child would actually be placed in a home or foster home, and sometimes it is often forgotten about such a child. However, we now have a deadline of 6 months, so in that time the centre is obliged to follow the family of the child and see if the family has any capacity to care for the child, if not, then the parents are clearly said to be responsible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62288	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62289	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues Bonačić, so the profession should understand and implement the law, and so do you and I. And when I talk about the general public, family relations are something about all of us, every man in Croatia, or every man in every society. So it must be understood for all because man must first be understood, for man must first understand some law that he may seek protection under that law. So he's not just meant for the profession, he's meant for all of us. As for this article 103, which you cited and wanted to highlight the importance of the welfare center, if I understood correctly. Even now, if there was a breach in the implementation when the child was placed in a home, whether the centre would follow or not, but now the colleagues are the same centers, it's all up to you again and we're back to the man, the one who enforces the law, the one who works, the one who's at the welfare center. I've made a lot of contact with our House of Verbin for carefree children in Sisak. So there's people at the welfare center who took care of 50 kids, now they're much less placed there, thank God it's less that children go into foster homes, into adoption because it's certainly a better form for children otherwise. So it shouldn't have been strictly prescribed. I agree that these six months commits now, but on every one of those employees of the Social Care Center says that he must conduct surveillance of what is happening, whether the parent is coming to visit, whether the parent is asking for a child or not to ask for a child.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62290	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62291	Dear colleague Roksandić, you spoke the same about the relationship between mates for child care. We're traditionally more conservative, patriarchal society which I don't think is a big feature especially in the eyes of judges and judges. When it comes to decisions on who will take care of children or children after divorce. This law foresees the equality of father and mother in parental care, and that is one of the best newspapers in this law, because in a patriarchal, conservative society it is perfectly normal for a woman to follow the stove and take care of children. But then there's the unfair loss of those fathers who want to care and who are good at taking care of children, and we know, I know a lot of fathers who want to take care of children and I think that law already has my affection for that law. The establishment of paternity is much more logical and much better solved than in the old law. In the old law, there really was a trick-or-treating solution. This is where that mistake is corrected. You've talked about it, it's about indiscretion and insanity, and it's actually more debate. This is a good thing he's normal, that he's been clarified, and I've heard before that he's unspeakable. If there are indiscretions, there may be a need to remove them, but one of the few laws I try to make more precise, even more precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62292	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62293	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I will not respond to this second part of the madness because I already said that when I was responding to my colleagues and colleagues before that. But I want to tell you something. I fully agree with you that father and mother equality during divorce and otherwise child care after divorce must be equal. As traditional society as we are, I don't think it's going to violate any family relationships or the concept of family as a family in our society. However, I agree fully with you when you say that we must prepare everything, and I want to tell you first of all the judicial authorities. Those who practice family law so I keep mentioning that education and conductivity. We need to educate our judges not to read this legal provision and say. I ruled that the child belonged to the mother after the divorce, because it would be better for the child. I think they make a lot of mistakes. And in that case, I won't mention it because I don't know all the cases, but in a few cases, I think that's exactly what the courts were wrong about. Also, what you're saying is that, in the recognition of paternity and in the solution to the recognition of paternity, it's much better settled in this law. I told you we've made too much of a commitment to welfare centers again. I keep mentioning it and waiting to see what happens this afternoon in the debate with the Social Care Act, and I know what it is, what's going to happen. Because social care centres as long as they are central institutions that have to worry about this because otherwise, family relations especially in these disturbed family relationships that we are now talking about social care centres won't be able to handle all this. What happens in a year, two when we fail, I doubt it. Here's what I have to show you right now, I doubt that by the next year, we'll be able to team up all the welfare centers, except for what they're doing right now, that they'll be able to deal with these big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62294	Thank you very much. Marin Jurjevic, a replica of the exhibition of counterpart Martine Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62295	My colleague Banić, if I understand you correctly, you are against the institution of the trial accommodation of the child. You see, I think that behind the walls of the apartment there are many different home maniacs, unlived Tarzans, babarogs, cheaters and pervs of all possible categories, and that this institute was introduced precisely so as to at least put an obstacle to getting their hands on such children as objects, as objects of their experience. I mean, you know what? We can be very deceived and careful never enough when it comes to making decisions in which family and with whom the child will live. Because unfortunately, there are a lot of sad fates for kids we know that have fallen into the hands of the most different types of guys, say, free maniacs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62296	Reply to the replica Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62297	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jurjevic, I find it hard to believe that foster parents who have been waiting for years to get a chance to have a child, that they are Tarzans and similar to what you called them today. What I can say is that a large number of youngsters are really waiting for adoption, and that years are the biggest problem. If we in the trial room allow one child to stay with another for six months, and again with another for six months, it will grow older under quotes and become more and more difficult to adopt. I mean, that way we can expect someone to come back one day because they won't have blue eyes or curly hair. Personally, I don't think the test accommodation is good for the child and it's not in the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62298	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62299	Your colleague Banic, you say, and finally establishing that this bill is unsettled and at the same time you say it's too widespread and you say it's incomprehensible. His overexpansion is precisely in the pursuit of being as specific as possible. To succeed and in some ways predict all life situations because living in the family is exactly the complexity of this relationship, especially preventing unwanted relationships and its great regulation. And there's nothing controversial about it. You say the law is incomprehensible. However, you spoke very closely. It is not possible to speak in detail and all speakers have said in detail that the law is incomprehensible. The law is understandable and sends a good message. The law is understandable, but the law really has no understanding of hate, of balling, especially of the balling of its own children who think that in the name of love they can do whatever they want and then the scene of hate. Like Leo Tolstoy said that all the happy families resemble each other and that each one is unhappy in its own way. And this bill of law is precisely that they are the weakest, and these are often women, and most often children are those accidents especially in divorce as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62300	Replication response, Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62301	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Antičević-Marinović, I would also not say that the law has a large number of articles, i.e. 557 of them, to guarantee that the law will be good and that the law included absolutely everything that was necessary. What I can say is not my invention that the law is too wide, that it is not understood, a large number and experts have come forward on this law and made remarks. Here, I can say that there were about 290 objections to this law. For example, the Ombudsman for children made 103 remarks of which the vast majority was rejected, more than 60 of them. Well, since you disagree with me that I'm wrong when I say that the law is not understood, I don't think the law is understandable enough for an ordinary citizen because we see that all, almost all institutions dealing with children, family issues have reacted and invested a large number of objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62302	On behalf of Vice-President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62303	Just a few clarifications and information for further discussion. Mrs. Roksandic spoke here about the fact that the centres are overloaded and that they need to be relieved. I absolutely agree with her in that part. Here's what the Family Law has done. It's four jobs they've been doing so far. They won't have to do those four jobs anymore. On the other hand, we are planning a reform that should be disbursing the centres by the end of the year, which means that the cash charges are going towards other centres, one new centre, the Money Center. Which means that most of the work that the centres are doing right now, which is writing a solution for cash compensation, should actually go to some others. Mrs. Banic, you were talking in principle about something we signed and what we had to do. So, we have signed the European Convention on Contacts, which is therefore above the legislation, and which already stipulates that children must have contacts and some association with the general, therefore with their grandparents, so to all those who are part of their wider family. On the other hand, the European Convention on adoption also speaks of this adaptation. This adjustment is extremely important because it can enable us to help our child to adapt in those six months but also to new adoptors. This seems to me primarily the goal of helping both adoptors and children in the adoption process. Because neither child is a toy that you can just put into your family, nor parents must be so ready and able to cope with all the problems that often children who go into adoption carry with them. This is some kind of protective mechanism so we don't get a situation of one now, but a girl who is, for example, a girl. She testified in her life at the first adoption conference that we had last year about how she was brought back from three foster families and how she was eventually adopted into a family that had also broken down the adoption and returned to her home. So that kind of trauma that no one wants and that both foster parents and adoptors eventually went into breaking up that adoption left really big traumas on that girl. In order for absolutely no such break-up to happen to us, I think that this adjustment phase is exclusively intended for this, and by what the waist so far could say, in fact, most of these adoptions in those six months will end with this final solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62304	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62305	Dear Minister, I agree with you on the adoption of a process that lasted for years and which should be made quite certain to make it easier for children to be even more secure. I'd like to warn you of one fact, the law is not sufficiently clear. The other day Mr. Stazic spoke on the Committee on the Constitution about the purity of the Constitution. Let's say you have a word in this second law that we're going to talk about activation today, so you have a presumption, why you have no idea, etc. There is so much illogicalness that has been taken from some legal jargon that has no place in this law, which someone has said before, should be understood to everyone in order to know what rights they have. So many aliens that are completely unnecessary. I'm not one of those cleaners, but I don't think activation exists. There is no such word in the Croatian dictionary, and it is used. Find her, she's gone. Tell the lecturer to learn some Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62306	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman and colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62307	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with fellow Members, immediately at the outset of course the HNS will support this bill with several notes which will be made more clear by colleague König. However, we believe that this is an important step in the right direction, but what we are all aware of, which shows also the situation of the still existing law and the many changes he has experienced, and ultimately this debate today, and in fact the fact that this law that you are proposing is so extensive and so large that it is a highly sensitive, extremely important matter that needs to be monitored over and over again. This is one of the new laws that will need to be constantly monitored, constantly adapt to international standards, new knowledge and methods that are almost daily in various segments covering events and domestic practice and knowledge such as: and, in particular, if I may point out the observations and suggestions of the Ombudsman for children, our opinion and my opinion is that the Croatian Ombudsman has an extremely important and valuable resource of knowledge of the accumulated and experience and rational approach to issues which he deals with in this regard. So it's safe to implement this law, it's one important ally, and this is one of those laws where we're going to have to have important allies in order to successfully implement it. What should be the ultimate goal of these actually permanent adjustments to the promotion of this law that I hope will not stand here now is to achieve at one point the full equality of all citizens before this truly important and often fatal law but it is something that is just waiting for us somewhere in the future. I'd like on behalf of the HNS Club to highlight a few details, a few elements that seem important to us. One hastiness in resolving family legal matters, the principle which we believe is deserved to take place in the opening provisions, so in all administrative and judicial and other procedures hastiness is, of course, an important principle. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we often play with our own time and especially in other people's times, but it seems that in the area covered by this law, hastening may be even more important because people here often find themselves especially when there are judicial disputes often in the most sensitive situations in which people and families can find a team as often as children are involved. So, the principle of haste is really something that is extremely important and it will be one of those things, but the predecessors emphasized it in the debate, it will be one of those things that will need really permanent training and monitoring how the law is implemented really analyzed and promoted just so that the principle of urgency in all these procedures and respects. We also support the introduction of legal protection of the family home as well as provisions concerning divorce especially for those where underage children exist, so counselling and mediation. That's what we're talking about. What makes us particularly happy is today's announcement by the esteemed vice president that the training in this regard has already begun and we really hope that the process will then begin very quickly and successfully. What we also like is the limited business ability of a child from the age of 14 as a transitional period to full business capacity. In this regard, I would like to highlight Article 86(2) of this bill, which prescribes that the child has the right to see and express his opinion in all the procedures in which his right is to be decided. We didn't really realize that it was prescribed as an obligation, but in any case we firmly support that the right is included in the law and we actually hope that in the implementation of all those cases, indeed, when it is possible and when that child, when the child expresses that desire and the intention that it will be allowed to in the least traumaticly possible way and least beneficial to his personal interests, will indeed express his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/it opinion, or his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/it opinion opinion within this dispute, receive adequate information of the dispute. We also support the more precise arrangement of parental care and the clearer division of personal rights, property management and representation of the child, so this more precise regulation in some way and the division of the same thing that seems to us to be a good procedure. A colleague Vuksic has already mentioned but it seems that we all these male fathers are particularly sensitive to this part, but the complexity of this law is also seen from the fact that it enters into one area where a relatively rare case is happening in our society, and this is a situation where men are extremely discriminated against at the moment, which is, therefore, the disputes after divorce, about custody, about the possibility of visiting and seeing a child. It's the same one of those things we're gonna have to follow closely. It is unfortunately the consequence of long-term bad, careless court practices that are played by human fates and human lives, and in that sense it is another element where this law really asks us not only to bring it here today, when conditions are created, but to really keep track of its implementation and its update in some way in relation to the reality in which we live. We also support a more precise arrangement of adoption procedures along with, of course, I can't stress it with the hope that we will come at least close to that utopia that all children who don't have parental care feel warmth and love at home and that all those people who can't get a child for these or those reasons can really feel that joy to have a child, it's also one reality that we all need not only as political power, not just as parties, but as simply as people with some kind of humanity we have to work and we need to follow that part of how it will be carried out and whether it will be successful. There's one detail in the law, but we're also hoping that in practice they'll come to life, that's the provision for calculating child restraint tables. This is something we hope to facilitate agreements and all those situations in which people unfortunately find themselves in a situation of divorce, and then there's a problem about that restraint, and then these problems are being dragged for years instead of some things that might already come to an end in advance. What we also support is the further setting up of family departments in courts and reforming the position of social care centres in procedures, which you also talked about today, so I won't take any longer than to take my colleague König all the time. So to conclude my part, it's really a very extensive law, it's a very big law, and it's about the law with which the job of the moment we bring it is just beginning and it's actually our key and fundamental message. This law will just begin to build and work on the moment when we bring it in, and in that sense we cannot afford you in a vault that is directly competent and we are all here regardless of the political colors we cannot afford almost one day of neglect about such an important law and an important topic. And now I leave the pay phone to my colleague, König. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62308	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As Coman announced, we would like to further improve this bill with certain proposals, as regards the provisions of adoption and recognition of paternity. As far as adoption is concerned, we absolutely support the provisions of laws that speed up the process, support and praise the procedures of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth who have recently made huge and many good steps, for example, made a register of potential adoptors, absolutely commending. But as far as adoption status is concerned, we have a proposal, and what counterpart Jerkovic has already said is on the trail. The provisions of the Family Law, in the section relating to the extramarital community, apply to the life union of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man who lasts at least three years, and shorter if a common child is born there. So single women and single men who have been in the community for at least three years make up an extramarital community. A child can be adopted by marriage mates together or a child can be adopted by one mate if the other mate is already a parent or foster child. A child can also adopt one mate with the consent of another mate, as can be adopted by a single person who is not married at all but not a common single woman and an unmarried man living in an extramarital community. In short, the right to adopt status in the Republic of Croatia has almost all but a common man and women living in an extramarital community. So this is where unless we complete the law, and I believe we will, it's about discrimination against extramarital communities. Therefore, the HNS Club proposes that we extend the right of adoption to both the extramarital communities and to our 97 thousand 772 citizens and fellow citizens who have said on the previous census that they live in an extramarital community. Let's give these changes a chance for them to adopt a child or children. As for the recognition of paternity and motherhood, we have two proposals to improve the provisions of the law. one refers to underage parents, and the other to persons with disabilities. As regards the business capacity of this bill, a huge step has been taken to improve the rights of persons with disabilities and most of the provisions are in line with the UN Disabilities Convention which requires, among other things, leaving the concept of custody and supporting persons with disabilities in making various life decisions. However, with regard to the recognition of paternity, this bill stipulates that fatherhood can recognise a full - age man deprived of his ability to do business with the approval of a custodian. Therefore, the proposed provision restricts the right of adult men to recognize paternity over their biological children or children without the consent of the guardians if they are deprived of their business abilities. This provision is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities because this international document requires that all persons with disabilities have the right to equal business capacity as all other citizens. If we do not amend the proposed provision, we actually put into the hands of the welfare centres responsible for the appointment of the guardians, which means that we put a biological parent in full dependence on their hands on their decisions. I note that by now, the Republic of Croatia has faced the problem of recognising paternity by a man of deprived business ability who ended up at the European Court of Human Rights. In the case of Kruškovic against Croatia, a violation of the right of the applicant to his private life was found by not allowing him to recognise paternity over his biological child because he was completely dependent on the Centre for Social Care, contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and against the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. We suggest that in the section relating to the recognition of fatherhood, words are deleted with the recognition of the guardian. Another confession concerns us, recognition of the paternity of underage parents. And here we think that further improvements can be achieved by erasing certain words in this case of parental approval. It's about cases where parents are underage and are able to understand the meaning of a paternity statement. This bill stipulates that they also need their parents' approval to do so. However, it is hard to expect, this also from experience tells and states the child’s legal guardian that parents will be very willing except in really rare situations to grant such approval. To make it impossible to determine the paternity of a child or to extend to the age of a child’s parent. And then it can take a long time to refer to a large part of the children born. Because data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health show that 5237 teenage girls have become pregnant in Croatia in the last three years and as many as 25 girls have been younger than 13 years. The same source shows that 40% of young couples benefit from any form of contraception and more than 1500 juvenile pregnancy per year and is not surprising. These data show more that it is necessary to introduce health care in our schools as soon as possible to avoid talking about civic education for other reasons. So, as far as underage parents are concerned, we agree with the Ombudsman for children who says that the approval of their parents in the paternity recognition process must not be primary or decisive. Since I am running out of time with these supplements but also with some that we will say in individual discussions, the HNS accepts and supports the Family Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62309	Thank you very much. Replies to my colleague Coleman's exposure. Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62310	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Coleman, I agree with you that this is an extremely important and sensitive matter. Of course, it should also be looked at in the time in which we live, in which more than 35% of the family has inexplicable existential problems. And I agree with the part where you talk about urgency, where you stress special urgency. I think so, but I'm very suspicious here. In fact, in the part where the family home is mentioned, where the court can determine the right of residence for one of the parents, we understand what is said, the question is, of course, how one parent will pay one parent's household if he doesn't have one for himself, that's one part. But another thing that is important, which will in some way challenge this haste, and it is proposed that the right of residence lasts for the longest time until the depravity of the co-ownership community of former spouses and, exceptionally, to the adulthood of children. Either way, it's either decomposition or adulthood. So it's a procedure that can go on seemingly far away, exhaust both parents, of course to additional difficulties. And I'm afraid that moment of haste won't honor the one you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62311	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62312	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Milinkovic, you have repeatedly said that you agree with me, so I agree with you, that you agree with me. And as for urgency, haste as a principle, it seems to me in this law that it has rightly obtained in some way a place in the initial moments of the law and thus is given to it in importance because it is precisely in order to avoid any delay in the initiation of procedures that are necessary in certain situations. It is clear that, unfortunately, some of the complex situations facing this law cannot be solved overnight. That's quite clear. It is more of a terrible importance that the principle of urgency be an integral part of the law, that what we can, what administrative bodies, judicial bodies, social care centres, police, so all those who will at some point be involved in that time that they can not spend in vain. That we don't have a waste of time, that we don't have that administrative lethargy that we're all very fond of, rather than that the whole system realizes that especially in such sensitive situations where children are often involved, in which people are often involved, unfortunately, in some difficult relationships and circumstances that we don't have time to lose, but that things should start immediately as they're prescribed and that they should be guided in the way they're prescribed without delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62313	A proud Sobol replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62314	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colman, I have responded to the replica in fact by wanting to support one piece and especially stress from your exposure and the problems that arise during the assignment, after the divorce of the custody, or whose care it is, who gets children to say so to the simplest mother or father. I'd like to warn you, in fact, from the attorney general's report on gender equality, for over 85% of the custody assignments went towards the mother last year and only 15% of the custody was given to the fathers. What is definitely why this is happening in our society, and this is why the Ombudsman emphasizes it through her report, which is that Croatian society is still so deeply traditional in the notion of the role of men and women, or fathers and mothers in our society, or in the life of a child. In fact, the whole system, including the judicial part and the social care centres, is somewhere where this long - standing rooting is going towards being more prone in many cases to assign children to the care of mothers rather than fathers. So I think that's one problem we're dealing with, he's not from today, he's long-term. And then, as a consequence, we actually have discrimination against fathers, or men who, in a very small number of cases, get custody of the child. But this time, I want to make another connection, as I've already done before. This discrimination can also be seen in the part where we talk about the use of parental leave where only 2% or 3% of fathers decide to take parental leave from mothers, and that is essentially the link between these two problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62315	Thank you. Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62316	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Sobol, I fully agree with you and thank you for your support. The common problem is not only the granting of custody in these percentages that you are talking about but then and after that it happens that fathers are cut off and for what is being assigned to them under quotes, so we have the next stage of this problem then which further strengthens the situation as traumatic for both father and children. But the fact is, you're absolutely right, in our subconscious actually as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia because you all know that who you've ever thought about is that if a divorce situation happens and... we all assume in advance that the mother, well then that's given, and then this is possibly some exception that really needs to be fought in various ways and needs to prove a variety of things to be assigned to the father. As far as parental leave is concerned, I agree with you, we also have a total disproportionateity. We are, in our own time, when I say HNS, we have proposed in our time and we try again to extract it from the naphthaline, to stimulate fathers to take leave so that, say, or leave can be extended if the father takes a mandatory part or can be increased in full, or may be given a full amount of compensation longer if the father takes a part of the parental leave as required. This seems to us then, we always find it better to stimulate and actually introduce some, moving some imbalances in society with certain stimulations and incentives to then just get used to it because it's hard, actually it's very difficult for a man to explain to the employer that he would go on maternity leave so that you have a whole series of discrimination and potential problems again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62317	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas to show of colleague König. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62318	Dear colleagues of König, you have rightly pointed out discrimination against the extramarital community in the adoption of children. There is no discrimination for any valid reason and I support you in your intention to make it quite certain in the second reading correct, but I would like to warn one good side of the law, another good side of the law, that is the relationship of grandparents and grandchildren to grandparents. In certain circumstances, grandparents are obliged to support their grandchildren or their grandkids, and it is now provided for in this law that when grandparents or grandkids took care of their grandchildren or their grandson that the principle of solidarity should be applied and that, under certain circumstances, their grandson, grandson or grandkids should take care of their grandparents when necessary. So I think it's another good part of this law. And over and over again the same thing, but it doesn't ring people a signal, it's all going on for a long time, it's going to last, it's going to last, it's going to take a long time, it's going to last, it's going to be justice, it's going to be justice, it's going to be justice, it's going to be justice, it's going to be justice, it's it's going to be justice, it's it's going to be bad, it's going to be criminally bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62319	Replication response, Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62320	Thank you very much. My colleague, thank you very much for your support in giving adoptive status and extramarital communities. It's a good thing you gave me a chance to say that they recognized and gave some of our countries in the European Union, for example. Iceland, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Slovenia and the United Kingdom are just some who gave it to extramarital communities and, with your support, believe in another law, we will allow our fellow citizens and fellow citizens in Croatia living in an extramarital community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62321	And Anna Comparic Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62322	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues of König, you said in your debate, as counterpart Vuksic, and also colleague Jerkovic, on behalf of the club, had just warned this segment to put an extramarital community in the adoptors. I really also want to just support you in this segment, i.e. I would like to ask, in some way, the promoter until the second reading to think carefully that this part of the adoptors is slightly changed until the second reading. Because I think that today in the situation in which we live and when we see that young people find it difficult to decide on marriage, but they live in an extramarital community, we also have to give these people the right to children and the right to become parents. And I'm just, as we can't lift two replicas, I just have to comment a little bit on the part about fathers, and I agree absolutely, I think that I, from personal experience, have a situation from my close surroundings where mothers are extremely manipulative to children, where today we have children who don't greet their fathers on the road just because mothers have done great manipulation because the children were small, when the parents got divorced, and in fact, I respect these fathers, and they don't do circus of that, and they don't drag themselves through the courts, but they just retreated, and unfortunately they've retired from the life of the child, and that's something that needs to be taken into account very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62323	On behalf of the motionary, Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62324	Just two things. First of all, when it comes to courts and this haste, we have an article 347 that has tried to make the court story a little more serious. So for the first time we have one provision in which we have defined if the judge breaks deadlines in accordance with all these articles that we have said here must be hasty, he is obliged to inform the President of the Court. So we don't have many mechanisms in the judiciary, you know that they are protected, untouchable, so this was one step forward to try how serious the justice system is. If I tell you that, unfortunately, we have children currently in the process, so parents deprive parents of parental care, which means that this is the first insight that a child has to adopt. We have judges who haven't called a hearing in a year. So it's a year of child's life someone knowingly or unconsciously stole from them. But this is the maximum we can do, because unfortunately we can't do much. Perhaps now that you're changing the Constitution, you can only do something about it. And secondly, as a minister, I always try to talk about my parents and never speak to my mother or father. But basically what you're saying here is true. It's life. Most fathers cannot see their children or have no contact with them. That's why we in this law have changed the logic of the law a little, and that's what we're going to have to work a lot with the Social Care Centres to change that logic too. So here's the burden of proving to the mother that the father is bad for the child. If a person lives 15 years in a marriage or 20 that father is not an abuser, then they have not just decided to divorce. Why isn't he suddenly a parent for his child? So now the father has to explain why he's good. Now we've put the burden on the mother. She now, unless she wants to agree on joint parental care, must prove in court why this father is bad for his child and then show how he manipulates. So someone can't live with you for 15 years in marriage and be good and suddenly when you get divorced then he's bad, then he's the black devil, then he's the worst in the world. It's not! He still has his rights. The fact that you cannot distinguish your emotions, your injury or anything else, any other feeling of him being still a father to his child and having the right primary child has the right to communicate with another parent is something that will be a burden on those who claim that another parent is not good. And one more thing. I think the mechanism of changing the decision in those custody moments is something that could be a mechanism for introducing order among those who really manipulate their own children. Because it's actually a crime against your own child and it's the only way we can protect the primary child.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62325	We have replicas. First Branko Vuksic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62326	Dear Minister Opačić, I didn't think this could be dealt with by law in court, that's clear. But you said one good sentence. The courts and judges are untouchable. It's a dogma. Anything that's untouchable falls within the dogma. First of all, judges and courts must not be untouchable, court proceedings are untouchable. The reform of the judiciary should take a far deeper step towards judicial reform than the laws do, and I repeat it day by day, day by day. The foundations of the Croatian state have been seriously violated because the judiciary is functioning badly. So, fundamental reform in the judiciary. Then it'll help this law of yours that's a great support we've told you about another reading. Yes, the father is unsuitable, the man becomes an inappropriate father when he's bad for a woman. If he's bad for a woman, doesn't mean he's bad for kids, too, bad for quotes. Therefore, I think that this debate also indicates that we see and feel very much alike and that we have good assumptions, I say if problems are solved in the judiciary that the family works much easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62327	New replica and Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, ma'am, I'm the same as my colleague Vuksic was talking about this very moment of court's haste and, of course, your abstention regarding solving the same. But I do believe that there are opportunities in the law itself where it can be slowed down, and I want to stress it in this place. Before, for example, one moment that is very important to me, which says that if married friends who have shared underage children are divorcing by suing, mandatory counselling is carried out by the competent Centre for Social Care, and if they are divorcing the agreed family centers. So I'm asking why? I think what makes that difference and why the family centers are of course afternoon we'll see in this second debate, I think they've lost their significance and that's too bad. Second, second thing. If both spouses or one of them do not approach the first family mediation meeting under Article 3 of this Law, neither mate can press charges for divorce before the six - month period. I believe that these deadlines and six months to make it very difficult in the very law, with this moment you spoke of from court practice. Here are the things to keep in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62329	And we continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS, Jadranka Kosor will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62330	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with his associates. It could be short and long. In fact, it's a law that really enters the lives of each of us, one can say from life to death, and that's why it's a good thing that this debate today seems to be devoid of politicizing, that we're trying to talk about concrete proposals. And that is why I suggest that no remark that will be made in this debate be understood in any other way than our insistence that the law be even better. Today it's very difficult for many families, so today we're talking about family law, we're talking about families, we're talking about each and every one of us, about our families. For many families, it is extremely difficult especially for those who are poor, especially families where a person has lost his job or all the adult members have lost their job or can't find him, families who, unfortunately, are disintegrated daily, to one parent family. It is particularly difficult in this crisis for one parent family, so where mother or father live with children, where indeed many single - parent families survive from day to day. There's been a lot of talk here today about protecting fathers. Of course, I certainly stand for it, but I think that through this debate we should look for an answer to the question, and we will not find it because it is impossible, how and what to do with fathers, and unfortunately there are many, who, after a divorce of marriage, completely neglect their parental duty. There are such and mothers, of course the fathers are unfortunately more. So we would need to find answers to these questions by law. Of course, it is difficult for those families who are here in the divorce process and these moments today, and that is why I would like to warn you that in all our discussions, we must make sure that the Family Law is concentrated first and foremost on the welfare of children. Thus, those who in no way can defend themselves and who in no way can guard their dignity, or their future, if we do not make it possible for them by law. Especially in those families where, unfortunately, for 24 hours, violence, family violence, often still and in the 21st century, remains behind closed doors as something that is a family matter and something that does not concern society, or the state. So anything we install into the new law must be concentrated on the best interests of children and children because it is the most exposed repeat and most sensitive group. Of course, no law, however well arranged, will primarily help families to have more love or understanding, or to have more support, or to be in harmony. That's what I would say, ultimately, is a matter of happiness, that is, taking up every family member, that the family really be the place of comfort, so where there is peace and peace and love and certainly support. I would therefore like to make some very concrete suggestions, or remarks. I fall among those who think that it was not necessary to pass a whole new law, that it could have been uninterrupted because the Family Law is such a law that is constantly breathing in accordance with life and changes in society and that it should have been completed and completed, and that everyone has warned that the law really is being implemented. It is not implemented in many segments and will not be carried out unfortunately in many segments and when we pass a new law until we can ensure that all those who are obliged to implement the Family Law, especially our social care centres, with all praise and a deep gift to people who sometimes work there in impossible conditions, are compensated for and lovingly compensated for what the state unfortunately did not provide for them. However, we must do everything possible to make the practice change every day. So, to enforce the laws. And the best written laws that are not implemented or partially implemented or implemented are actually bad laws in the end. So, you should try to make sure that the legal gaps we've seen, which I've seen in this bill certainly mattered to go into two readings, it would have been terrible if it had gone through an emergency procedure and I believe that no one had thought of it. And of course there's no assessment, it's important in this law, precisely because we're talking about efficiency of implementation, there's no estimate of how much law enforcement will ultimately cost. Law enforcement costs, mediation costs. Everything that has to be done in all the procedures that the Family Law is talking about, of course, costs. Hence, very specific remarks and suggestions regarding the family right to a property that represents the marital property of marriage mates, therefore, representing a family home. Well-conceived, however, the remarks I make on behalf of the club go in the direction of the fact that if a child's confidence criteria are a criterion for determining who will live in this property called the family home may unfortunately cause further manipulation. What we always meet, especially when it comes to determining who a child will live with the future of that child or children after divorce, is unfortunately, in many cases manipulation. Parents of course manipulate, manipulate children, manipulate families, and this can open up additional space for manipulation because of course it doesn't matter whether you solve the housing issue or not. Furthermore, Article 46(4) discusses the conditions for living space to meet the basic housing needs of children and parents under a special regulation governing social care rights. So, unsettled to the end because we are referring to another regulation and everything that has to be arranged for a family home has to be arranged right up to the end and completely in the Family Law. Also, a provision that states that provisions governing real-legal and mandatory legal relations are applicable to the marital property if this law is not otherwise defined, unclearly until the end of the work. I suggest we work on it, it's gonna be hard to interpret this provision. What's also a big problem is the space of different interpretations, it's always the worst law you can interpret in different ways, or those who get a job to say a particular case, can interpret differently from case to case. So it's specifically about Article 38. I'm going to move to another reading to work. I've already said something well imagined about the mediators, and it's gonna be hard to put it into practice. It is therefore necessary to do everything that no letter in this law will be a dead letter on paper but that it can really be implemented to the end. Provisions relating to the participation of a child over 14 years of age in the mandatory consultation procedure. I don't think it's a good provision, to drag in a child who, anyway, every child whose parents are getting divorced and whose family is visible or invisible at that time is falling apart, many children find it extremely difficult to experience these moments regardless of whether there was violence in the family, whether there was a complete break-up in the family, or if there really was an agreement on that divorce. So, you should completely and ultimately deprive the child of any trauma. Of course, a child is every person up to the age of 18, but a child who is 14 is really, really a real child. And finally having personal relationships with a child. Thus, it is said that a parent living with a child is obliged to refrain from any behavior that would make it difficult for another parent to have personal relations with a child and, of course, it is said that such parents who would make it impossible to meet another parent with a child could be able to afford damage to another parent. But that's exactly the set of provisions that can enable really real manipulation because it's with parents who are irresponsible, who don't answer, and then they report, with parents who are drug addicts, who are heavy alcoholics, who are gamblers, who live in every sense of inappropriate life, and then here after 6 months of one day, this other parent who doesn't trust because he knows what's going on, because he's previously taken the kid to the inn and left him there alone and was with him all night, left him in a smoky space, which then that parent who takes care of the child should do, let go, or bring himself into a situation to get him here at the end of the frames to compensate for the damage. So it's something I understand the intensity, I understand that on the other hand there's always manipulation, that there's always those parents who, above the back of a child, want revenge against another spouse first, and then, of course, some to choose some benefit and that's reality and that's life. So, I suggest that, in particular, this series of articles that discuss a parent who must refrain from any conduct, of course, should be restrained, but of course, there should be circumstances or concerns about what life is daily. Here are some of the remarks that seem most important to me and which are mostly concentrated on the child's well-being, so I suggest that the real promoter consider, to consider further all the remarks made by the Ombudsman's office for children, so that, until the second reading and these provisions that were most discussed here, we further strengthen, I certainly support this HNS club's adoption initiative. So if people who live together, who can provide the child with the warmth of the home and of course the existence and of course the schooling and everything that life in the family means, they have to get that opportunity, no reason not to get it there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62331	Thank you. We have a report of five replicas. The first one will be presented by Ana Komaračić Devcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Kosor, in your opening part, you said that, of course, every family in their own way is difficult for them, especially for poor families and especially for one parent poor family. I'm with you in that segment in any case absolutely agreeing, so somehow it's always easier in two. I agree that it is much more difficult for one parent and, in this context, I want only one thing to point out, and that is that this afternoon we are going to discuss the Social Care Act and the Social Care Act has just recognised two categories of people, or two categories of people, who are the most difficult and therefore single families and single people. So, it is the Social Care Act that we are going to discuss this afternoon, which will not be in direct transmission that recognizes these two categories as the two categories that are the most vulnerable groups in Croatia today. And one more detail, we talked about parents, fathers and mothers who are better, is no better. I really don't think sex can determine a good parent, has good fathers, has good mothers but has bad fathers and bad mothers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62333	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62334	I agree because there are good and bad people, honest and dishonest people, and then they're both bad and good parents, because they love or don't like people, so I think that's what it's all about. And that it is extremely important to talk about family in this broader way, therefore, beyond the standards themselves, to bear witness to both facts and research, unfortunately, that many children who grow up in families where violence reigns and become violent themselves, and that is certainly the fact that they should take care of. And I agree with you that the Family Law should be observed in conjunction with many other laws, and I did not think in any way that the difficult life of single-parent families is a guilty state, but it is the fact that with one child or two or three is particularly difficult to live alone, it is also difficult because of the prejudices that a single-parent family experiences in the environment. It is always viewed in another way, so our efforts must go on but must go on to ensure that the state takes special care not only of the family but of those families that are particularly difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62335	Second replica, the esteemed Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Kosor said that there are many fathers who neglect after the divorce of their children, it's absolutely true and I volunteered for the replica because I don't want what I said to turn out to be apology in any way to fathers or critics of mothers, but it's actually convenient and a proposal of this very law because what seems to me as the value of this law is that he recognizes some imbalances and some injustices in society and that he's trying to address these imbalances and injustices and, of course, I agree with the need for some things to be further polished, we will also see in applying that they are constantly being followed but it seems to me as one of the good things of this law. And another thing you said about domestic violence in our country, you said about that, often stays behind closed doors and no one reacts. Unfortunately, we live in a country where a few months ago in Zadar, women were beaten to death who were not behind closed doors, but was lashed on the balcony and no one reacted. It's actually symbolic in some way important in the context of a law like this that includes a wide range of situations where people can find themselves. It's not enough just to have the perfect one even if it's the perfect norm. But that's why I said in my presentation, this law will require continuous, hard and hard work daily because all participants must be aware of their rights but also of their responsibilities and obligations, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62337	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62338	Of course, every announcement is bad actually because every prejudice is bad, so fathers are bad in marriages where divorce comes, so fathers are a bad figure and mothers are great figures, of course not, just before I talked about it. But it is a fact that especially in small children it is good that they are with mothers, it is good that mothers should not in any way and that this should certainly be sanctioned by children to get revenge on their fathers because it is equally important for each child to have a mother and father, we discussed it here once upon a time. As far as domestic violence is concerned, therefore, my view is that definitely domestic violence, especially in some areas in Croatia, did not experience social condemnation, the condemnation of the majority, that it is still considered to be a right of family and that in this family the woman is less valuable and less important and there are actually calls of new violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62339	The third line is the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62340	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I think the grumble of your debate is right and you have devoted it to manipulation of negative feelings, you mention revenge and hatred, but you have concluded that no new law was needed. But precisely because this bill puts the whole thing on other ground, on other grounds. So first of all, partnership, disabling, suppressing such manipulation, which goes directly to the children's hands, so it goes in favour of protecting children. What you are saying is whether and whether it is possible to continue abuse, however, this law is why a new law was needed because it gives new duties and new powers to institutions, but also to participants and those who live in the family. Why, and this very bill of law, we've already had something in the past, children are no longer pertinence, the emphasis is that children are right. There's a reference to their duty here and there, parents primarily have a duty to children. So these are new items that also lead to a new philosophy of the modern family where the state is obliged to just protect the weakest and not allow for diverse manipulations. I think that's exactly how you protect your family. I note once again the devastating fact you're probably talking about it seems to me something and you're telling me from the police report a dramatic fact that out of over a hundred murders that occurred last year more than 50% were in the family. Therefore this Family Law is for the family, who talks about family problems, he talks about family, not who puts them under the carpet and who even considers those who talk about... families to attack your family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, the family was often attacked from the inside. And protection and the role of the state is to prevent such abuses and attacks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62341	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62342	This information is correct about the domestic violence you're talking about. It should be added that the most common victims of these violences are women, or domestic violence, that they are women. So we have an absurd situation here throughout the year that it turns out that a woman is safer on the road, on the street, at three o'clock in the night than she is sometimes in her own family and that's a devastating fact. You were also talking about the manipulations I was talking about. Unfortunately, manipulators are extremely inventive. So those who want at all in life, not only now related to family law and child care,... They're extremely imaginary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they always jump into every legal norm, unfortunately. That's why I think we need to further re-realise them, work them out so that these manipulations can make their work impossible and their... As far as the institutions are concerned, I agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, institutions must, of course, have working conditions and institutions should be continuously monitored. So from the welfare center to the courts. Because we are often witnesses, I recently mentioned a verdict in the case of domestic violence where a woman sued her husband for 20 years of rape in marriage which is a felony, but the judge ruled that the woman did not bring anyone to testify in court, that she was permanently and systematically raped and freed the rapist and the bully from any responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62343	The next replica honours Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62344	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, when you say it wasn't necessary to pass a new law, then I must tell you that it is in conflict with what it says in the strategic document brought by the government that you led. In 2011, as I believe you remember, the Croatian Parliament adopted the document, and it rightly states that the family law did not meet the expectations, that it completely failed, that it did not create assumptions for the full protection of children and persons under custody. And there was almost no segment of family law that was not listed and in which changes had to be made. However, as priorities, they stated that there is a need to improve the provisions relating to custody, adoption, to correct the regulatory disadvantages that go to harm children, type of parental care and restraint, recognition of paternity, family mediation, etc. So, you were prime minister and you thought at the time that you needed to go into the reform procedures of family law. Now that they're really happening, you don't think they were necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62345	The replica matches Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62346	Yes, it is true, therefore, and it is good that there is this document where all shortcomings are indicated. Of course, these shortcomings are related to some, as you know, institutions, or the implementation of family law. So it's not written anywhere to pass a new law, and I don't think I should still think, but that's an opinion that I'm entitled to, of course. It's the ones you mentioned you'd further edit. To further edit and comply with the practice that you have mentioned yourself is not good. Nothing in law building would change. It means that some of the provisions have been changed and upgraded nothing in the structure of the law itself would change. But now we have a new bill, so we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62347	Branko Vuksic will present the last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62348	Dear colleague Kosor, you were talking about how there's a lot of violence behind closed doors. However, I felt that we had Googled the violence that was visible. A few days ago, I read a text describing how a famous French couple had a scene that lasted 26 minutes at a restaurant. For 26 minutes, a photographer recorded violence and reviled himself, reviled himself in the text over that violence, where his husband was strangling his wife. And he says it took 26 minutes. And now the trial has begun. But he's not a photojournalist accused of watching the drowning for 26 minutes. So it's become a show, unfortunately, and we approach violence like that. The other thing you said, you said the law won't provide any more love, no more understanding in the family, absolutely certain it won't. However, if people were to be completely moral, honest, highly ethical, just law almost should not, courts should not. Laws are passed because of bad people. And unfortunately, here we speak in the Law, we assume how to make it possible to eliminate as much of the bad as possible and to leave children especially to good people, whether it's a man or a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62349	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62350	I agree, and that's why I said that we need to focus more on the law and actually look at almost every provision whether it's in the best interests of children and children because adults will somehow manage one way or another when divorce occurs. Unfortunately, however, when families or marriages survive, and if all that you have numbered is always to be guided, then, of course, parents will be able to manage, but children must be protected by the state. So, as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says, and as the family law and existing family law say. And these examples that you've set regarding the peaceful, indifferent observation of violence, that's something that's everyday. So, very often we are also in our media witnessing that incredible scenes of tragedy, horrors occupy space in the media, but why? Because someone wants to read it and someone wants to see it. So, we, a lot of us want to see. It was mentioned today that this case of a woman crying, screaming, running to the balcony, recently, and coming back. So, the whole neighborhood, all the people around here heard that some big evil was happening. No one intervened. No one tried to break into that apartment and eventually the woman was killed. So the media said she died. No, she was murdered. She was beaten. Why? Because everyone thought it was some problem that needs to be solved there because as people often say, what we're going to interfere with, when you're going to kiss and hug again, and we're going to turn out to be guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62351	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62352	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Yeah, what's the point of this law? The law is based on that strategy adopted in 2011 for the period 2011 to 2016. This, among other things, is said to be a priority for improving family legal protection in the strategy, 2011 to 2016, which was adopted on 2 April 2011, the improvement of legal provisions relating to the custody of adults needs to be thoroughly reformed. Then improving the legal provisions relating to adoption, more clearly determining, correcting normative shortcomings which in practice lead to confusion in interpreting the legal norm, determining the origin of the child, clearer regulation of parental care, facilitating, meeting with the child and individual provisions in maintaining the right, legal uncertainty given different assumptions, way of determining outside the marriage communities and so on, and so on. I'll put an emphasis here on the care of the elderly, i.e. adults. So, new head six, that's restraint. All of this is largely defined by social, so we can say, in an economic picture of Croatia. Every fifth kuna in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. every fifth kuna in the gross social product or each other budget kuna is spent on social transfers, but no matter what in Croatia, and some have already mentioned it, is 1,400,000 people poor. That 66 billion kuna, so that's every other budget kuna, is spent on pensions, on defenders, on the social and so on, health care and so forth. What's a Croatian paradox? We're the third country in Europe, so I guess in the world, whose citizens own one of the properties. Or 90% of adult citizens, unlike 50 to 60% of Germans, 50, 60% of Austrians, Italians own an apartment, property, house and so on. But one more time I'm going to repeat, excuse me, 1,400,000 people in Croatia, or that's 32.3% of the population, or let's say, every third one is poor at receiving cash. Or in 2012, the poverty escort for single-member households or households was 24.122 kuna a year, and for households with two adults and two children 50.656 kuna a year. Or for one-member households, the poverty threshold is 2010 kuna per month, and for four-member households 4221 kuna per month. And from there, it kind of needs to start or start clearly, and it determines everything. From family opportunities to family breakdowns, which is why Istra, unfortunately, is a front when we look at these tables, although opportunities may be economically social something better because there is a slightly smaller unemployment, it is close to the limit. By the time people were 90, to say the least, they almost couldn't buy a good car, but they could build a house and those along the coast that have one, two or three apartments, just as they were and that they belong to this category of poor people, can live politely. But what about the others now? And that's the point. We're dealing with a referendum on marriage on the other hand, okay. We spent how much? 50 million kuna. That's what the people asked for, they'll get that constitutional formulation, no big deal. However, we know what was also the background of this referendum initiative. But to go back here to this law. Article 1, it is literally said that this law regulates marriage, the extramarital community of women and men, relations between parents and children, rights protection measures, child welfare, adoption, custody, abstention, mandatory counselling, family mediation, and procedures relating to family relations and custody. Article 3, women and men have equal rights, solidarity is a fundamental principle of family life, all family members must respect one another, help one another. Article 5, courts, public bodies which conduct procedures in which a child's rights is directly or indirectly decided must primarily protect the child's right and his, clearly, well-being. But interestingly, as I say, under quotes, this one, on the right, would say, and the national government, call whatever it wants, repeats the definition of marriage and the old family law of 2002. And here I quote, "Marriage is a legally arranged community of women and men", Article 12. Article 13, marriage is concluded by the consent of a woman and a man in civil or religious form, etc., etc. See, this is what we just spent 50 million kuna on. And I will say for the third time that the state budget would raise 50 million kuna in the bakery industry should sell 150 million loaves of bread, income 1 billion kuna, pay Mr Linic 5% of VAT or the Ministry of Finance, not to him, means 4 months Croatians must eat, buy bread to finance such a huge referendum. And what the government does, it prescribes provisions of the old law, marriage means marriage is a legally arranged community of women and men. Well, if a man had made a joke, maybe the Bible should say marriage is a community of men and women, not the other way around, but I guess that's why we're not going to the referendum. Article 23, the existence of marriage requires that the bride and groom are of different sexes. So there's nothing to argue about now either. I'll do something more in the second reading around the property, but we've kind of learned all about it. We come to these marriage contracts, article 34 of the property relations of spouses, Chapter 4 etc. and if there is no contract then the provisions of this law are clearly applied, and I would dare to say here that in some ways Croatian marriage life is Americanized here. And I quote, I read this article 34: property relations between marriage mates are subject to the provisions of this law on the regulation of property relations between spouses if their spouses have not arranged property relations with a marriage contract. So the emphasis is on that marriage contract. So it's not a matter of matrimonial gain that's based on the principle of half-half, the retention of inheritance, etc., the problem is the emphasis on the marriage contract, I'm not going to say one preparation for the divorce, but on the day of the conclusion of the marriage itself. Maybe I'm wrong, Croatia is not America or America is Croatia. Someone's gonna say it makes sense, everything ends up getting married, but I'm not going to elaborate on it right now. The law goes into another reading, it's certainly good, as it is good that in the case of divorce and fathers are treated the same way as mothers. Article 185, we heard the same thing today, 97,000 people live in an extramarital community, so I agree, I'm betting that if everyone can adopt a child or adopt children, they should, too. Nothing, you're free to say, in this law is not controversial, someone's going to say it's because it's not controversial then it's all controversial but true,... it tortures what comes next, it's this law on registered partnership. But what Croatia will do, in fact, will accept the standard of a great Germany where if I am not mistaken in the third term of the representation on the hair of the democrats, conservatives, conservative Angela Merkel whose father was a Protestant Christian pater. And now if anything can be done by Germany, if anything can be done by Austria, if anything can be done by Italy, Croatia should not. And exactly says the Pope who I am, he says for himself, to judge them but Cardinal Bergoglio, so called, speaks clearly and stands strictly in the position of marriage and there is no dilemma there and that message is here and Bozanic sent to us today from Rome. So what to say, this law certainly isn't controversial, exactly you'd even dare say maybe this is in some way preparing for the one about the registered partnership. It won't be a questionable one either, no adoption of children, but the spirit released from the bottle then it's hard to return it to the same one and always looking for something more, something different, first of all to be against those who are in that position of power. And another article, that's Article 314, that's Chapter 5 or 6, restraint. The Minister responsible for Social Care Affairs will decide once a year and no later than 1 April of the current year to determine the minimum amounts of money representing the minimum of the total material needs for the monthly maintenance of a minor child in the Republic of Croatia, who is obliged to pay for a parent who does not live with a child. The minimum amount determined in the procedure of the average monthly net salary paid per employee in the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia for the past year and that means that the average is somewhere if I am not mistaken 5500, 5600 kuna, means for a child up to 6 years 17% of the average salary, for a child from 7 to 12 years 20% of the average salary, for a child from 13 to 18 years of age 22% of the average salary. The needs of an underage child for maintenance may be determined at a lower than the legal minimum, but not less than one half of the legal minimum, provided that the abstention obligation is obliged to support more children or if the child contributes to its maintenance by means of his own income and that I do not now analyse all these other provisions. All in all, so pardon the law as such at least in our club is not controversial. I don't see that he's controversial to other clubs, and I'm guessing that in the second reading, he's going to experience some supplements, and it's going to further improve the quality of the same and make him so much more permanent with one permanent legal text. Thank you and cheers!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62353	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62354	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you've finished by saying that, of course, the law is not controversial which I didn't doubt. However, the question arises, of course, whether a new law was actually to be worked at all or whether it was better to complete the existing law eventually. In fact, this law has a whole series of indetermination, contradictions and actually solutions that will be in practice inconclusive, which has already been spoken of, which will cause some injustices, which will represent even some possible direct violation of the international obligations undertaken. Let's say the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights significantly different from this proposal of the law regulates the legal status of the child's representative. Therefore, I am not sure whether a new law should have been worked at all or possibly in the event that some shortcomings in the existing law had been shown to change some of the articles of the existing law that had quite well regulated that matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62355	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62356	No, I'm sure we can't question international laws that have power over our law. But also, I didn't notice that one direct violation of international laws, especially when it comes to minority issues, didn't bother you, so maybe you and your party chief signed off on it personally and along with your party boss, and I'm not going to call it a fascioid referendum on Cyrillic right now. However, what do I want to say on the other hand? You are a gentlemen's strategy or we have brought in this House when most of you had HDZ in 2011, namely 2.4 for the 2011-2014 period. And now the question is, normally, what does the opposition want? This government is trying, or this parliamentary majority turn that strategy into legal norms. If opportunities had been better before, it would have been easier now. But there is no easy way back, and no one should be called to blame for it or anything. Chances are harder. The more difficult social programmes are unfortunately in this country that 50% of its budget is allocated to social transfers will be more modest and useful when it gets more and more. So what now? There's just no money. The better the opportunities, the more stable families in this country will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62357	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, a respected colleague, Josip Salapic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62358	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is an important law, a great need for public debate and the thematic session in the Croatian Parliament and the public to have enough time, and we of the Croatian Parliament, since it is a matter of first reading of the law and it is good that family law is passed in regular business procedures because it is a very important area and issues that should be regulated by this particular important law. Also, the entry into force of this Act in 1.7.2014 gives space to all those involved in the implementation of this law it is today we are discussing it in the Croatian Parliament, but the task that follows after the regular procedure and the adoption of this law will be passed on to the Centre for Social Care. First of all, what is most important for the law to be enforceable should also provide maximum education for people who work in welfare centres. Also, the education of courts and judges who judge in such proceedings, and this proposal to either call family departments or family departments in courts, should be supported as a measure that is positive in terms of the severity and sensitivity of the areas concerned by the regulation of family, the legal relationship between spouses, especially after divorce. Also, since we are aware that a new State budget for 2014 has been adopted so that the system can be implemented, in practice to ensure quality education, prepare people to work in this area, and above all we particularly welcome the intensity of this law on maximum child protection, especially children after divorce. Many recent months we have talked about the definition of marriage, which is, that this relationship between the male and female community has spent 50 million kuna on a referendum, the definition will enter the Constitution by, therefore, the results of the referendum and the decision of most voters in the Republic of Croatia. And what needs to be discussed in particular, and today is the time and it is the law that these are real problems in families and real problems in the community where people in the environment live. Whether they are families fully with a father or a mother or families with one parent or without parents, it is about families. It is our obligation under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and under this law to protect the family maximum, especially children who are in some situations, and we see according to the report and female attorneys, a particularly sensitive category, that a lot of things from the 2003 Family Law to today have not changed in terms of solving difficulties, and especially those traumas that children experience since the divorce of marriage and parents. It is also the mission of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Republic of Croatia, as well as of all institutions operating outside the Croatian Parliament. I will especially mention this because in the referendum behind us there was a great role for the Church, any religious community, not only Catholic but also others, that the people, the citizens of Croatia, were educating and really saying what was needed for the family to be a healthy family. Because one thing is to provide solid legal foundations, and the other is to involve the whole society as a community in the protection of that family. We advocate that the Family Law is primarily a key law for the protection of families and children and we support these legal solutions relating to and the application of international law, to the taking over of our obligations from the EU acquis, and in particular to highlight the problem that one strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in April 2011. So this was the past government, and the urgency is that we need to amend the Family Law and that it needs to be brought into line with the problems and needs of the time in which we live and our obligations as a member of the EU. So this law in that section goes to protect children after divorce. And for the maximum attempt of marriage as an institution and, therefore, a legal category, trying to save the law on mediation when it comes, so what would be under the old law is calming down, trying to calm a spouse, so we should make greater efforts and try to save the marriage. That's something that's positive. Is this period from two to six months good? Now, we need to discuss this because it's not all that honey and milk about mediating and talking to spouses. There are also relationships that are unsaved. So there are relationships where this relationship between mates cannot be saved, it's about troubled marriages, it's about people who are prone to alcohol, drugs and the like. We are also witnesses to the reports of the attorney general for children and, according to the Ombudsman, that many crimes of domestic violence and family problems have just arisen from such unhealthy marriages. So, this period of 2 to 6 months can sometimes be too long because if we see that something cannot be preserved and that such a marriage cannot be preserved, then it is better to stop as soon as possible and simply move in the direction if there are children in such marriages to protect children maximumly. So this deadline for us from 2 to 6 months we don't know if it's feasible in all cases, big responsibility will be at the welfare centres. And here I am particularly stressing again whether we are certain that our centres are also ready today to discuss the Social Care Act where family centres are scheduled to be abolished, whether our social care centres are fully willing to take responsibility and the weight of this bill. So we need to be as careful as possible because large public powers, as proposed by this law, are being transferred to existing centres for social care. So, this weight and this need to further educate people and that if we are able to prepare them with time for the challenges that this law carries there, we need to make every effort but, above all, the efforts involved in the insurance of funds in the state budget to make something like this feasible. Therefore, given the report by the Ombudsman, given that in Croatia, many children who do not exercise their rights have been granted to them according to the current law of 2003, we have the information that around 1492 children have not achieved their right to meet and associate with parents who live with them after the divorce or the termination of the extramarital community. I would like to point out another problem, which is that these children who do not live with one of their parents there need to be as careful as possible, and there is a need to stress once more the role of the courts in this. Is it my opinion that this equality between father and mother in cases where it is possible to be greater because we are witnesses, therefore not saying that a mother should not take precedence over her child, a woman has also given birth to a child but a father should also be equal in this regard to her child. Sometimes even in the practice of courts, we have seen in some reports courts lightly put under quotes by the mother, but there are also cases where this is completely different in practice and inexecutable, when it is precisely the father or the man after the divorce who cares more about his child. Not only in terms of financial concern, we think that this parenting love and child rearing at the time when the child is most difficult after divorce must be equally on both the mother and the father's side when that is possible. When this is not possible, it is necessary to apply those measures to keep the child’s interest in the child from irresponsible parents before divorce and after divorce and in trying to save a marriage maximum. It is the intention and the promoter of this law as we see it, but the intention should be for all of us to lead this particular care to be primarily protective and even. One is the work of the welfare center, the other is when the case comes to court. Sometimes, in some cases, even judges do not go into the details of certain cases in order to implement their decision fully in accordance with the law or with the interest of child protection. So, great efforts have been made in the judiciary, we have measures relating to judicial academy, the State School for Judicial Officials and the like, none of the laws that we make that therefore has modern solutions, which is in line with conventions, international law, the acquis of the EU is in practice not enforceable if the system as a whole does not function as such and there is also an important role of courts and judges and judges in matters concerning family law. Another problem on which we want to make an emphasis. So, when it comes to older people and the EU's intention and law and acquis, the EU's particular emphasis is on this category of people with whom the law and the legislation in Croatia and our legal solutions have not been sufficiently addressed so far, this bill to make it difficult or in full control to put what has been going a little routine and it is a complete resolution of the business ability of elderly people when, without an additional assessment of witches and slightly easier on certain categories of people of older age, they are estimated not to be able to take care of themselves or to make their own decisions automatically deprived of their own business ability. That so-called. the death of a citizen without further verification, the involvement of the experts and all experts who should therefore indeed, on the basis of justified circumstances, assess whether this is necessary and taking into account the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. So that's where we need this part of the law that relates to the restriction and other control of this system to be supported. As for persons with disabilities and the harmonisation of the law with the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, therefore, it is part of the law that, of course, we need to support the other laws that we have passed on to this topic. Once again, given that we have enough time since the first reading of the law is that in the regular parliamentary procedure of the debate and other key problems in which I did not arrive today and I did not say, therefore, we welcome the regular parliamentary procedure, the public debate that was, the entry into force of this law, which will be the first of July 2014 and, in particular, the protection of children, the protection of families of all factors in society, not only the policies, the Government, the Parliament, but also the religious communities, should be at the level that the family really in the life and time that we live and which is not easily protected at all, cannot be a single legal act nor the Constitution of the Republic in which much has been said in the last days if all those wheels in society and all of us who participate in the implementation of this, we do not make our utmost contribution. The HDSSB Club, therefore, in this first part of the law on the protection of children's rights, protection of persons of older age, difficulties in the circumstances for the deprivement of business capacity, protection of disabled persons on the basis of the needs and reports of the Ombudsman for children, we can support this law in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62359	Thank you. Now we move on to replica. The first one will be presented by the esteemed vice president of Zeljko Reiner's home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I actually agree with the good part of what you said. However, I would especially refer to two things. One is the need for an intrinsic policy which I am not sure is seen in this proposal at all and of course I agree with you that it is a much wider area than what is the subject of this law alone. In fact, the fact is that abolishing family centers is something that goes in exactly the opposite direction. So instead of expanding the diapazone of family counselling facilities, it is abolished, the family centers are abolished. And instead of actually implementing a strong policy of discovery, this government will not only be achieved by a new legislative proposal but also by a series of activities that could be done beyond the legal proposal to introduce tax reliefs to families with children especially families with more children, various kinds of family support, encouraging and co-financing of kindergartens, helping families with education, in relation to housing, in relation to transport, etc. So, one systematic innovative demographic policy would actually be much more useful than whether to create a new law which, as I said, I'm not sure it should have been new at all or could have changed a few articles of the existing one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62361	Replication response, dear Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62362	Dear Vice President Reiner. I agree with you what you have said about the need for the Government to have opportunities to expand the policy of opportunity but that this would be a viable system and society should function differently. So it's not just a family that has a father and a mother, a lot of kids grow up without parents. I was in my personal life, there were four brothers and sisters, and when I continued my education, I inherited a family pension that was, at the time I was in college, studying, 1300 kuna and to drive to Osijek, I needed 500 kuna. So, if you're not a good student or a student, you get a special will to live when you have to work on your own to get a scholarship from the state. When you add it all up, if it's going to be one average life, not good or bad, then you can't live it. I fully advocate that if we're going to protect our family, if we're going to support this most intelligent policy to take special care of these children who in various ways is the result of the disease, it was the result of unfortunately the war that we've been through, whether it's the consequence of the economic situation in which we live. Unfortunately, we see that many families with children leave Croatia, go to Canada and seek out a new life for bread, and our country and country, in addition to this legal framework under the Family Law, should provide frameworks that should be the task not only of these governments of the current but also of all future governments of Croatia, that if we keep Croatia as a country with a generation of young people who need to think about the future and a better life for all of us then we should be fully involved in the most innovative policy, and especially help large families. If the large families are going to be such that we create an orphanage from children, some children unfortunately do not have the right way and that the community and the local community do not support them and help them. I personally was fortunate to have many people involved in helping us, and many ended up badly today in homes and their children in homes. It should be a concern not only of this law but of all the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62363	Another replica, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I can say. I actually agree with the good part of what you said. However, the replica encouraged me to do this when you mentioned family centres, so I already said here when I replicated my colleague Roksandić's family centres and their existence in this form is not a guarantee that they are perfectly performing what they are founded for and can give you a number of good and bad examples, so good and bad practices, somewhere they work perfectly only have a director somewhere. So one very, very strange situation. With the next law that is on our agenda today, the Social Welfare Act will discuss the abolition, but I would not call it the abolition in the right sense of the word, but only their integration into social care centres. They will continue to work these employees will continue to do the work that should be done but I believe their entry into the social care centre network will allow more effective monitoring of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62365	Reply to the replica of counterpart Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62366	Col. Hajduković, we will discuss the Social Care Act in the afternoon where it will go to the abolition of family centres and the integration of centres into the Social Care Centre. One solution, which should be avoided in politics, the family centres passed the HDZ government with their partners. So now, with this bill of law, where, apart from harmonising new... solutions, centres are abolished and large public powers are transferred to welfare centres. I have said in the debate whether there is enough reasonable explanation, except what you have said now about the directors and whether the welfare centres will indeed be within the scope of all the powers they need to have, and the problems exist on the ground is not the same in every part of Croatia the conduct of the social care centre in terms of capacitation, the education of the people who do so, it is a sensitive area, whether this family centre could get some new assignments under this law maybe, together with social care centres, to facilitate the work of social care centres. Sometimes if you have a difficult subject, it can be drawn to 6 months, a year, and the worker of the social care center will be able to do so one and the same person with enough attention and measure to help, educate, advise, mediate if one and the same person returns 10, 20 times to the same welfare center. It's a very sensitive question area where you need to be as careful as possible. I object to the fact that some of the measures taken by the former government, which it has brought, which are good, are only abolished because they are abolished because of the government's failure to produce any sign of the current government, I am against, and for... better solutions. If this in practice turns out to be a problem, and I'm sure it will show up, then we'll have to go back to changing and supplementing the law, if it's not enforceable. Let's just make sure that this is really all practical in order to achieve the interest of this law, which is the maximum protection of families and children in families that are born as a consequence of maybe divorce. That's what I was talking about, not that we're going to it now, if the family centers have a director or not, it was a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62367	Branko Vuksic will now present his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62368	Dear counterpart Salapic, you said that too many children did not exercise the right to associate with other parents. Unfortunately, this often happens without any sanctions, it just says that the justice system doesn't work and it just talks about child manipulation. Several times you probably subconsciously said father-man, I guess, subconsciously. The referendum made it clear that the father was a man, and that he was a married mate. Look, the first time a woman throws me what kind of man you are, I will answer with a constitutional guarantee. Virility guarantees us the Constitution and who is happier than us Croats and even those in the eye of men.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62369	Reply to the replica of counterpart Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62370	I did not say anything unconsciously, I spoke in the context of the existing positive legal rules of Croatia, which is the current Constitution and referendum that passed. In this regard and the need to better resolve this issue with the Family Law itself, the definition itself will not bring anything to anyone, unless in practice it really means protecting the family. When I was talking about equating relationships between a man and a woman, or a father and a mother, in this case, are we talking about valid regulations without reducing the rights of anyone, the practice has proved to be more side-by-side when it comes to problematic relationships, which is sometimes not true. We've had a variety of cases that even mothers didn't exactly take care of their children, and even more so was the father in this case the man in the family. Just to talk about the need for this balance between a father and a mother when it comes to that child living with his parents and that child being given by a court decision or a welfare centre, the right to see his child, and all this remains a problem that is not spoken of. I think that this report by the attorney general about 1492 cases is not entirely true because there are cases, so I had one such case myself, and we remember Professor Rešetar a few years ago we talked about it when a mother who didn't pay for her abstention wanted to ask for judicial protection on the way, asked us to help her and if we could give her some advice, and then she gave up because she was afraid that she would hurt her child so she wouldn't get mad at her mother because she went to her father on the contrary and he didn't pay anything. And in order for her to survive with one pay professor who was 3,500 kuna, she couldn't do it, so she had to do a hundred extras to get her child to school. Now that's the problem I wanted to say that sometimes there are parents who are either mother or father irresponsible to their children and that we need to coordinate those instruments and those areas of the welfare center and even punishing those who do not meet their obligations as they should, according to the court's decision, that should even be tightened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62371	Followed by the replica of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleague Salapic in that section that we should pay particular attention for the moment in which we live. And we see for ourselves what a moment it is, poverty is growing every day and today it is the Day of Human Rights. And as I came to this session, I listened to Mrs. Attorney General, who put her under a large human rights questionnaire where that social component is very significant and causes immense difficulties. But what made me come forward, you were talking about education, about the education of judges, you know that area better. But me, and they can't unless they're educated enough to contribute to the moment of haste that's been talked about a lot. But I draw attention to these mediators who will be very important in this process. And now to say that in six months I think it's their deadline somewhere that they'll be able to educate themselves so quickly and it's a complex problem from pedagogy to health, legal issues. I believe it's very important and questionable that they won't be able to do it so, that they won't be able to do it very well. But I'm glad you also mentioned that there is insufficient emphasis on the needs of elderly people. There are major problems, mainly in rural areas where their existential opportunities are extremely complex. Many units, including my efforts, are being made through the Geronto housewife to make their lives easier. And these circumstances where their mail is also lifted in many rural areas do not contribute to this quality of life where mail is a way of life, which guarantees them certain opportunities. Well done with these modern technologies, the Internet and everything but it won't certainly contribute to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62373	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62374	A respected colleague with regard to an elderly person is, as far as this bill is concerned, well solved. Because many abuses are precisely in this routine seizing of business ability where those family members who take over then complete care for such persons in some cases and there are many regrets how much harder it is to live in families, simply after a person comes in a certain year of life, take away her business ability, her property, and all that a person has acquired with his honest, hard work can be questioned by some who have been able to use the grace of some bad legal solutions to make such people under quotes and fraud. That I could just still function for the rest of my life but they're so-called. Civil death makes it impossible to do so. As far as the mediators are concerned, it's a measure of law that's a newspaper and that's good. And I agree with you that there may be little time for them to be fully educated. But what's important, the expansion of the community and the society we live in, we had a referendum that passed. I also mentioned religious communities, not only the Catholic Church but also other communities should contribute to solving problems in families because it is also the teaching and sending of each of the faiths regardless of who it was. If on these occasions, a kind of mediator is a community where we live both the religious community and the local community and the associations, if you want schools and colleges and sports societies and everything where a healthy lifestyle and people's relationships can be taught. I'm stressing this here is good for the mediators to enter the Family Law as such. Their education should not be questionable, and it will take time for the law to become enforceable. But once again I stress the need and the wider communities and society, we have instruments, we have opportunities where each of us can be involved in protecting the interests of the family. At that time, we are on the right path in our country, which is a member of the European Union and some values have not yet come to life in us, and it takes a lot of time to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62375	And the last replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Salapic, I agree in a large part with your debate, especially when you were talking about protecting the family. Here, we see from some research that the family is the most important value for more than 90% of Croatian citizens, they regularly show all these research in the last 20 years. It is most important for young and old and high school students and students and married and singles and careers and unemployed. However, we must conclude that all the positive legal regulations that have been adopted regarding the protection of the family and among them are the regulations and unfortunately the other is reality. The family is the one who is unfortunately on the wind in Croatia, it needs the most possible protection and is precisely the most vulnerable. Because all the economic and political disasters around it today bring about family disunity. We need to think for ourselves you were talking about leaving young people. About getting married later, about children being born all the time. Why? Not because, as we see in the research, we don't want to, so be they in a marriage or an extramarital community, but they're economically powerless. Today in the family in Croatia, I have to say, he's making fun of it. Especially that part, let's call it traditional families, I'd call it family and religion. So if these are multi-member families going to Sunday Masses, they're gonna have to say in a large part of the media they're ridiculed. And you were talking about the need for religious communities to contribute. What I would like to say is really when this family is strengthened, when it is strong and economically and when it is strengthened by this love and I must say to both political and government to feel the need for the family to be strong in Croatia, then we will have enough and much less laws than these 557.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62377	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62378	I agree with you, Your Honor. I wouldn't just say that the family needs to be strong, need to be healthy. Because a healthy family and under quotes "healthy children" from that family can only come from an environment that is such that this child directs his children towards the right path of life. One piece of information, in Osijek-Baranja County, is only 8% of highly educated citizens, which is a disaster data. This environment, first of all, begins and ends with families. No policy will make a child able to go into life and life - water on his own and into married waters or any water, regardless of what purpose or life needs anyone is doing. To be healthy, you need to get out of your family healthy. So, there's a lot of cases and it's best to say some opportunities in life. In, there, where I live an old man, Grandpa kept his granddaughter who was little when I saw her, her father and mother left her. My dad was a total alcoholic, my mother left, she left the baby, she got married again. Now after 15 years I met my father from that family again, asking where your daughter is, says your daughter lives somewhere in Split, and all four children she had in the two marriages she had are in homes. And that's something that's terrible. So there is the need, not only for politics, but also for healthy relations in families, so I also mentioned religious communities, there is no room for any demeaning of any government. Every government after the elections should be the Government of all citizens, regardless of political commitment both to religion and to any other. The right direction of the government should be that all citizens are equal before their laws, and the maximum tension on the preservation of the family is precisely good laws. In order to be enforceable in practice, the whole community, I repeat once again, all communities, both political and social and religious, but also that fate when it is meant to protect the family, should be connected, maximum education and in the direction of protection and the interests of families and children. Then we're on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62379	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HSU Club, a respected colleague of Vishny Fortun will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62380	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates. Yes, today is the day of human rights, and I am very glad that the Family Law has come to our table today. I can't say that only in Family Law, in every law, human rights are the most important, but I wanted to point out, even if a respected representative has already said that. So the Family Law, I'll dare say here that it's still different from all the other laws. Every law is special to itself, but it is more than any law such a law which surely requires, and that was there, a multidisciplinary approach. Lawyers and experts who have written this law must have and have significant theoretical knowledge, great experience and intellectual width and beyond the scope of their profession or openness, and must be open to all other opinions, opinions and other experts. Since the public debate on this law was three months, it was and had the opportunity to react. Whether that's enough or not, I wouldn't be estimating here right now, so in this first part of the Family Law proposal, it's all actually done. I will refer here in some areas, where, somewhere, we will have some suggestions, remarks, given that it is first reading, all in good faith, so that the final text is even better, better quality or perhaps the same, but this will be obvious by the competent ministry. So, I wanted to say in the process, in the divorce, this deadline extended, three months ago, the launch, the participation, and now it's from two to six months. That's good, that range is bigger. And so on. But it's good, and sometimes it might not be good. Here I would like to stress that a lot of procedures will be conducted where divorces won't have to react at all, married couples themselves will agree on it and it will be, goes to court and it's over. But right where it's problematic and conflicting, maybe that deadline is up to six months too long, why? That's why these conflict situations continue, that's why I wanted to point out. And that remains, of course, the whole family, especially children. So it's just my question of this from two to six months, given that maybe two to four months could be shortened, it's a question. Then, mandatory counselling in divorce and before other court proceedings related to children. And here we are now, saying hello, and that's what we need. It's this plan that has to be made, it's family mediation, it's family experts, it's mediators and everyone else, which is very good, and we welcome it. But really, it's good that the application of this law with 01.07, and that's actually, this is all I'm going to say now, in a way, maybe I shouldn't say it, but I'm going to say it anyway. It is very important that a team of experts who are really going to work in this extremely sensitive area, team up and be educated really as well as they could, because if we don't have a well teamed, educated, believe that these articles that are standing here, most of them won't be the effect that this proposal really contains. Maybe I'd say again, it's my doubt too that at the Social Services Center everything is now being carried out. By law, we'll see about social care after the family centers have been abolished, I've been given an explanation, and I've accepted. However, I will ask just one more question. I'm not gonna say conflict, conflict of interest or conflict, I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know the legal terms. Why? Because now in one legal entity, one institution, and this is the Social Care Centre, often happens. Both mediators and experts and intermediaries and setting up guardians for a special case, and setting up representatives of children and bodies, they are also a body that must give a proposal and an opinion on parental care and this law is obtained, and the Centre for Social Care and so now has, I don't know exactly how many, powers, get and an additional not a small number, not a small number of these powers, so I'm just asking. I know that the family workers, they'll all connect to the Center. It'll probably come true, but if it won't be in this part of maybe some conflict, I'm asking. Furthermore, I would like to comment on short encounters and socializing with children. In this bill of law we have, before there were meetings and association with children, children with parents, pardon, and now we have personal relations in this new law. I don't mind that, maintaining personal relationships, I know that it also refers to keeping in touch, by means of both cell phones and skypes, correspondence and everything else that's normal. However, the question is simply whether it is maintaining personal relationships, making individuals, or parents personally with children, and it is another duty for parents to encourage personal relations to separate parents. Well, I don't think I've had any personal relationships, but it's irrelevant, it's not really, it's kind of been more appropriate for me to date and hang out with my parents. That's how it is. I would especially like to be encouraged here, so the parent who gets his child's conviction has a duty to encourage this other parent to socialize, to contact, etc. If it's all right, nothing happens, if it's not okay, I'm afraid and I know from experience this is saying that very often it happens that a parent manipulates very often, but also often happens to want to encourage these relationships but that other parent is unfortunately either an alcoholic or a troubled person, etc. And I'd be sorry if then that good parent who only takes care of a child and all together is someone who's gonna be "sufficient" here because he's not all parents and most of them are being manipulated by children. So those who aren't might be a good parent who's also condemned to be somehow called not enough to encourage his own. Now that there may be some kind of surveillance, probably that, the welfare center, that's also my suspicion. Furthermore, I also wanted to look back at the determination of motherhood and fatherhood. I'd just like to ask, now you're asked to enlist in the Matrix born in administrative proceedings, and I'd also be wondering if the point of determining such cases should be a family court or a department of those who would be in a family court. And further, legal relations between parents and children. We also have the right to parental care is acquired at the moment of determining the origin of the child. The right and duty of parental care is where parents are equal. We also agree here that with this proposal now, the bill, the new solution needs to be able to achieve parental care in full and partly be entrusted to only one parent and be either entrusted under exceptional circumstances or third parties. It's only here that it says the child's well-being. There's only that child's well-being in some way, maybe if more sentences can be added to what's meant. We know what the child's well-being is, but we do know that oftentimes the manipulators are in play here, so I'd like to see if there's anything more to be added. Then, we agree, I'm just saying with, I don't want to go any further with restraints. It is very good that in the new family bill we also have the restraint between grandkids and grandparents, but I am also afraid it should be further specified whether partners to establish a reciprocal obligation and whether the introduction of reciprocity from their maintenance obligations will be exempt parents who have not supported their children who have been deprived of parental care and will then have the obligation to abstain. I hope not, but here I am, and I asked the question to keep us in that part even safer. Furthermore, I would go a little bit tied up, not a little bit, but certain articles related to children. The most important thing here is family relations or families. I would like here to recognize paternity and the recognition process, I would refer to cases often I know that we are also in the center and now as much as I was interested in talking to mothers about the recognition of paternity in situations where the biological father is a foreign citizen and does not live in the Republic of Croatia. Can it then be ensured that he can make a statement on the record in his, of course, contact with the service, in his embassy, or in the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Croatia abroad, as well as with the competent authorities of that foreign country, and then be a valid document that he can do so. Then, the provisions concerning a man who recognizes fatherhood. By drawing up this bill of law to determine that a 16-year-old person can admit paternity if he's capable of understanding the meaning of it, I'd cut a lot short here but I'd just ask. When we speak, an example is again shown from the practice in which the underage mother was also challenged by the right so far to give consent to the recognition of paternity, and in the case of a minor father, it was not disputed. He's if he's found capable at 16 he can do it. As far as the child's age is concerned, we propose to maintain the provision that paternity can recognise a child who turned 16 if it is able to understand the meaning of a confession statement, whether it is a man or a woman. In the case of limited business capacity, it is stated that a child who has been 14 years of age can take legal action on his own, i.e. to make legal transactions and make commitments at a certain level of the amount he earns. I would just say here that with regard to the participation of the child, we welcome this intention to enable the child to participate in procedures that are clearly defined and that this is precisely what it means, but that this is why I would not want it to be misunderstood that the intention was to enable the child to participate in the procedure, that it is not understood that it is his obligation. This is, in fact, participating in the process if he is required to do so and for such a child in order to be able to participate primarily in the process must be timely and comprehensively informed so that he can make decisions at all whether he wants to participate in the procedure or not and to what extent. The child's participation in the process must be free, voluntary, respecting unrestrained by his age, so it is the right but not his obligation. The management of the property of the child is the same area that is very demanding and interesting. It's well regulated here. We have the management, but we have the management of the child's assets and the limitation of the right to manage the child's property where, for example, maybe manipulations can happen here, because we have a situation where in certain situations it can be, it's actually about alienating the child's assets that may be in the child's interest and it doesn't always have to be in the child's interest. It's well regulated articles here, so I also support that part. But I would just point out that it is crucial that it is not written like that, but it is that parents have a duty, a right and a responsibility to manage the property of a child with the attention of a responsible parent in a way that preserves it and possibly increases it. That's something. I would use the concept of parenting content instead of parental care. Perhaps the content of parental care would be better in what I said before, in those situations, the one who performs that duty, etc. that we have parenting content, not just parental concerns. He may not have to, but maybe this proposal would be a little wider. Then we have an independent parental concern. It can be established under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the state should ensure that both parents have a common responsibility for raising and developing a child, which is clearly laid down by the current law here, and parents have the right and duty to have equal parental care and agreement. Here, however, the proposed solution could, in practice, create some confusion and misunderstanding since it states that a parent who lives with a child is independent of parental care based on a judicial decision if parents have not reached a plan for joint parental care or agreement during the proceedings. I'm afraid it could be misread, I think here I understand, but it could be misread if he doesn't live or if he hasn't made that agreement. I hope not, but here's the only reason I mentioned it. Then I'll do this in replicas if there are. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you. No, no. Time's up.]] Thank you. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62381	Yeah, it's got three replicas. The first one will be presented by Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Fortuna, you said that the implementation of this law requires a multidisciplinary approach and you talked about profiles that must be involved, lawyers, psychologists, social workers who must have great knowledge and experience. Now, I am particularly undermining the experience and in that part I see and I am sorry, I have seen great potential in family centres which, in a preventive sense, have had extraordinary achievements and in an individual approach. And that's why I didn't accept that argument. You said you agreed to join the Social Services. I didn't accept it for many reasons. You said yourself that social care centers are buried, filled with all possible documentation. We witness a case every day and says a social worker has scheduled it. That's the problem. The second moment is that people are reluctant to go to the Centre for Social Care, and they are reluctant to go because it's always known that there's always been some way that there's been a certain stigmatization in some way, and in that part, it's certain that people don't like to go to those centers. And the third thing that is, there won't be any urgency in solving conflict situations, because conflict situations require extraordinary urgency. In fact, the stretching and deepening of these conflicts leads to even greater frustrations, even greater reflections in these families, and will certainly not contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62383	The replica matches the esteemed Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62384	Thank you very much. All of what I said was true, but I also said that in the bill of this law in writing the bill was this multidisciplinary approach for sure. That's why I said that especially this law compared to some other law, that was the first part. As far as the Social Care Centre is concerned, and there is, experts are there both psychologists and socialists, etc. They work together. As far as the family centres are concerned, the explanation I received is accepted in a way and I also told the speaker that they will be further educated, further strengthened for this additional education and strengthened that they will remain in the same location. So we're not gonna put them all in the same room, so there's room. And it gave me hope as an expert in the area, and the good answer was that it was all possible. I was just saying the little question here so it wouldn't happen when the cadiya sues, the cadiya judges, but that's what I'm going to get an answer to. And these other misunderstandings are really the way it was answered, as it was said, I really agreed with them, and I'm sure that's how it's going to happen. Because if it didn't happen that way, there would be a lot of chaos for sure. And therefore, I am convinced that our competent ministry cannot, would not want, cannot and must not allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62385	On the next line is Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Fortuna, I was actually going to refer to it the same way. You, I think, have properly detected the problem of the Social Services Centre. Namely, these centres will actually, according to the new proposal, have a lot of work to do with mediators, consultants, etc. And all that he does for the time being, and we know that these centers now have a shortage of employees. We can talk here that they will be further educated. Will the new employees come in? It probably won't, because the state's dying now, so it saves on anything, let alone hiring new people. Therefore, we know that in the situations where here, in Zagreb where there are probably 50 people missing, I don't know how it's really going to be implemented. What is another problem that seems important to me to mention, which is that parental care other than parents can be realized by other individuals and institutions. This is, of course, the opposite of the legal continuity that we have, and the problem is also the criteria for, say, such a decision of the court, the means of verifying that person, the decision, the illogicality that parental care can have an institution, etc. And it's actually something that requires that this bill actually suspects both parents and in the possibility of their agreement on a child instead of creating conditions for a better, more quality parenting and after termination of partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62387	The replica matches Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62388	What you are, the first part you said about the centers, yes, and you're right, but I'm going to repeat once more to the employees of the family centers will be part of the Social Care Center. So, they're bored, so it's something that's going to increase the number of employees and I'm also convinced if it's necessary when it all comes together to saying that in that part it's safe to take additional employees. Here's a good thing, I'm going to say it on my own, I don't know if it'll be possible, as mediators, educators and these experts can and take external associates, they don't have to be employees in the center at all. And it's the best thing that we can actually turn this part of the Family Law into professional... take through contracts or as professional associates only to be quality, well educated and well-trained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it does not have to be a centre employee but a good expert associate of the centre's staff. That's very good. And as for parents who will be deprived of parental care rights, you also said, that is extremely rare. That's what we know very well that, I know one case, and I worked downtown for 20 years and a few years, only once it happened. And in that situation, I am convinced that it cannot happen that this child who has to be deprived is extremely difficult then the situation in that family and who in the court manages to confirm that this is necessary often and sent to court but the court has rejected it to us, the Social Care Centre. If the court accepts that, then we don't have to go any further about it, not that we don't have to, there's no more to say. And I'm sure then that the competent welfare center will put that child on the proper foster home family and care. I believe it will no longer be a welfare facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62389	And the last line is Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I listened very carefully to you, and I'm sure everything you've said, you've spoken from your experience in your work. Well, I'm kind of curious, somehow I can't find myself in that forest of articles, but I've talked to a lot of people a little, and I don't know, maybe you can explain it to me. Six months in the reality of waiting for a divorce to start, everyone realized, waiting for a divorce case to start, in some cases it's just a horrifying here's the easiest way to say it. Indeed, it would be said that every beginning of a relationship or marriage is out of love, and no divorce is happy, there is no divorce, and usually all children get involved in it. And I think this part of the story is about paying rent, that is, staying in an apartment or a family home or somewhere to settle these property issues. The one who stays with the child or those who are obliged to pay, so people understand and I'm sorry I realized, they are obliged to pay the other side of his apartment. It'll be a game without borders. It really seems to me, here's a lot of experience with both kids and getting into these processes and just one pressure on those kids with whom that child is going to stay. And not to mention that he must now participate in statements that his parent prefers and is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62391	The replica matches the esteemed Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62392	What you said from 2 to 6 months is for all those parents who are fortunately much, much less than other parents who cannot agree on their own. Usually parents agree on their own without even intercession, but for those parents who do not agree, it is two to six months. That deadline is too long we have a range, that's good. Now that's what the mediators are coming in, and that's where all the professions I've been talking about come in. And if they do, why am I always saying good education and good empowerment to them? If they're gonna be able to do that part of the job, then all this stuff that you're asking about right now should be settled. I expect it from my experience to be very little, the rest of which are not in any way agreed within six months because it's over, I mean, it's over, it's possible, but it's very rare. Also, a parent who stays, or a child who stays with his parents, has the right to remain in that way at home. All these procedures are still being negotiated. So I'm telling you, it's all in the process, as soon as it wasn't. And something else is very good that wasn't before, there was an exceptional participation of the child was remarkable and rare. Believe that often it's very necessary, at least I know because I've been working on it for five years and I know well that we could have a child's statement we would have solved it in 5 minutes. Because very often your child is, not very often, children are honest and she in a moment if you know it and there is very important who will talk to that child and how they will approach that child not to scare him and not to scare him and, etc., if you know it and those who know it very well can then get everything out of there to the best and most qualitative solution for that family whether it was together or not. It happens that the family stays together, don't always think about the divorce. That's why there are these mediators and all these experts and the two to six-month procedure that the family stays together and stays together sometimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62393	We will now give the Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of Social Policy and Young Milanka Opačić the opportunity to show off about club positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62394	Here's a little bit further to clarify some things, just to make it as clear in this debate as Mrs. twilight said, I figured out this way, so let's see what we wanted. So, when it comes to transferring parental care to another person, perhaps we can most plastically explain on a specific case. So you have a stepfather who lives ten years with a child, ten years of care for that child, takes him to school, bathes him, feeds him, takes care of him. When she's feverish, it happens that her mother is here to die. I'm asking you who we're going to give the child to, whether a father who had no contact with him or a stepfather who cared for him and carried out parental care. It's a parenting transfer. I think this system that we put here is much more just because it's the one that takes care of the child. You just spoke here about what marriage is and how marriage can be fixed. There's no mechanism, there's no law that can make marriage better. If two people don't love each other and don't understand each other and don't respect each other, there's no law that we can impose on them, make them better. So is this. This is one of the life situations where I think this should be recognized and that's the transfer of parental care. Family home, let's do the same on an example. The fact is that this is one solution that will be applied where we have property that can be sold, which can be replaced by maybe two smaller apartments, where there are people who have decent incomes, but let's do this now, you have a mother who's got custody of the child because they couldn't agree differently, is the alternative that she goes out with the child and pays herself a tenant apartment. So if we wanted to protect the child, then we tell the child, so let's go back to practice. Most men get out of their apartment and leave their apartment to a child, most of them. So we, in principle, do law on some situations where we don't exactly have that kind of situation where we have to legally protect our children. As for the centre's burden, yes, they're very burdensome but once again in this law we've deprived them of four jobs, they're no longer special guardians of children, persons with disabilities, they don't decide to agree on property, they don't make maintenance deals, and they're no longer mixers in court proceedings, we're deprive them of this law. The conflict of interest, whether there's a conflict of interest right now in this merger. So we went through a lot of trouble, and we went further, and that's why we decided to put this together, let's say by one institution, even though the family centers remain in their premises, all of their employees will just join forces so that we can solve together as best we can with the existing capacities of the problems we have. There is no conflict of interest because we have decided to form this centre for representation, so a special centre in which 8 people who have a judicial exam in four actually have our center Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek because we have our courts seats there and then we will not have that kind of additional costs so that we have decided that we have no conflict of interest. We've also been thinking about giving part of it to the state's attorney's office or someone else. However, all of them are sometimes found in a court dispute, and precisely because we asked to avoid any conflict of interest, we had to go to this moderation, therefore, of a special representation center. I would just like to add, if this is a recognition of paternity, therefore for non-RH citizens, it will be settled by law to international private law, so I think it is a law that should come here very quickly to the Parliament and the Family Law in this part cannot be solved. And one more thing just clarifications about these two months, four months of waiting. So in situations where we have a highly conflicting divorce, when we have domestic violence, then we go straight into divorce, there's no two months, there's no waiting, there's an immediate divorce. This is actually a mechanism where we wanted to force them to go to mediation, but also that in that time, who's going to approach counseling and family mediation because then it's an indicator to the judge, so all the time we've been talking about is that we have to figure out who's more cooperative because he's going to be a better parent, right? So let's also give this period where the centre can, so inside we have prescribed in the law that the center of the sea in its report is a word that this parent who was cooperative, who is the parent who wanted to come to both the counseling and the family mediation because this parent shows that he then cares about the child's care together. That's just it, in that segment, but wherever we have any danger from any violence or anything at the same time goes into a divorce and no environment. Thank you very much to you for speaking on behalf of the clubs in the debate and, of course, we move on this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62395	We've got two lines reported, but we've exceeded this break deadline, so we'll leave at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62396	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, we continue with the afternoon plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the replica of the esteemed Vice President of the House, MP Željka Reiner. Here's your honor, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Madam Vice President, she's gone, Your Honor. I saw it. [[Intruder: There is a deputy minister.]] One of the things I wanted to actually ask is, and referring to what the Deputy Prime Minister said was the question of the obligation to translate the current deprivement of the business skills that are now complete in the incomplete, or partial one, because the sequence of the proposal is actually gone, as far as I understand it, completely, right? Now, won't that mean in practical life a huge problem and require a series of skills to simply translate because if you take how many cases it is, in fact, the number of cases, you can actually conclude that it's going to be a pretty complicated job that's going to cost you something, and if that, maybe, it's worth a lot, and if it doesn't, then it's not going to create, so the variant b, if it's not done, will it actually create an indirect discrimination of people, especially those who are older, who are completely deprived of their abilities and therefore, partly more recent parts depriving? In fact, the problem is, in general, the disappearance of total inability to say so because, of course, there is a form of disease where, for example, there are some extremely severe dementias, I don't know, and such conditions in which a person really doesn't have any business ability, and someone needs to worry about that person and should put it in the system. Well, that was actually my question. Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62398	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate of respected deputies for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62399	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, at the beginning of my debate, I would like to welcome and support the amendments, namely the adoption of a new law, and for many reasons. Most of them are already mentioned, I would not like to list them again but those I would like to point out anyway is, what I consider most important in this law, it is a better protection of the child, a clearer definition of parental care in the case of divorce, the fact that I hope this law and its norms will contribute to the fact that family court proceedings will no longer last as long as so far and many others. In fact, I could conduct my entire debate in the list of reasons why I welcome the adoption of a new law, since problems such as many speakers and speakers before me have pointed out in this segment many. Since I am limited in time, I would single out only a few segments of this law that I would particularly like to highlight, but I also have a few remarks for the Proposer to take into consideration when sending the law to us for another reading. First of all, about marriage and the definition of marriage that this law brings. So, one very current one, so I would dare say even the political theme of the last weeks was the referendum on marriage, i.e. on the definition of marriage in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since this law is in discussion and public debate, then through the bodies, it has passed through the working bodies of the Government and the working bodies of the Parliament and before, in fact, the referendum itself, I would particularly apostrophe Article 12 of this bill which says that marriage is regulated by law by the life union of women and men. Therefore, my opinion and attitude are that marriage at no time as a community of women and men has been compromised and that there is no fear nor will there be that marriage will continue to be defined, regardless of what it says in the Constitution as a community of women and men. What I would particularly point out in my head is the adjustment of the relationship, the rights and obligations of spouses that were not clearly defined in the previous law. This is primarily defined by restraint, regulating relations with third parties, which is, I would dare say, a sort of newspaper, or clearly defines what is individual, and what is a solidarity responsibility to third parties, the family right to housing in the marital property, which has also not been the case so far, the protection of the family home as institutions, so on and so on. A divorce is also arranged, which is partly related to the other head, it is mandatory to consult a family mediation that has also been a lot of words today, or mechanisms for respecting autonomy, but also the responsibilities of a spouse in a divorce to a child are defined at last. So, we have witnessed very often that one parent has an intense interference in the way another parent treats the child, in case he has the right to see the child and the like. Of course, this is not justified for several reasons except in case of abuse or any other violation of the right of the child, which is, of course, the center for social care to respond to these questions. But first of all, I think it will protect the child, that it will protect the child’s right to see another parent, therefore, who is not a guardian with whom the child is not constantly present and will thus protect the child’s right to be told a lot about both parents. So in the event that a child is separated parents, of course, under the impression that none of the parents are abusers or that in any other way he has sinned against the rights of his own child. The second chapter is especially highlighted by the real relationship between parents and children and the protection of the rights and well - being of the child. As a representative and an educational worker, I welcome every provision aimed at protecting children and young people. So first of all I can tell you probably by tomorrow I could talk about my experiences about a teacher’s or a teacher’s teaching internship and about the horrors that parents can do to their own child. I think she... Homo homogamous lupus there gets a whole new meaning that a parent is often a wolf to his child. We speak here from sexual to any other abuse of physical, psychological, actually until you work in the system and see how often it is present in our society. Because since all of us are more or less encouraged from organized family communities, we often find it difficult to imagine that children can live in such a very messy community and in the end these children are just the biggest victims of such a bad relationship I would dare say because child abusers and often themselves can become abusers because they simply do not know how to express either love or family relationship. My main remark, which has already been made in committee discussions in the recognition of motherhood or paternity, is specifically about the presummation of marital fatherhood. So there you have had a whole series of situations where women and men remain married formally even though they live separately for years where both men and women have other partners with whom they live often with both children and with the adoption of a child therefore live in some more or more organized communities which are not even governed by the law. But the question arises if a mother lives with her boyfriend and has a child with him means she hasn't seen her lawfully wedded husband for years, does that mean that he is automatically recorded in the child’s birth certificate as a father? This should possibly be reviewed in the light of a provision on such cases which are not rare. Here I am, too, witnessing a few of these, so for different reasons, parents didn't legally end their marriage but they have children with other people. The adoption, the adoption, is the same thing we could talk about and deserve special attention. In my former practice, it may have been even the most problematic area of this law, or very difficult for children to adopt. I've been thinking about adoption before without the parents' consent. So if we're talking about the past law he was saying that a child can't be given up for adoption if the parent is in the past, now maybe I'll lie for a year, expressed any interest in his child. In practice, it meant that a parent could once a year call the House for Unsettled Children and ask how my child and that child could not go to adoption, which was extremely traumatic for those children because it was clear that this parent would never want to care for their children but for some reason was dissipated to say the Dalmatians might not want to give up for adoption. First of all, it went to the child's harm. I certainly welcome the register of potential adoptors to make the adoption system as transparent as possible, and I would also welcome the possibility to accommodate the child with the goal of adoption. I don't think the potential adoptors are going to bring those kids back like some MPs and MPs on tape because they don't like the color of their eyes or their hair color. Keep in mind that people who decide to adopt most likely cannot have their children and want children very much. I had a case, family cases, so in my own family where my relatives couldn't have children, they went to a lot of trouble to finally adopt children, and then when they adopted them, it was a great joy for them, and also for a child who was in a home or who now has much better conditions for growing up in a normal atmosphere. And ultimately, the mandatory counselling of family mediation. Mediation is otherwise generally accepted legal practice not only in family law but also in a whole series of other rights we have non-judicial settlements and as regards trade disputes and the like, and certainly the institute needs to be welcomed. This more has been said in the debate so far, mediators do not necessarily have to be employees of the Social Care Centre, so they can be external, ensuring their impartiality and expertise, provided that they are professional in the need of education and that they have the necessary expertise. What should be pointed out in particular, and this is not only the subject of this law but I would dare say a much more far-reaching reform that is certainly waiting for Croatia in the foreseeable future, which is specialising in court practice. Family law as such is in itself extremely sensitive and complicated and precisely from judges who deal with family law as well as from lawyers in the absence of any other request of specialization. This, of course, concerns not only family practice but we can also talk about trade disputes, i.e. disputes in front of a commercial court, criminal, criminal and all others. Also... to welcome the institution of mediation, an agreement between marriages where spouses can regulate their termination of marriage and childcare. In conclusion, here is precisely because of these things that I have cited including this remark of presumption and paternity certainly this law deserves support and mine will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62400	Thank you, too. The Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I must admit, dear colleague Hajdukovic, I was a little surprised when you apostropheted this article that says that marriage is a community of women and men. I was surprised that the fact that the representatives and the highest representatives of your party and your coalition were very unisons in condemning this very same definition in the Constitution. There were many difficult words, etc. And now that's exactly what the government is proposing in the law is exactly the same definition. Isn't that a little double-faced? But the other thing that I wanted since discrimination was mentioned is very much not this law creates the inequality of women and men as biological parents of a child in terms of the establishment of motherhood and paternity, or the right to claim for the establishment of their own parenting and thereby violates the constitutional equality of a woman and a man and it is not justified neither for the welfare of a child nor for the protection of motherhood? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62402	Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow honorary academics, I will answer what I have actually pointed out in the general public debate in my remarks on the referendum. So this law was in the debate before the referendum, or before the definition of marriage became a constitutional category. However, I believe that such a definition has nothing to ask in the Constitution. The constitution is one... Therefore, one document apostrophesing guaranteed rights, values, human rights, duties and obligations of a citizen etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this definition for me in the Constitution has nothing to ask. So the law clearly defined that. And as ruling, we had no intention of changing this article. It's in the past law, so it's current, it's valid, it's 5 now it's 12. So marriage is a legally defined community of women and men. That was never the case, nor was it threatened. We are in this referendum, actually, if we've touched that already, we've sent a bad message. So no one's right is in principle limited at the end of the day, but that's where I'm going to use the word of one of my party colleagues and say that after the referendum he said it, this referendum is not, so it's not the end of the world but it's not even the beginning of a better one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62404	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Mirela Holly and her 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62405	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, unlike colleagues and colleagues on the right who have criticised this bill because they think it's too liberal in some things, I find the fundamental lack of this law to be too conservative. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that it is very good to discuss this extremely important law concerning a large number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in two readings. In fact, there are a number of provisions in this document that require careful review. During today's debate, attention has already been drawn on several occasions to the fact that the expert community is very skeptical of this bill. And it is not a good practice that three departments of family law in Croatia and no lawyer or lawyer were included in the working group for draft laws. It is not good to ignore the experience of lawyers and lawyers when making this law because these people are implementing this law in practice, working on it, and certainly their knowledge and experience can be used in a quality way to make a law that will be both sustainable and realistic. I think it is not good that the Government recognises with this proposal the impotence of the state to the institutions that are obliged to implement the laws passed by this House. In addition, one reason the government justifys the adoption of a new family law is the criticism of the European Court of Human Rights but this is the wrong argument because the criticisms of the European Court are not related to the content of family law but rather to its implementation and particularly to the slowness and ineffectiveness of Croatian courts. Will the new family law of our institution that are obliged to implement the law and, in particular, make courts a better instrument and an efficient service for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? He won't. Neither this law nor other sectoral laws that foresee different reforms can do so. It can only be a thorough, qualitative reform of public administration and justice and everything else is just a patching of holes. Only by reforming public administration and justice can we come to a situation where these institutions will become the real service of citizens and citizens of Croatia. How? By valorizing the work based on their measurable results. You don't need to invent hot water. All of this has already been done by many successful democratically developed countries in Europe and the world, so I guess we can do it too. But the basic prerequisite for this is that there is real political will to bite into that very sour lemon. Acids because there are a lot of unemployed in the system who are close to ruling political elites, so it's better not to touch them. Because let's be perfectly honest, there's a whole series of situations where you know exactly the name and last name of who caused the injuries and no one ever personally answered for it. As long as we don't establish a system of personal responsibilities every regulation we pass will simply not be enough and will remain a dead letter on paper. The idea that lawyers at the Centre for Social Welfare in the future lead the processes of the division of matrimonial property between spouses is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as to other laws and democratic principles in civilised society. In this respect, the State is obliged to ensure equality of all before the law and the right to access the court, so that for this purpose, a poorer population who cannot and cannot pay professional assistance is provided free legal assistance. It is not good to pass a law that gives unauthorized and unprofessional persons who are not responsible for errors and failures the role they must not have because it is given to another profession. As a banal example, I could mention that in Croatia, we could pass a law so that our cars are no longer repaired by auto mechanics, but it could be done by officials within some newly formed department in the ministry for free. That's not a good provision. The fact is that since the last law, if we don't count on minor changes and additions, it's been 10 years, so I believe that the conditions for the adoption of a completely new law have been obtained. And by the fact that over the past 10 years, we have had a significant increase in divorce rates, an increase in extramarital communities, married couples in the late years make up marriages, and unfortunately the number of domestic violence against children and women has increased. But compared to these new phenomena that require new regulation, this family law is quite old - fashioned, quite conservative, and there is no big newspaper. In relation to divorce, the same provisions as the old law remain as the reason for divorce. In practice so far, the court has not established the facts on which to divorce a marriage but, regardless of the reasons, it has reached a verdict that divorces. Such an attitude stemmed from the liberal interpretation of the law and the general state of society that the state should not interfere with the decisions of two adult people who wish to divorce as I naturally consider correct. However, with the appearance of the family association "In the name of the family" that introduces and imposes conservative and religious understanding of the marriage roles of women, children, faith and the like in the future, a conservative judge may refuse to divorce because the spouse did not prove in the process of having a difficult and permanent relationship or that the marriage community stopped a year ago. Such a decision would have to be taken by a senior court because it stems from the legal text, and it is up to us to consider what effect this would have on civil society and the secular state. Therefore, in the 21st century, divorce must not be conditioned by anything, especially by the consent of both sides or by the condition that you have to be insufferable or that someone does not live with you for a year and that it is only then that you have the right to refer to the court. We do not live in a religious state and the role of marriage in a secular state is different from that of marriage in a Catholic state. The number of extramarital communities in the past 10 years has been a common and everyday phenomenon among people, but it is not adequately regulated by this law, but more or less unchanged articles as in the old law. According to this law, the extramarital community is equal to marriage, but a person can live with two different persons for more than three years or have a common child and can in practice create two extramarital communities. There is a crime if more marriages are concluded, but not if more extramarital families are created. Unfortunately, even this new law did not clearly and unequivocally establish the moment of the extramarital community, so the fact in court disputes and other proceedings is often slow for itself and must initially be determined by the judge. So there is legal uncertainty, the possibility of abuse of rights. A simple solution would be to determine the start of an extramarital community on the date of a joint or contractual act among partners, e.g. a joint lecture on tax returns, joint residence applications or joint registrations in an administrative body, as well as the moment of termination, e.g. written statement of termination. Of course, the law should allow for proof of the opposite of what is referred to above, but would end the obligation of the court in 90% of the cases that, at the next 10 hearings, by hearing relatives and witnesses, it determines when and whether an extramarital community was created and when it ceased. It is clear from the law that the extramarital community is not equal to marriage, so it is not envisaged that extramarital companions can adopt children. This is defined as second-class citizens, and this clearly results in conservativeism in this law and inability to pass modern civil family law. On the other hand, one mate can adopt a marriage with the consent of another who is quite unusual. In connection with the provisions concerning property, this law has been failed in a series of solutions because a large number of articles are contrary to the Constitution which guarantees the right of ownership and the provisions of the Property Act and other real rights. Today’s generations are making marriages at a later age, and at the moment of marriage they already have their own property. Therefore, marriage enquiries appear increasingly because the same although already existing in the old law did not fully live in practice. It was therefore expected that the new Law of more than 500 articles would be much more comprehensively regulated by the said Treaty, taking the experience of other Western European states, rather than prescribing the provisions of the old law. Share justice that will live in a family home is not in line with the constitution and creates the possibility of abuse of rights by parents. The state must ensure the rapid and effective resolution of marital relations and the rights and obligations arising from them, and property opportunities should remain separate procedures as they have been so far. Of course, in the event of a threat to child's fundamental rights, the state may intervene in ownership, e.g. temporary but to a precise short time. And finally, I want to say that I hope that by the second reading, some of these strange provisions will be corrected in this law and that we will get a modern and liberal law that is similar to a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62406	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62407	Dear colleagues Holly, what is conservative to you for them is too liberal. I didn't apostrophe anyone, it's too liberal for many. For some, you may be conservative, but so are... What you have seen and what has already been said is an extramarital community. Turns out it takes three years for an extramarital community to get married, not one day, because marriage is conscious, marriage has become a constitutional category, and I think it'll be fantastic since it's a constitutional category, nothing needs to be married. Probably ever since marriage is a constitutional category, every apartment will fall on a gift. I caricate, those who don't understand, I caricate all the time, provoke but no one gets caught because they're probably ashamed to get caught up in such a thing. Normally, the extramarital community is discriminated against in adopting children. Why can't they, why two beautiful people who are in an extramarital community can't adopt a child, someone explain, especially those who wrote those laws, who propose the law. What I've been warning you all along is court practice. This country is in big trouble because we have criminal justice and it doesn't hurt anybody's head, it doesn't hurt the government's head, it doesn't hurt anybody. We've been making laws, we've been fluent in voting for them, and courts have been running processes, desert debates for 20 years. They're already children who asked for law, I speak from practice, who asked for law. Look, they already have their own children, they're already going to win some grandkids, and it's still going on in court. Until we get rid of it, we're going to have to deal with all these laws because the foundation of this society is rotten, and that's the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62408	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62409	Dear colleague, so I'll understand that you actually agreed in your replica with most of what I said. I really feel the same way that we are free of all laws and reforms in a sectoral context unless we make a thorough and qualitative reform of public administration and justice because it is precisely the fundamental instruments with which we can implement reforms. If we do not have this instrument, this service of citizens and citizens who are truly functional we can pass the best laws in the world, the most liberal or most conservative laws in the world it will not mean anything because in fact the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not be equal before the institutions of the system and before the law. I suppose you agree with me that this law is actually conservative in that part because it's a little unusual that extramarital communities are defined if you have to prove that you've actually lived with a person for three years and that it's then an extramarital community. I think that it should be regulated in a different way in law, that it should be regulated with exactly some kind of act being done, and eventually the termination and the extramarital community is being regulated by some kind of legal instrument, and then it will probably be solved and this part of the disabling of child adoption by extramarital couples. Because if we're trying to even them in some way in the Family Law, then it's normal to give them that scope of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62410	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62411	You said that this law is considered too liberal. I'd like to update. You know who thinks this law is too liberal? Those who would live liberally, but conservatively would impose others. So they're hypocrites. So they're not a bit liberal, they're just, conservative. They just think it's for the regiment. That's one thing. But I wouldn't agree with what you said, so marriage should be divorced anyway. So when someone asks. Which is why this norm has always existed, that is, since this matter of divorce was largely liberalized with us in '78. For years to protect children. There are young couples where only a bit of a fight would go straight to court. So no, and I've been doing practice for 20 years, not for 10 years. So that was early 30 years ago. There is no judge who has not divorced a marriage when the parties have endured it, or when only one said and proved where they existed, where they had underage children, where it was said exactly that relations were permanently destroyed. So there's really no fear that someone, that a judge, would insist on divorce, would deny divorce if and where there are no underage children. So, this is one I'd say fuse that young couples where there are underage children because it's in the interest of the state to have parents live together because it always doesn't work for their parents where broken relationships are gonna get divorced, but precisely because it's always because we still have trouble paying child support, then the children fall partly to the burden of the state, the costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62412	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62413	Well, esteemed colleagues, I hope you're right, and I hope so, since you still have the experience of a long-standing lawyer. I've never really had a chance to get deeper into dealing with these problems. However, when I was preparing this debate, I had a lot of communication with both lawyers and lawyers who deal with this part of the law, and they actually drew my attention to these problems. I would hate to think that some judges, let me put it this way motivated by this tide of a new conservatism, would decide in this way to interpret the Family Law because I think it might be very bad, and I can't quite agree with you that the very simple divorce in the Republic of Croatia is not. I have a very large number of friends, not friends who got divorced from their husbands. And unfortunately, I have to say that all these experiences have been extremely painful and traumatic and that these people felt that the procedure that they are coming out of such a community in which they are more unsustainable to continue to exist very, very painful, long-term and complicated, so here I believe that a modern Family Law should still go to certain liberalisation in this respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62414	Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, 10 minutes of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62415	Thank you very much. I thought I'd start out differently, but this is what you encouraged me to do to my colleague, Mirela Holly. Therefore, it is not easy to divorce because these procedures take a long time to determine who the child should belong to, and then this bill is also the law that would want to end it. I was myself a witness and in the process where the husband of the mother who wanted to divorce in front of me killed a woman, and before that there were countless crys for protection. It didn't do any good. This bill of law, the old Latina would say to the dead, at last. Why finally? Let us remember Italal Kalvin, an Italian Nobel laureate who survived Auschwitz and who often wrote about it, but later dedicated himself to writing about family, about family relations, and left us a message to all mankind, "Be careful that you don't live your life in the family the way many have spent it in Auschwitz!" And one who has little more experience of his professional can testify to the drama experienced by individual members within the family. And when it comes to the drama of any woman, any children, when many of us talked about it, and in the 1990s we were declared the destroyers of the family. I personally experienced that my answer was that the Croats did not beat their wives. That was the '90s. Of course we've all evolved since that time. However, there is still great consideration about this. But talking about these problems, talking about family, that's people talking about family, not keeping things quiet. 'Cause whenever things get quiet, it's like celebrating a family, women are celebrated and especially women are celebrated. One said don't celebrate me, give me the same rights as men and really ensure their achievement. This bill also states in its basic provisions what the previous law had, but also what was still in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in '78. the years when we will all agree that we have had the best settled status issues which were therefore the feathers of many. Not because of this, for some modernity, but because of the basic message that men and women, that partners must be equal and live their family life equally. Did you still hear that a man said, especially in politics, that a man was asked in an interview or anyone informally how you align your professional and family obligations. As long as journalists don't ask that question to men, we can tell that we have a hard time living our family lives and harmonize them with our profession. But the Constitutional Court has ordered us to be equal, that we must go on equal terms in retirement. And these provisions are easily understood, fundamental principles, that men and women are equal in marriage, that they must equally bear the burden and benefits of family life. So, together raising kids. But often men seek to trust a child with care or children when they divorce as revenge rather than as a tendency. Who forbade him not to commit all the years of his marriage to his children, but he didn't. He was justifying himself with a profession, a major engagement, he's a foster parent of the family. But it does not deprive him of his duty to dedicate himself to raising his child. And if that's how we do it, I don't see any modernity in any of ours. Many see these traditional roles to keep it that way. We can say that they are equal, but we already know whose role they are. Children suffer from this, there are older ones who have both accepted such a role and younger couples and there are no problems, there are fewer problems with children when they engage whether they are married or divorced, but they consciously carry out their duties. Therefore, all honor and thanks to such men for contributing to the development of society because they care about their children. And thank God for that, and I believe that's the way most of them are. What I would especially like to say, and teaching what I was inspired by my colleague Holly, but others who spoke about the family in a broader sense of the word, and we cannot speak when we speak if a special law is passed not to mention therefore and the aspirations of people of same-sex communities. Why these people, why we still have in principle we are for this, but I can't do this, I can't do that. And I can give you blood, I can give you organs, and even the most conservative you wouldn't wonder if it was a homosexual organ but rather give me a liver faster, give me a kidney now it's my turn. I can go to the army, no one asks him what your orientation is. That for an act, that's another thing. But in the front lines of death it may even be desirable. What are we discussing? Let's stop being hypocrites and everything will be easy. So, my freedom, my freedom, what you want for yourself, give to others. That's the basic message. That's why I like them, and by my taste, the law could have been even more advanced, but the government still listens to any citizen because the laws are a reflection of the development of society. They must, of course, assume what is happening and some events are foreseen in order to have a covered law. It's those who have visions, and that's what happens in this bill. In my view, it would not be controversial or surrogate motherhood, especially when we have, of course, all free of charge cannot be a matter of trade, and especially in conditions where Croatia is experiencing a strong depopulation of any form that is not violence, which is love and which is a tendency must be because if all these acts are selfless in the creation of a new life shouldn't be a problem. However, when creating a new life that is so out of selflessness and which is not violence is often opened, many experts say we will open a wide discussion but when it is killed and asked there is no broad discussion. So when life is destroyed, there are no extra reasons why, but here there are many ethicians and different professions who are invited to talk about it. I would have several comments, or perhaps small suggestions, by some articles. So, the forms of marriage, we used to have a power of attorney. I believe it's now given the speed of yet life of living that no one's question of transportation is any longer a burden for someone to conclude in such a way of marriage, but you might even consider it because there are such cases. See Article 31 of this article: How loyal marriage mates are to one another, to help one another, to support one another, and to support one another. But they're equally obliged to raise children together. That's what I'm asking, so they can't just negotiate because it's every parent's duty, so they can't make a deal with each other, I'm gonna break out and you're gonna do this. As long as he can, he always owes and raises his own children. I like this provision of matrimonial property in copyrights where the wife is mostly a server, they are artists painters, and so there were such demands that it was just their property, so that's good. Of course, it is a good special provision to protect the welfare of children and family life. A lot of the souls of the barbers ask a question and property, is that the injured property? What about the child and the woman who leaves the night at night from her violent husband or is expelled, whose right is that? I guess the right of the child is more important than the right thing to do. So I don't think it should be slow about that. At the end of the marriage in Article 47, I don’t think we should be helping here in religious form or some kind of auxiliary prosthetic, religious form of marriage conclusion. So even such people have the right to feel that they should not go to the matrimonials, that their marriage is forever, that with great pomps and celebrations with pictures of the public went to the wedding, so a little respecting the mother, we don't need the mother but marriage is falling apart, knocking like this secretly on the doors of the state or courts to divorce them, and then we should say, we should be consistent in that we can't say that their breakdown from marriage isn't good, but in any case not to affect that marriage in such a way, it should be said to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62416	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62417	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Associates. So here's before we got the bill on the bench I think we could read a lot in the media, there were top issues that were essentially about the importance of this law, of all interested in this law. However, we can also say that the state of family legal protection of children and adult family members is under the care of the Republic of Croatia that it is not satisfactory. I will today speak from the aspect of doctors, or child psychiatrists, and from the aspect of practitioners, social workers. When you look at practitioners who unfortunately have few children’s psychiatrists, then we can say that their lives or their work with traumatized children are very difficult at a time when they may have begun every fifth marriage was separated, but now as the years go by, as their number of traumatized children increases as well as the number of divorces. Of course, it's about highly conflicting divorces. Divorces last long, conflicts last long. Children actually fall under emotional stress, parents’ stress and naturally change in children who lead to trauma and eventually end up with children’s psychiatrists. It is also said about prevention, it would be most ideal that we can work on prevention, but unfortunately what is seen in practice is that the current mechanisms have failed to reduce the rate of children or the number of children coming from such child psychiatrists over a certain period of years. Thus, no system in the judiciary or social care had any mechanisms to stop child manipulation in the highly conflicting divorce of marriages. Of course it's our duty as politicians, as people who deal in this segment, that it's our duty to prevent this conflict and actually to manifest such a conflict on a child. In fact, this law certainly gives some new mechanisms and introduces new mechanisms into a system that can actually stop or prevent such manipulations of parents. When we look at the legal counsel reports that we mentioned today, we see a problem that actually relates to problems that have been repeated for years in relation to children, which is from disrespecting the right of the child to express their views in divorce procedures, then with poor monitoring measures of parental care, long-term adoption procedures, that family procedures, courts take a very long time, judicial cooperation and social care centres are not satisfactory, etc., etc. So, all of this stands, all of this, and in this way through this family law, it really wants to be corrected. In law, the paper is just an obligation to consult when it comes to divorce and mediation as an alternative way of resolving the dispute. When we say what counseling is? Well, we are obliged to actually get to know parents with a plan on parental care and providing assistance, getting to know the benefits of family medicine, meeting marriage mates with the complexity of judicial divorce procedures without a parental care plan. When we talk about family mediation, I wouldn't say that we have a magic wand that will solve all the problems in that way, but it will certainly help. The possible problem in this case is actually a small number of educated experts because this area regardless of the education that these experts have is very difficult, which is why you will probably think about who can go to what education these mediators are, or during the implementation you will actually see possible improvement of them if you see something wrong. It is good that the family centers, I repeat the family centers that have been spoken about today, will essentially become or continue with the practice of advisory therapy centers. We know examples and bad examples that they have done so but we also have examples of good examples that they have only been educated. Thus, such experts need to continue with these programs. I hope that all those programs that have already started working in family centers will actually continue as programs no matter what their names are called and which was a uniform unit of what. My attention was also drawn in the first part to the principle of urgency, which was in line with international regulations. I sincerely hope that this will work, namely the mechanisms of control over the implementation of this principle, which were intended to create a right that is friendly for children, which means that other than courts, now and other bodies, are primarily meant by the social care center, they must, in a hasty and flexible way, actually meet their obligations. It does not have to be noted that the length of actions that have been extended, or that it has been a long time to further traumatize the child, which, of course, makes it difficult for him to recover after the divorce. I repeat, article 34 that will solve the problem of housing after divorce. This problem has often been caused by conflictal relations and beyond. It happens that a man threw his wife and children out of a joint apartment or he'd stay living under the same roof, but that those relationships were very, very conflicting still. So I only say that in the part where you think about a child, that a child should stay in the familiar environment, that a child should not change the school, that no kindergarten should be changed, etc. These property and legal relations are determined by another law, not this. Then I welcome Article 103. This is temporary confidence in the child’s care of other persons, which states that trusting the daily care of the child’s personal rights establishes social welfare or foster care based on the consent of the parent, which understands the child’s accommodation under the Social Care Act. He can't last more than six months. What does that mean? This means that any child who has been placed for more than 6 months under the Law on Social Care or the consent of parents of a social, care institution or foster family will be. We have two options. This has been returned to the family to parents who, at the same time, will be given one of the measures to protect the child’s rights and well - being, or left for the accommodation of social care facilities or foster families, but based on an assessment of the welfare center. So this article of the law is very, very important because this way kill is solved and those practices in welfare centres, which happened there. There it is most often in the procedures they went to the accommodation of a child in a home or foster home according to the article in the Social Care Act, when they spoke of them as having no means to live. And now the social care center, unfortunately, has often played it so, the children stayed in the institution, traumatized possibly, no one took care of them, and we have foster parents waiting or foster parents who are actually waiting to have those children. Here, therefore, through a series of articles in this law, the role of the social care centre is clearly defined. As far as expressing measures towards parents and working with families are concerned, there are clearly defined deadlines, a way of reporting on what has been done, thus social workers say that they have finally received an instrument and protocol on how to act in order to actually work on child protection. I can therefore say that, in addition to what I have already said, the obligations of the social care centre have been clearly stated, especially in these procedures in the case of family problems and in the case of custody. Such a law should actually prevent a series of problems in the system and determine individual responsibilities during their implementation and I would say, in fact, that the law is a dead letter on paper, some laws. I hope this Family Law has changed until the second reading, but it will also be very much alive because it needs to be adapted to life and of course there will be other changes. Thank you very much. Of course, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62418	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62419	Dear President, the respected deputy ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of her debate, a colleague of Shimac-Bonacic said this was a top topic. I agree that this is a great and important law, but the very presence of MPs here in the assembly unfortunately does not confirm our common thesis. Let me at the beginning of the debate show satisfaction with one fact, therefore, by the fact that the debate on Family Law as a law that ensures greater scope of human rights, especially those related to the weakest, most unprotected in society, so for our children, is happening on this very day. Today is the international, or world day of human rights. So on December 10th, the whole world is marked as the International Day of Human Rights. I remind you, this day is founded on the honor of signing the General Declaration of Human Rights. The family law that we are discussing today brings a number of newspapers that will certainly contribute to better protection of these very human rights. And I only want to talk about one of these newspapers, so to end the total depravity of business ability and the introduction of a limited business ability institute. So far in Croatia, we have only had an institution to deprive business ability and it is interesting that we are above the EU average at the frequency of using the institute. So, according to the 2012 data in Croatia, more than 16,600 people were deprived of their business skills. A man always asks himself in such situations if that high figure maintains a real state? Are all these people really completely commercially incompetent? Therefore, deprivement of business ability is a safeguard mechanism that seeks to protect the rights and interests of persons who are unable to care for themselves, their rights and interests, or who threaten the same rights of others. However, numerous examples from our daily practice pointed to the need for a thorough reform of the system of custody of adults. I personally received a lot of questions from the parents of people deprived of their business skills, which is why they cannot even vote in the elections, so why can't I use at least some partial right when they're already deprived of full business skills. The comparisons work in neighbouring Slovenia and even people with mental disorders have the right to vote, so they can participate in elections for MPs in the state parliament, for the president of the state, etc. I would also like to remind you of a report by the Ombudsman several years ago, and I think it is a report for 2009 or 2010 in which the Ombudsman also warned about the need for reform of the existing legislative framework in relation to the definition of business capacity. According to his recommendation, the amendments to legislation should be based on international human rights standards guaranteeing the fundamental right to self-determination on the principles of respect for human rights with the protection of dignity and the prohibition of any discrimination. In the opinion of the Public Advocate, the age-olds who are now under custody should be entitled to family life and marriage, the right to vote in the elections, the right to access to court, the right to work and, of course, the conclusion of work contracts. This law that we're discussing today is an opportunity for a person to be completely deprived of his business skills. The law therefore determines that in each individual case, the court will determine through an extra-party procedure in which part of a person whether he or she is unable to care for any of his or her rights, needs or interests or endangers the rights and interests of other persons, and only in that part will that person be deprived of his or her business ability. It is necessary to request the opinion of a medical professional on the health status of a person who is being initiated in the process of deprivement of his or her professional ability before making a solution. In that decision, the court must specify precisely which actions and tasks a person is unable to carry out on his own with regard to personal and property decisions. When it comes to actions and personal affairs, then it is meant to change the personal name, to make marriages, so it is a decision regarding your own health, to change your place of residence or residence, to make employment decisions and so on. In the case of transactions and transactions, it is then available to the property, pay or other permanent incomes, to specify the amount of the income or property the person cannot own. For all other jobs or actions, a person has a business capacity and can take them on his own. Thus, the law introduces less restrictive instruments that provide assistance and support to these persons in making decisions without immediately resorting to the deprivement of their business ability and to endanger their independence and, above all, human dignity. I think it is indeed one big step that opens new horizons to the target group of Croatian citizens. They themselves say restoring business ability is a new life and providing them with greater opportunities to consume certain rights, in one word a better quality life and that is certainly the basis for this law to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62420	Thank you, too. Replica, respected representatives of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62421	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleagues, Jelash, correct me if I don't understand correctly, but you said that people with deprived business skills have no right to vote. Well, for the sake of truth, the latest amendments to the Law on the register of voters are allowed for persons deprived of their business ability to vote and have that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62422	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62423	Thank you very much, President. Well, here's something to say about this family law. In 2011, a census was made, so on the subject of this Family Law, only some data was made. 52.8% of Croatian citizens or millions and 918 thousand 974 people live in the marriage community. In extramarital 2.7% or 97 thousand 772 people. In same-sex communities 140 people or 0.004%. There's a million 615,575 free people they don't live in any community. It's data from the list. A married million and 2 thousand 207 men, a woman married to a million 6 grand 532. There is one small difference that censusors interpret as a result of the definition of the total population and a specific place of residence, which accounts for 58% of married men and 53% of women, single men 35%, single women 24%. The widow has 3%, and the widow is 18%, which means that women live longer even though we hear here in the Croatian Parliament that there are certain areas where they are highly discriminated against. 4% of men and 5% of women were divorced. It's obvious that women get divorced more often. There are 28.3% of single women in Zagreb. Families in total 215,865, 37,000 families less than in 2001. 373 thousand families live in single households. That's the input data for the debate, so let's see what we're dealing with. What does this law even mean for those who live in a marriage community, in an extramarital, same-sex marriage? We will, and we have heard a great deal of concern today, a lot of problems, mostly the most common concepts used, discrimination, certain problems within the family, etc. Says article 12. Marriage is a legally arranged community of women and men. And that was where the debates were held for a full 5.6 months from the referendum, i.e. From collecting signatures to referenda. And now that everything's okay with the law. No one seems to mind as soon as it says in the Constitution as the people say 66%, two-thirds is already a great discrimination. Strong discrimination not to say the more difficult words that we had to endure in that public debate than, and I'd rather not even speak, because what I should now say about this law if we apply the same thing in the same way. How come at one point when we suggest the same definition is what O.K. is, at another point, it's very, very discriminatory? It's human rights day, we hear. This morning I'm listening to a show about human rights, but in the studio of two women, there's no man anywhere. And it's always the same story. Women are discriminated against. I'm asking a colleague to tell me what rights they don't have. There's a colleague here, so let's compare them to male rights. Do we men have the same rights or do we not have others? If this didn't get the wrong way, I wouldn't mind those stories, but as this started sometimes, I feel like we're gonna have to bring in this blue phone for men, the S.O.S. phone. Because of all the discrimination, we see from the data that there are all kinds of data that could be brought into question and who did, which is why he did something. And it's always mostly men who are guilty because it's a historical heritage and tradition that they're let's say macho, or physically maybe they're stronger and now they're highly discriminated. Do we have cases in reverse? Can a woman discriminate against a man? And that's the question. Is this law settled? We've seen some attempts. So, in that sense, it would be discussed and probably not a solution would be found. Probably because they'll always stay in the air, so the woman is still less, here in the Parliament there are fewer than men. There are fewer in the leading state functions, so there should be so many and so many percentages on the lists, etc. And we have to deal with it through some laws. I make this clear because sometimes I feel that in this modern time when modernism is very important, some features of our society are lost and everything that comes from the side, from some films, from some other countries, becomes very important without thinking about what we have. And these are the numbers I was talking about. An out-of-marriage community. Is it better to be in an out-of-marriage community or married? What's the difference? This law says you can't adopt a child and it's your last name. You can't take someone else's name. Is it worth it enough to live in an out-of-marriage community or want to get married? Well, as it's started, I think we're going to have more and more of these in the extramarital or extramarital community, now there's 2.7%. Croatians still want to live, Croatian citizens want to live in marriage regardless of what they are told. But then there's the marriage contract. Now it's a question of whether we've seen it before. There's a sea of movies on that subject. Someone kills someone for life insurance and they sign a marriage contract. Or premarital, okay. [[Invader: Premarital]] Let's get that in, okay? Let's go with it, it'll all be clear the moment we don't want to live together anymore. What you brought, what I brought, so when we get a nice divorce, the court has no business anymore, they say it's modern and it should be. But the problem with our society is that we have less and less resources to live for. I think that's where the basic problems begin, why our families and communities fall apart in various forms. He says one saying that even a healthy man gets sick without money. And that's true. And in Croatia we have been experiencing these problems for the past few years. And family. The money goes missing, the job runs out, the first blow that follows after losing a job, the lack of money happens in the lowest community, the family and there is violence and some disagreements, to divorces, to everything this law can and cannot foresee, cannot be formatted at all as to what to say. There is no article that can solve this except for economic growth, GDP growth, surplus money in the register, surpluses and help those who want to live from their work in a way that they get a job, that they try to save family, children together because everything else I say could then be very easy to resolve by the laws. And at the end of the mediation as a new concept, I think we've had something like this before, trying to. I don't believe much in that story that those who want to divorce that it takes seven attempts or a few months to recheck their thoughts. Some say there will be success in showing this data 10.15% that it can be preserved. So if that's true, let it be introduced, but I think the question again is who will be these mediators, how at all become a mediator within a family who wants to break up or divorce because of some problems they obviously have in everyday life. And how can he, by his speech at all, turn his knowledge into a gain to keep that community inside his problems and keep leaving them for another year or two or more, so maybe they stay forever or something that we may not expect to happen? These are all issues that remain open and this law certainly cannot resolve it. Here's what I think I've been trying to do is kind of practically share some experience because I think this data is alarming and something needs to be done, but I think all of these media attacks, especially on this family-name association, have done a lot of things wrong in the opposite direction of what the Family Law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62424	Thank you very much. Now we're going to have a dozen replicas. The first replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62425	You're wondering what we got with that constitutional level, why so much pomp about it, about raising the definition of marriage to a constitutional level when that's what the law solves, after all, and the existing law. For years, for decades, we have always had a definition of marriage in our family law that used to be called the Law of Marriage and Family Relations, that marriage is a legally arranged community of men and women. Now we have two definitions, now we have at the level of the Constitution an extramarital community practically in the definition equal to, the marriage community is equal to the extramarital community, that marriage is a community of men and women, and the family law says the law is regulated, so there must be some assumptions. And fortunately, earlier in the Constitution, we had a provision that marriage was of particular interest so that we compensated for something, otherwise we would find ourselves in trouble, but now it's already groundless. You're talking about the percentages of how many people live in marriage, but the fact is that if we continue with this trend, we will achieve an average of Europe where each third marriage falls apart. We're here somewhere right now already that every fourth marriage is falling apart, and 10 or more years ago it was just every fifth. Main, one of the main causes other than disagreements, individualist approach, unpreparedness of communication, which is why we need this civic education so much to respect the other, to learn, not to teach our children to end all problems by getting married, new obligations arise. And well said one who wasn't very popular so I won't tell him his name now, it doesn't matter his name, says that often people are prisoners of their illusions. They think all the problems are being solved by themselves there, as some think that in the European Union, all the problems are being solved.... But one of the important reasons is abuse, and 9 out of 10, 9 are abusers, just 1 abuser.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62426	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62427	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, I say I cited why in the law yes, in the Constitution there was a problem. So we in the Constitution have, say, islands or water or forests are of particular interest to this country and then the Law on Islands, the Law on Waters, Forests, etc. was implemented. Now we've had one reverse process, we've had this in law now, so we put it back up in the Constitution, now that we first adopt the Constitution. Once inside, this law is then elaborated on what has entered... so strictly legal or formal. It doesn't matter, someone's politicizing it, that's the basic question. People have suddenly begun to commit themselves, I'm against, I'm against, many in ignorance, many in various false information. But what this says here is a million and 918 thousand people in the marriage community, however, has shown that, first of all, I didn't think at any time that these people should be called the names they were called, quite unwarranted. I don't think these people hate it, that these people can be what they've been told, and they live in a marriage community. It doesn't make sense to each other. It was a false interpretation. It was trying to hunt everyone by word, and it's all legitimate, but the people did say what I think it was supposed to be and so it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62428	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62429	Dear counterpart Boris, it was not a discriminatory or discriminatory definition of marriage, nor was it interpreted as discriminatory. In my view, a part of Croatian citizens will be discriminated against now. I'll give you the same thing with some statistic that can be a damn lie, you know that. The 10 couples I know that were to be married, half of them gave up this hysteria that's been going on for six months... You can't stand it even, you jump to every different opinion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Of the 10 couples 5 won't get married, they said for so long until the definition of marriage comes out of the Constitution. This will make a million-and-a-half of them very soon just married. So if you think you've done well we'll hopefully see in a few years so we'll see what you've done with that definition of marriage in the Constitution. And what you're saying is that there are, I suppose, discriminated men, absolutely certain they exist. It doesn't have to and there's an SOS, you don't even know about men, it exists just as much as it does for women. You seem to be in this happy marriage where you're not subject to it, so you don't have to answer those phones. It is necessary to fight all kinds of discrimination, including discrimination against men, and also discrimination against all minorities who are just thanks to the hysteria that has appeared in Croatia being discriminated against and will now be discriminated against by the Constitution, but it is nothing. What's worth the minorities, it looks like nothing. All we've been doing lately is depriving human rights in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62430	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62431	My colleague Vuksic, I do not think that because some have decided that because marriage is now in the Constitution that they will no longer be married, so until it comes out, etc., it is possible. I'm not going to make an elephant out of flies, mostly this here in Croatia happens to be made of some minor part, here I had a feeling in that noise that these people really had a few million, believe me. We see what's registered, what the list has done. It's the only official information we can talk about. And I'm not against their rights, let them have what they want. But you say there's a phone for men, I didn't know that. Even though I live in a happy marriage alone, I look only at women's associations, there are as many of them as you want, I don't know men except the Dalmatian benches. They're male associations. They're singing. There are sports associations, but there are both men and women. But I only know these Dalmatian benches and those of ours who sing. There's nothing else we can do, so we can complain somewhere. Who am I gonna complain to? For what? Should I tell him I'm being discriminated against? Who? And we've been listening to that story all along. I'm asking someone to tell me what real woman doesn't have in Croatian society. Here, we'll compare. I'll say if we have the same one or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62432	Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62433	Dear colleague, I don't know at all how I'd understand your argument except as a rather distasteful provocation. In fact, either you don't understand what discrimination is and how discrimination is manifested at all. It seems to me that you are bothered by the very fact that 25% of women sit in Parliament and that it endangers you in your 75% that sits in Parliament. Unfortunately, these situations aren't that rare. I had a chance to talk to some people in politics, men who complained that the only way to get on a list for a particular representative body was to change sex. Is that what we're going to do? I think if you feel discriminated against in a position where 75% of men sit in Parliament and because on a show that deals with human rights there were two women, not women and men, then I don't really understand what we're talking about here. Are you saying that domestic violence is dominated by such a guy that men are the ones who are suffering? Well, I guess society needs to protect those who are threatened, not those who are in the position of domination. I really don't understand what the point of your debate was at all except to cause a certain controversy of this type.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62434	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62435	Dear colleagues, every debate here understands the way it suits him. You saw her as a provocation. Maybe someone else isn't like that. Well, we're not all equal. And now am I going to say that I'm being discriminated because when we vote here, I don't always know there's 80 there, and we're 30 or 40. Well, then it's kind of discrimination if that's how we simplify it. We're all being discriminated somewhere. I've cited some examples. Maybe you misread it. It wasn't my intention to say it wasn't right. It wasn't my intention. But we opened up one discussion and in the other direction, maybe it's wrong, maybe it's neither the time nor the place to talk about it because we should always listen to something else. I don't agree with that, as I don't agree with the fact that you were the only appointed minister because of some part that some others might have done. Now, whether it's discrimination or not, it's possible. I might understand it that way. Maybe you won't understand it, but let's let people do it. This is where the state wants to modernize itself. Here we have Family Law 550 articles, all the way down to detail. Shall we solve the problem? And we probably won't. I was talking about that other material problem that may be causing the most problems, which no article can solve. Maybe somebody likes it, maybe not. We're all people here who talk about what they think, what they think. And we represent someone here, so I won't say that I'm discriminated against your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62436	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62437	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you've been very good at detecting problems. In fact, in our society, we should do a serious study on how much discrimination there is on both sides. So how many secret ones do they like to say crawling where men don't answer? Here you don't know that there's even a phone to help men who are being discriminated on, and I've been sewing on a colleague, a doctor who's been beaten by a woman like an ox in a cabbage, like a surgeon. The second woman killed her husband because he wouldn't let her watch the show on Turkish TV, and she killed him. There are such things in this society, and it should be recorded, questioned, and not accused of you, and I don't know any others who have a different opinion, or maybe I don't know they're thinking straight, let's just say. But it is true that the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia has led to what they say in the empty house horns in the bag. That's how it is, when the empty house is then it's... All together and the whole family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So both husband and wife and children etc. Especially if expenditures are inaccessible to people it always happens. As for the last name and this extramarital community, let him take his wife's husband. As there are cases in Croatia, here I think among ministers to take a husband's wife's last name and a football player took his last name to me in Belgrade, his wife's last name. The rabbit was, and he became Bobek, and he married Bobek's daughter, Bobek's soccer player, and he became Bobek, and he was the Rabbit's last name. So it's not a problem at all. We have a law, where we are fortunate to be able to act on it by men and women and there is no discrimination, but unfortunately life is quite different. After all, let's all go together. There were all kinds of speakers here. Let them take an example, let them say their problems. We keep quiet about them, normally it's our private business. But no one here would throw away the first stone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62438	There's no response to the replica. Let's go to the next one. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62439	Well, my colleague, Boris, although actually my colleague Holly has already spent quite well what I was going to say and how I was going to react to your debate. But I still think it's worth it again. In fact, you were wondering in your debate what rights we women don't have in relation to men. So here's the fact that you men in this assembly are 25%, pardon 75%, and the woman is only 25% already that fact herself says how many women are in an unequal position. With the fact that I have to point out that after the election, we were only 23%, and this number to 25 only increased when men went into executive power with one number. Furthermore, you find it with a very obvious dissatisfaction that men are more guilty without women being so guilty. So if we apply it to domestic violence in 75% of cases, abusers are men again, and 25% are women and others. So it is clear again that domestic violence is born conditioned and, of course, that men are more to blame by that logic than women. Or you're also a supporter of those men's thesis that women actually cause, and then men have to react by nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62440	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62441	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jelash, I didn't quite understand this part of the odds. I think the human right or that your right to be in Parliament is being used. So there are women in the Croatian Parliament. Now, is the number enough? What's that all about? About the activities of women politicians or men who are primarily let's say more in politics than women. But to be caught up with by women is also a trend. Well, we'll see about the next election. Well, it can't all be solved in 20 years of young democracy and a few choices, let's just let it go like other modern societies. Well, some of us have 40 years more democracy, so we can't be all the same as the ones in Germany or somewhere else, jumping a few steps right now. But I guess the time will mature for Croatian citizens to recognize, too, I guess. I think it's the right to be there just as much as we do. Now, is the quota something that's right now, and if we bring it down to the quota only then we have a problem if we can agree. I wish there was a quality above that quantity no matter what in the sense of not us here but to be a primary condition. Now, when's that gonna be? So let's make it to the next election. I personally don't want to discriminate on anyone on that basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62442	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica. Let us conduct a debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62443	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Boric, I was very sorry to hear a part of your debate. I don't know why or how you started this story in the first place, that, say, discrimination against women or the fight against this discrimination came from outside and through movies. Well, I know you as one normal male person to communicate with. I haven't noticed that you've been discriminated against, and I believe you've felt discriminated against in order to work it out very well somewhere in the ring with a team that we can't, of course. Why are there fewer of us? We've got tools, we don't have a quota, and that's why there's less of us to sit there. Because while we're sitting here doing our children's questions about how they're at school, is lunch ready, they've been sleeping and eating? What happens tomorrow, is it ironed? While the rest of you sit there male or not sitting, you're not much, carefree, and you're thinking about how you're going to put the list together. It is my colleague, I love you, I don't believe that from the island you can so no matter what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62444	Thank you very much. No reply to replica Is there? [[Intruder Boric: There is, there is.]] Then give a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62445	Well, a very short answer. That's why I mentioned the Blue Phone, Mr. President, but for men this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62446	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62447	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I join the opinions and discussions of my colleagues in replicas, but once you have called us fellow Boric to literally present information in which we are all less present, let's start with the Parliament. She already said Mrs. Jelesh 24% of us are here. Out of 21 counties in the Republic of Croatia only 1 is the mayor, of 127 cities only 11 are the mayors who run them. In 429 municipalities there are only 25 chiefs, and 17% of us are units of local self-government. 10% are less paid women for the same job as men. In the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, colleagues considered the most significant institution are less than 10% women, none are in the presidency of the HAZU. In companies in the Republic of Croatia owned by the Republic of Croatia, therefore on boards, 25% is only a woman, and all research proves that in those companies, in those offices where there are more women and companies are better, they have better results, they are more profitable. And those units of local self-government in which there are more women are even more successful, according to the development index, are more successful. Smartly, I think enough, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62448	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62449	I accept all this, and the message is that this government of ours, which is quite manly, is being introduced by some of these. There can be no choice, no quotas, and then the Minister a little more as Mrs. Opacic and a few more, and hopefully we'll get better. Here, if you don't mind. Because everything you said was about success. We have little problems in the executive government, there we can appoint without a lot of quotas and the prime minister has only the task of selecting good associates. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62450	A new replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62451	Thank you. My colleague Boric wasn't easy for you earlier, it's called that scene I'm up against all. So, in your debate, you touched an institute that wasn't much of a talk today, which is a marriage contract. This institute should perhaps have been a little bit different and a little bit more detailed because the marriage contract is according to the theory of the category of agro-Saxon legal school and some of their traditions and then when it tries to apply to our space, so here it is unlikely that our environment will accept some of the materials of marital overlonging, bargaining in the way it is basically set up. In fact, when the law is read, it is evident that the purpose of this marriage contract is to resume divorce because it facilitates the position in the case of divorce, reduces judicial costs, and excludes any heirs. So it assumes divorce is the opposite thing. We should in some way at least declareably stimulate the duration of some kind of marriage, but good. What bothers me a little is that this marriage contract can in one part and in most part exclude certain provisions of this basic marriage law, as you agree to, contract as discretionary will of both parties, so it will be and the law does not apply in that part. So that's one thing to think about, is that exactly the best legal institute for what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62452	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62453	Thank you. Dear President, colleague Boric, so I'd say your debate was in an untasteful tone. You started by listing the statistics, so you said the same thing, and that's where I realized where you went from when you specifically emphasized the statistics, so you laughed like that, the sheriff's women get divorced more often, so now I don't know where they're getting divorced from, I guess from men if it's still a marriage community. Then you went on to say that it's not true that men are always guilty and so forth, whether a woman can discriminate against a man and so on, can, there are such cases, but the fact is that in the marriage community it is mostly men who are violent and not because of money problems but mostly because of alcoholism and other problems. Unfortunately, when a man hits a woman, then there's a lead, and now that a woman hits a man, maybe he's a little stronger than me, he's hardly gonna do anything to him. I must say, because speakers from all sides and before mentioning it, and in this law it is said that it must not happen that a former spouse cannot see children because his wife does not allow it because she is angry with him. That's what we used to say when we were working in a debate about the child's attorney, etc. And that's exactly what it's all about, and that relationship has to be the same, and when you ask which women's rights don't have, whether they're discriminated against, they are. I'm going to ask you when your men are on a job interview because you're going to have, how much you're going to have, do you have a girlfriend, that is. my boyfriend doesn't ask you that because you guys still as far as I know men can't be pregnant and women can, so that's what bothers the employer and often don't hire a woman who's about to give birth or she's pregnant. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62454	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62455	My colleague Posavac, I didn't say anything sheriffly, I was telling the data, 4% divorced men and 5% women, it suggests that women get divorced more often and I didn't say anything afterwards. And now from who? But that's the statistics from the Bureau of Statistics. I didn't make them up, as they say. Indeed, after today's debate, I will find it more difficult to get involved in the story of discrimination, very difficult, especially on women's rights and on the rights of men we will deal with it in these short circles because I feel that a lot of things have been misunderstood here even though I have been trying to talk about the real problems in which the family is and for that I have put the data outside to know what frameworks we are moving within the Republic with no bad intention of anyone, especially to discriminate or disdain anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62456	Dear colleague, we will all talk a lot more about building a system that is better than today and I have work to do on building social systems of equality not only for men and women but for many disfellowshipped groups in society. Today is Human Rights Day, I heard there are 2,000 homeless in Croatia. This does not mean that there is still no problem between women's or equality as a backdrop of the past, we have to deal with it. It's not a question. Finally respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić will be finally elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62457	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, except for some very small and short-lived moments, I must admit that today I felt very good in the debate assembly that has been running around the Family Law since this morning. I think the debate was very argumentative, that it wasn't politicized. It just shows that everyone is aware that it's a very complex law and a very sensitive matter that really needs to be exchanged certain views agreed or disagreed with, but this is where the word simply means everything that is thought about the law, and I really have to admit that I am satisfied today. We'll consider all your suggestions, all your suggestions, what you've turned our attention to, that maybe we haven't done enough work and I'll see you in the second reading most likely when you start after New Year's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62458	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal when the conditions are met. Let's go to the Family Law proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 544. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. It's a family law proposal, first of all. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour, 15 votes against and seven abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62461	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is the second reading of the Social Care Act, as we have also pointed out in our first reading here, is about reform law, it is about a law that brings a number of newspapers, a series of new institutes, improvements of existing institutes and regulation in a different improved way. Thus, in the area of cash compensation, the proposed law introduces a minimum wage guarantee institute. It's a new form of cash compensation that combines 4 former fees, all 4 with the social component. So it combines the extended cash compensation that has so far been arranged by the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, maintenance aid or as we call it the social assistance of this classical, which is governed by the Social Care Act and the two supplies. One governed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families and the other by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. In accordance with the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, according to available means, prescribe the level of the basis for establishing the guaranteed minimum fee. According to current calculations, it is 800 kuna, which is a significant increase compared to the previous 500. There is also an intention to bring more social component charges into the guaranteed minimum compensation. Namely, the catalogue of all rights and fees in the Republic of Croatia is 81 right or compensation, and certainly there is still room for the completion of the guaranteeed minimum fees for some of the benefits contained in the social component. The introduction of a guaranteed minimum fee is also the first step towards the introduction of one stop shop or Office all in one place or the introduction of a single monetary centre. The minimum fee would be the first fee to be paid in it. By the middle of next year, they are already planning to set up the first ones to stop shops, which would also significantly disburse social care centres from the fees and administrations themselves. In addition, informing the social care system and networking of the system with other systems, while the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has already completed the conclusion of a data exchange agreement with other institutions and bodies of the state administration, all for the purpose of the exchange of data on users and their property and incomes, thus simplifying the process of recognition and exercise of rights. Information is also a necessary prerequisite for setting up an office all in one place. In addition, in order to influence the direction of social benefits towards those most needed and to ensure that those who aim better clearly defined the property censorship in both previous law and previous laws was defined by the property census. It is now somewhat different from that defined or defined by the property owned by the users or members of the household which is an obstacle to the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. In this way, of course, our intention is also to direct the guaranteed minimum fee to those users who need the help of the country to achieve the basic needs of life. The proposed law of normation in the welfare system also sets out support for school textbooks. They are normised in the regulations of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and it is also governed by the provisions of this law by better protection of singles and single parents as a beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee, since these user groups are recognised by the provisions of the proposed law as having the right to a guaranteed minimum fee of 100% of the basis established by the Government, while other users of the household are given a minimum household fee of 60%. The proposed law also promotes the activation of unemployed, labour-efficient social assistance users in a number of ways. The person who is registered in the HZZ records if he refuses to offer employment shall no longer be the beneficiary of the minimum fee offered by automatic means from next month. And equally, persons not registered as unemployed in the employment department cannot be users of minimum fees. However, this law also defines the maximum amount of the minimum fee guaranteed in such a way that it cannot exceed the minimum gross salary in the Republic of Croatia. So far, practice and our experience have been saying something else, individuals have been able to achieve by cumulation of certain aids and even 100% of the amount of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So on fees, they were far more effective than their income could be with work. As a result, we limit the guaranteed minimum fee to 2,900 kuna but what is a newspaper and what some foreign experience has shown us that it is very good because of the retention and motivation of the person to stay in the world of work is that by hiring a long-term unemployed user guaranteed minimum benefits from his employment the benefits do not cease to be automatic. It's paying off for another three months. It's just going out for the fourth month. The 1st month goes 100%, 2nd month at 50% and 3rd month at 25%. All of these measures, along with another one that we have complemented between the two readings, are actually aimed at encouraging employment or labour activation of users guaranteed minimum fees. The proposed law also introduces the non-suspensive effect of the appeal in the procedures for the exercise of the right under the social care system, so the appeal will not delay the implementation of the solution. The law also provides for the introduction of a record institute, real estate claims to ensure payment of the funds paid on behalf of the guaranteed minimum fee, i.e. accommodation or stay services. We also more clearly define the provisions on compensation from the heirs of the beneficiary, i.e. the donor, in the event of the death of the user whose full or part of the compensation is paid out of the State budget in the name of the fee. It also provides a whole part of this law with a transparent and fair way of contracting social services, which means that all service providers in the service price network will form the basis of a unique methodology for calculating the price of services that will be clearly defined by sublaws. On 19 November this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a proposal for a social care law. Among the two readings were added with nomotechnical, certain nomotechnical improvements and perhaps a slightly different schedule of some articles and chapters. Another new thing has been introduced, and this is one new measure for the activation of users of guaranteed minimum fees. In cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, in the final draft of the law, we have introduced an obligation of working or part-time working male or member of the household to respond to the call of the unit of local, regional, or regional self-government to participate in the work for general good without compensation. We also further defined some of the public authorities and jobs of the family centres that have so far been responsible for the activities of the nanny since they become founding units of the social care centre. We needed to further define their public authority. We have also removed from the law a provision that prescribed the criminal liability of a natural person who as a beneficiary of the right in the social care system to untrue data, and based on untrue data, achieves the right or compensation. Namely, the content of this offence coincides with the content of certain criminal offences prescribed by criminal law by removing it. Here, all the areas that I have now spoken about and which I have laid down the proposed law are therefore regulated for the first time, some are approached by existing and perhaps in a clearer way but this law respects the needs of users such needs and opportunities of the community and, of course, the social context. So I urge you to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62462	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to be going after the representatives' clubs. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62463	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As far as these two laws of political manipulation are concerned, I'll tell you an anecdote. It is said that Reagan began his campaign as president in which he won with the story of a black woman driving in a pink Cadillac who comes for social aid in a pink Cadillac and lives fantastically. And so began his election campaign. And he got sympathy in one little detail. I personally do not believe that there are many Croatian citizens who have made a fortune on social aid but I am one of the people who believes that there are irregularities and that we have an overpriced mechanism or an entire welfare system costs too much compared to how much money we have. I wouldn't talk about the details of the law that's in the second reading, but about some facts so that we all can figure out together how hard it really is to do business. After the latest survey, every third citizen of the Republic of Croatia is poor. If we continue this way all underage citizens, all citizens of older age, those who live on their pension, all unemployed, all those who will work under the Small or Temporary Jobs Act, all those who work for a certain time and can get fired when the boss likes it will be poor. And we're very close to it. All but 10% of Croatian citizens will need to receive some kind of social compensation. In such a system, justly sharing social benefits is very difficult. However, we should now talk about what has led to every third citizen of the Republic of Croatia needing some help or that every third citizen of the Republic of Croatia is poor. And he's poor when he can't pay his basic expenses on the scales, which are the directors, the apartment and the food. If that was the ideal of the social state we talked about in the '90s when we said we'd have our own country now, we'd be on our own and now you'd see how good we'd live. I certainly won't abuse it, but all those who went into battle, I won't mention those difficult moments in the Homeland War, quite certainly today, if many saw what this country had turned into and that every third citizen was at least poor, they'd be disappointed, at the very least. Of course, it is not the social states in which most citizens should receive social assistance. That's a twisted theory. We are one poor country, an unfair state, a state where every third citizen needs some form of help. By the '90s. We shouldn't have, it doesn't mean that '90s, someone's calling the time before '90s, but security before '90 calls. Never, never and never, ever will anyone distribute this little money to so many poor and that it is just and that it is according to some sacred unmistakable criteria. You must know that the poorer of us Croats are Greeks and Latvians, there are close to us somewhere, and something poorer than Croats, Greeks and Latvians are Romanians and Bulgarians. 23 European Union countries are ahead. The fact that the Netherlands is among the least poor, Finland, Sweden, again I speak countries that have the highest state ownership, we can understand Luxembourg, we can understand but there is also the Czech Republic, a country in transition, so we have had our chances and not only should everything be settled in the Homeland War. The number of persons employed in the total number of maintenance aid recipients is about 50%. It's a defeating fact. It is said in the reasoning of this law that a working person is not motivated to work activation, not the Croatian word activation, so apply someone else because there is no word activation in the Croatian dictionary, there is activity, there is everything, there is no activation, that is what I said to the minister, for finding a job. So it won't work, it won't work if it receives 500 kuna help. It means that in Sweden, Norway no one would work, there are social aids far, far greater. That's what I mean by "guilty logic," completely guilty. Who would work in Norway? Well, no one, we'd all go for that help. Another thing that did not sanction the non-acceptance of the offered work of those who used or used some kind of help. So there are quite certain, and this was especially evident at the time of the war and immediately after the war that they were coming not for social help but for those Caritas warehouses in Mercedes in the nerves, but those today will not be seen in front of the soup kitchens and will not be seen in the centers of social care. Here we're talking about a unique monetary centre and there's one word that's very much spoken in English, and that's all in one place. That's what I'd like to see. Remember the former prime minister, who as I like to say has a grateful view of the world today, was here in the Parliament saying that here it is now this moment and everything will be in one place, nothing more should be. You know what they need in Holland? One yellow card. With that yellow card, I can do anything. Here's where the minister who introduced the OIB sits, I don't know what's waiting for that OIB, why we need to watch out for anything, any paper... and how it's only for people who are in money trouble, when they're moving them from counter to counter, whatever they need. I guess even at the dentist's when the birth certificate says it, the concubine, we all need to practice, and we have a personal one. Personals don't have a birth certificate, no homework... no, but it needs to be taken out. That's what you were saying here all in one place. If you make that happen, I think you're worth the Nobel Prize, if you do, I don't know what it's worth, but something needs to be given to you. The OIB is very important and give it once with this OIB, give us one card, give us one identification document for all, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, where we will see everything, from where we go to school, which we have finished, which we do not have, how many taxes we have paid, whether we have a driver's license, where we are health insurance. It's all on one card in other countries. Now we have conjecture, the OIB is a guess for that. I don't know why it's not being implemented,...to make 260,000..., 260,000 people... or I don't know why. I guess somebody's gonna explain it to me someday. The Dutch one yellow card, and we all have these papers, we love scary papers and paperwork. Excess bureaucracy needs to be requalified. It has been said before that there are too few people in social centres and that they will not be able to do so. We have too much in the public services of people, requalify, redistribute, and it'll be much better. One of the greatest riddles is property censorship. When Minister Linic tried to introduce a real estate tax, then the experts rightly told him, but how will you introduce a real estate tax when they do not know how much it costs? My apartment in Vlasko and my neighbor's apartment doesn't cost the same thing, it's even double the difference. No one came to our apartments and said how much it cost you. So how are you going to determine the property censorship? An old woman who receives 1,000 kuna pensions... or who doesn't receive, but she has an apartment. They say sell the apartment, as you will sell, try to sell the apartment in the City of Zagreb or in Čakovec or my Sunday..., 50 houses are for sale for sale for 2 years, 3 years, 5 years, no one buys anything. And now if someone lives in a bigger house or has land, try to sell in Međimurje land, I don't know maybe Slavonia is being sold, but there wouldn't be 60-70% unprocessed surfaces to... for land. So if someone has land, if they have a bigger house than they belong to, they can't receive help. For what? So you should die with a big house and land. So let the state buy it at a real market price when the state claims it can be done. We can't compare ourselves in the west with people who, when they retire, sell their apartment, put money in their pocket and go to the French coast or live on the Spanish coast to the death, enjoy their own fine. First they've got big pensions and second thing's worth their real estate. Our properties aren't worth it. We had our take-off in 2007, the eighth experience and then the price of real estate fell. Therefore, this property censorship is likely to explain to me what property censorship means and how the government will handle it. We need to get back to reality on that. It's said to be guaranteed the right to a minimum fee for the longest two years. And then you say the user has the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, has no right for the next three months. After three months, he can handle it. I don't get it. What if nothing has changed, what will that man do for three months? And then I guess I figured, I guess she'll live on saving. What's that? Well, the 500 kuna he's received so far. He saved three months, so he'll take three months. I don't understand why that provision is. I guess they'll explain it to me. I didn't read it right or I don't know. Or three months adjusting to hunger like a donkey. He says he will not receive help from one who has opportunities, even if he has seasonally occasional and similar jobs, to achieve resources to meet the basic needs of life. Well, the basic cost of living can't even be paid by pensioners, so neither can those with minimum wage. You know what a union basket is. And now we say the one who has the chance. And who determines whether anyone has a chance or not? The only time they say at the social center, at the Social Services Center, you got a job to do, pick up there at work. It's the only chance, not the obvious one to say you have a chance to occasionally get a job where? At the grass-cutting edge of Todorovic or where? Well, they don't say where. So even though this is a second reading, I think there's a lot of things unsaid, and yet perhaps as a layman, I don't know enough about this system. Maybe it's logical. It's illogical. Maybe it's logical. One thing that really stabbed me in the eye, which is a public-private partnership in the social services network. It's as dangerous as letting a fox into a hen public-private partnership, letting someone get rich. For what? Social benefits. How many public-private partnerships have been investigated and how many public-private partnerships are there in Croatia? And they say PPP project contractors can be the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth or the local self-government unit. I hope it doesn't occur to the ministry or local self-government units to engage in such a thing. If the government can work out the criteria, well done. I don't know, if you're asking me if I know these criteria, I don't know them, so I'm saying it's very difficult, which is why I'm at the beginning, so I'm going to be restrained by this law. The only salvation is a larger gross social product. We all know that. We don't need to be very smart and start production. Then we'll be able to talk about whether or not we're a social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62464	We're moving on to replicas. The first is Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Vuksic. You talked about the fact that those who went into battle in the 1990s, 1990s and the first year until the 1990s did not dream in their sleep that in 2009, the tenth, thirteenths would be this state in which one third of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be poor and many more demanding them in some form than those said 81 real social care, so they have various rights to demand social care. So you said they were going to fight for some other Croatia, another Croatia. But here, you see, we are in the Constitution, so in this session of the Parliament, the non-agency of crime has been introduced, to say the literal crimes of privatisation. If we were to succeed and if we were willing, well-willed in this regard to act and all that has been acquired by criminal privatisation, recover into funds or funds of the state, I think the situation would be much better. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as a good will from this liberal government. There was only one ordinary flossule embedding in the Constitution such a definition that criminal privatisation is not outdated and that is all it is, so a simple dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62466	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62467	Dear counterpart Grubisic, I agree recently read one piece of information to estimate that from 2001 alone, 15.2 billion dollars were extracted from Croatia from the first to 2010. It's those transfers that went through the accounts. And where are those transfers that didn't, means that they went under the table, that were washed. So it's money laundered. It's not included in that conversion crime of the 1990s. We would be a rich country today, we would be a country without deficits and certainly talk about many other topics. I agree with you, you need to get your money back. But I don't think that's the point. You were talking about, in fact, you're referring to my exposure that no one dreamed of a state in which they would have 81 rights to social assistance. They dreamed of a country where they would work, make money, be able to start families, where they could buy apartments, take themselves to sea, have 15 days of rest and live normally, train their children. It's an impossible mission today. And that's why Croatia is in trouble, and that's why it's a depressing situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62468	A new replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, and one of the reasons for the introduction of the OIB, was among other things a fairer distribution of this little money for social care and social giving. The basic model of the functioning of this system is to informically connect the entire state administration and that there is a central register. However, I do not know if you were in the assembly when the Tax Administration Act was discussed, the central register was not practically mentioned in any word, by the way in the law. And that's the place if we don't establish all this talk falls into the water and we can talk about the law as much as we want. Frankly speaking as Minister of Finance, I have secured a series of entrances right in this social care system to the World Bank to solve this problem and during the first debate I spoke and speak again. One of the key provisions for a fairer distribution of social resources in social care and the family status of those receiving that social care. It is a key condition precisely because of the traditional way of living of Croats. We can't just rewrite the directives and ignore the way we live and so I say, that's why this OIB was introduced to get a blood count of both Croatian man and Croatian economy, and to simply bring down these false moral sizes that are sold like this, such as that, and to finally see who has who in Croatia. However, it is very interesting that when you look at all the research, the Croatian administration is more informatively equipped than many EU administrations, but when it is necessary to connect with each other and when there is a need for data in one place and when someone comes to seek social assistance, it is precisely known that according to the tax administration you are looking for data and you get it and only the system throws out whether someone has the right to do so or not. But why didn't someone do it? Why has it been three years since the practically OIB came into effect for you at the bank today looking for JMBG and not OIB and JMBG is not worth 11 years, it's a question for someone else. But I'm saying the system's in place, it just needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62470	In reply Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62471	Comrade Shuker, in your words, means we have tools, so we can work but we don't know or we won't. Now the question is why not? The basic question that should have been asked before, before the law we discussed earlier, it's family law and this law, everything was easier, let's start working, but this is the biggest problem. So we have every assumption that we're connected to everyone in the state system right now complaining about this incoherence, when we're talking about a series of laws that are very important to the public service, they say we don't have the data of the administration that's underneath us we have to write the demands and after 15 days answer us that they didn't understand, so then we wait 30 days until we answer what we thought for 15 days, so they answer us so we're going to have a copy from the office in the same building and we have the OIB system, so we have tools and we don't or they want to steal. I don't know why, but I guess that's what we're going to get our answers for, which is why we're unrelated, and just before we talked about how we all have to bond. Don't get so attached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62472	The last replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62473	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Vuksic, you started with a Cadillac and a social aid of 500 kuna if you did not cheat you mentioned a way to create a mantra that people who exercise this right regardless of legal or illegal to serve some malversions that is simply a way to avoid clean work, work, that is another way to get some income. This whole time, this government's been creating some kind of psychosis. A lot of people are trying in an illegal way to get some malfeasances to some revenue. I think it's actually all about turning away from the real problems, from the right topic, which is the state, the general state of the country, unemployment and everything else. What I have come to you with the replica is that you yourself have commented on this law that you do not want to enter too much into the core of the law is, for example, the position of the network of persons with disabilities in Dalmatia where they point to a specific problem of this law when they say that Article 65 recognises the right to parent status, care provider when a child with developmental disabilities or persons with disabilities stays less than 4 hours a day in preschool or any other institution. In the same law, Article 86 defines itself as a framework of half-day stay for 6 hours, and I think those people who deal with it, who have flat problems because they live them, those people who live some problems, they know far better all the problems of that law that apply to them. And I think that's one of the examples where the law did not listen to the ones that the law refers to, and that's a well-intentioned remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62474	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62475	Dear colleague Novak, I'm sure that no one like I said in the debate is the goal of kidnapping 500 kunas and living beautifully. You know what 500 kuna means, what can be done in Croatia for 500 kuna? The dignity of people has been seriously violated. It's very hard to ask for help, it's very hard to ask for help from people who used to work, who made money, who had apartments, who had houses, who had families. It's very difficult for people who need a child today, he says no, I can't, I don't have, I don't have where, there's no credit. We're in serious trouble, why was I talking? I won't talk about the technical details of the law because it's a little bit about what we're up against. The most important thing is that, and I don't think people in welfare centers are absolutely certain that it's most honest, working people, professional people who know their jobs. However, the problem is always those who need to run the system and those who need to watch over it, watch out for law enforcement and the work of the entire system are those who are responsible. And the most important problem is that 81 kinds of help, every third Croatian citizen who is threatened by poverty, is saying enough how much dignity we have lost over the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62476	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club, a respected representative of Mile Horvat will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62477	I thank you, representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Social Welfare, second reading, will probably no longer be able to change something more important than a few amendments that are likely to be rejected as it has been happening lately, but we do not mind commenting on certain solutions offered by this new legal solution and comparing what we have so far because this is a law that comes into force next year, and already the third law that we have passed over the past three years, or three amendments to that law we have so far in the past three years. This is in any case confusing not only for social assistance users but also for people themselves, for the very profession that deals and works in the welfare system. Many years ago, the state had to take care of the most powerless and old people, and today we have come into a situation where in this way we have to take care of the working-age population because the data says that somewhere around 50,000 people who receive various forms of social assistance are a working-age population. According to data from the ministry, 114 thousand social assistance users this moment, or in the middle of this year we had. Of these, 50% of them are workable and the Employment Office has an average of 5 years each. It's something that speaks of the social image of our society. So I completely agree with the social state theory is not necessarily a state of social welfare. That's what some countries have proven. In any case, the crisis is not in favour of reducing the number of social assistance users, but on the contrary, the number of unemployed, older and children with behavioural disorders is increasing in every crisis. We have an increased number of domestic violence, etc. It's all some sort of consequential link between the global crisis. Now I would like to say something about what my predecessor was talking about, and what I think is very important is that we discuss it, which is a new solution, or a new property censorship for social donations proposed by these amendments to the law. These new amendments shall take into account all available means of the individual, when determining the asset price for the user of social benefits. So there are own savings, shares, balances on accounts, real estate, property, which, of course, has not been the case so far. I wouldn't enter the property of a basic living space, or an object of up to 35 square feet per single man, and a car would refuse the censorship. That's how the census is defined by this new solution. Experience on the ground says something else. The whole thing so pretty well conjectures the system falling on the individual. The family from Sisak, it doesn't matter the name of this debate, which has no movable property, and owns an old unregistered APN engine, the one APN 4. Therefore, it does not exercise the right to social assistance because of this APN 4 engine because it is an assessment of the man from the Social Labour Centre. So that's it. A well done system falls into life then on some individuals who need to carry it out. I'd also say here an interesting case when it comes to censorship. Let's say season workers don't have the right to social assistance if they work for a few days in the season. And then we come into practice in the situation that seasonal workers will not be taken off social aid, but they are working in the season illegally, they will not accept that for those working days that the stamp that the IRS is looking for so they don't lose their right to social aid, and the one for whom they are working is forcing them into a financial offense and into a situation to be persecuted and punished as it happened in the seasonal work this fall when the Financial Police were calling and punishing people because they don't have a stamp. And those seasonal stamps don't accept because they're losing this social aid. Therefore, we come into collage of two interests. One is an interest in implementing social policy, and the other is to carry out some financial records or records of the Tax Administration. The help in the house is an institute that is very interesting. He has been on the basis of a programme of intergenerational solidarity so far, according to a public call issued by the ministry, contracted with local self-government units. That's how it worked. Each selected unit of local self-government on the table could employ a number of employees. About 7 employees, of which 1 head, assistant workers and geronto housewives. The state budget would raise salaries for them, and the local self-government unit would participate in its costs at 10% of its funds. What you can't see here is that these units of local self-government, in addition to that of the necessary part, also provided a transport for carrying out assistance in the house, which is very important for the areas of special state care for a character where you have tens of kilometers of houses from home where this seems a banal problem, however, it's the essence of executing help in the house. When they are traffic-insulated, they need to be covered by these nursing homes to be visited, they don't have shops, they don't have hospitals, they don't have mail, and the only way to communicate with the world is to help them in the house and that vehicle that local self-government provides them with. There are 16 employees and 222 users in the Municipality of Dvor for house assistance. For example, in Jagodnjak Municipality 10 employees served 150 users. In 2012, they provided 26 thousand services or 12 thousand 654 times visited users. These are large numbers, it's an indicator of the essence of this institute's help in the house. These people who worked through the local self - government units in the house, they helped people in the field in addition to these regular assignments with ordinary jobs. They did their chores, they did their shopping, they split and cut wood, they brought medicine, food, etc. and it is often said that the living room and the help in the house was the only form of concern for third-party people, and the geronto housewives were the only connection of these people to the rest of the world. Otherwise, in the financial section, it was the cheapest service since it was spent on the state budget of about 3 thousand kuna per year, while for institutional services in homes it is paid monthly. So we see how stronger it was, or more profitable, for the state. By the end of last year, there were 91 units of local self-government that had signed contracts, covering some 15.5 thousand users and employed 1045 employees. They'd all be unemployed in those local self-governments if it weren't for this institute's help in the house. The figures therefore speak of the importance of helping in the home for units of local self-government. We have here several examples of memos from the municipalities themselves that are just pointing to the need for this institute to remain in office the way it was. Under the new law, these programmes will be redefined according to this current text, they continue to help with the services in the house, but now social care centres will issue solutions for which users have the right to individual services. So we will increase administration for existing users, reduce the scope of services provided to users, and many users will lose their right because they often use some more money social benefits. In addition, here we need to say social care centres with articles 127 to 129 in this legal text of the day very large powers, very large jobs and very large tasks and we can ask whether these centres are, in addition to the best will and expertise of the human team to do all the work we have given them with this legal test and the marriage law that we discussed today. So this thing was supposed to be taken care of here. The problems that arise in the field under this new solution will be the following, so it is necessary to visit all help users on the ground. According to the experience of the centre today, we have an unfavourable number of employees of the centre and of the vehicle to do the job, leading to slowness in solving the case. I said, so it would be a technical problem that seems banal, but it would make it impossible for this law to be implemented in the way that it was defined in the idea. The other kind of solutions from this law under which we have a certain reserve, so by law, the user should come to the center and seek his right. Earlier, teams found users and reported to the center, teams collected data, provided services per user's homes according to their current state. So that's what teams of people used to do before. Every year, a tender for providing home assistance services is launched, so every year we have new service providers, new employees, new people with older users, which should certainly not be ignored that this fact causes the mistrust of older people because they always receive new and new people and new people in their homes every year according to this new legal solution. It's a new financial form of the so-called system. fiscal decentralisation as the activity of social care instead of the state budget will be financed by local administrations, counties and cities. For those poorer fiscal conditions, the funds will be donated by the State from a special fund to settle the balance. These are housing costs, heating costs, material costs where local self-government units are the founders of homes burdening the local self-government unit. The question arises whether the state has made a projection of the possible costs for next year, which should be borne by local self-government units in that case if this balancing fund does not pay this part of the costs that the state should cover instead of local self-government units. The law says that it will no longer be possible for those working in the welfare system to have any private home because it is a classic example of conflict of interest. Anyway, that's a good definition. We also think that persons working in the social care system should not be particularly specific functions that decision-making functions in this system should not be politically involved because experience suggests that fostering as a social care category was often the subject of providing votes in local elections, so it was a way of affecting voters' will. The status of family centres is abolished as independent institutions, becoming part of all basic jobs of the social care centre. In the Republic of Croatia we currently have 19 family centres, the total number of employees in them is 114 and 80 of them are professionals. This provision of the law does not eliminate the truth directly from the affairs of family centers but it is the fact that because of the overload with the objects of these centers, it is likely that this will be the turn. And in that sense, we have a certain written fear of people who are just showing dangers that these systems might make them become and become an extra workforce with this new legal solution. Especially these 80 professional workers. And finally, a public private partnership that the colleague had previously talked about, and we express here a certain reserve, a certain skepticism. From experience in some other forms of public-private partnership participation as some solution to the joint investment, we believe that in this institution or in social care, a public private partnership should not be a way of participating private capital. All in all, the legal solution will be to us the day after tomorrow at a vote out of respect for the cases to which this legal text applies we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62478	Thank you. We're listening to the replicas now. First honorary colleague of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62479	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague, you said at the beginning that there were three amendments to the Social Care Act, that they were and were necessary. I will not now mention what we all know from the welfare center, how they were in that one proposal, not the proposal, the law organized etc.. And that's why this law that we now have on the benches is the new law that we were talking about at the very beginning that a new law should be passed that would just be no more changes to the law. That's the first one. Secondly, you said exactly that the crisis is increasing naturally and the number of users. I'd just say here that it's another assignment for us. Both the competent ministry and local and regional administrations and self-governments so that we can make all those workable users who will exercise the right to social assistance in some way work through public works and through various forms so that they can benefit themselves and society. You also said that in a crisis it might be a mistake, an apology if it's a mistake, but I have to replicate that the number of children with behavioral disorders is increasing, and I think it was a mistake because it has nothing to do with the crisis really. And I would really refer to help in the house. And I don't know if you know how help was spent in the house before. And it was spent so that certain amounts were and that these amounts were given to the mayor, the mayor, and I don't know who. I just know that at the time I wanted to get in touch with someone so I could find out how it was really going. Believe me, I didn't. The number of users at the time, from where, I mean, I'm glad that you have the number of users, I never had them, the records didn't exist, I'm saying what I tried to investigate and I didn't, now it's going to go through the welfare center, through the welfare center it's always had to go. Whether it's the center or not, he has to have it. Because these are old and powerless persons is exclusively a competent center under the social care law. And it's the only right way to do that in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62480	Thank you. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62481	Thank you, colleague. You've been doing a lot of replicating for me, so I won't, so I'm gonna set a few things aside. So this is the third version, that is, the third amendment to the law. What does that mean by logic? That by logic means that the first two times we didn't search thoroughly, we didn't bring the most optimal solution. Because in three years of this kind of a serious subject three times dealing with three changed texts is, so we didn't do something right at first. And I just said that you often get confused by the very users and the people who are professionally involved in carrying it out. The second thing, help in the house, so I was just talking about the experiences that people in the field have told us about. So, apparently, a dozen memos by the mayors of the municipalities are speaking in favor of helping the house was a big deal, a large social category of people who lived in small areas. The help in the house is not the same in Krnjak, it is not the same in Zagreb, it is not the same in Rijeka. That institute doesn't have the same meaning in those environments. I was talking about the importance in the environments with the social lower population categories, so areas of special state concern, Rural, right, just like that. [[Intruder: Rural.]] So that's it and for this number, for the data that you're interested in, you say, we have this kind of register of that data as we get them I can't tell you right now but you can use that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62482	New replica, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Horvat I actually agree with you in the part where you were talking about the home assistance program how it's worked so far, that the good experiences are from local self-government units. If more than 15,000 users were included in the programme, a thousand people were employed in the programme that would probably be at the employment bureau. And that's really how it is. It is necessary to say this myself, and last time I said that the help in the house is not a classic social problem, and it is not designed as a purely social programme, but as a programme of intergenerational solidarity. And the users of the help program in the house, the living room and the help in the house were not social cases but were mostly users who had their own incomes, who could live financially and settle their expenses but needed community assistance to improve the quality of their lives. And what was the goal as long as it was possible to postpone these people from moving to their homes, rather than staying in their homes and being helped by the community through this program in those day-to-day jobs that they unfortunately couldn't do. It was the purpose of the program of help in the house and living room and help in the house. And it is not good that through this law this programme essentially comes down to the social programme and that the users of this programme will be solely those who are subject to social welfare standards in the future. It's not good and it's a fundamental mistake in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62484	Next line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you have well noticed that from Articles 127 to 129, 36 of the function of the welfare center has been numbered. In Article 127, this is based on the public authority of the post, the article, therefore on the continued activities of the nanny, has five counts, then on other professional activities and at the end of the advisory and preventive work. Indeed, both powers and a large number of roles are therefore the function of the social care centre. But what offered me especially on your line, which is to throw politics out of the welfare center, so simply as we did the depolitisation as we spoke to the police, both here and here. Namely, if you go to Okucane, you certainly know the situation in the Okucani, I know because it's my county, then you will see that everything you receive through the Social Care Centre in Okucani they believe it was given to them by the current political authority in the town of Okucani, and so those who do so are likely to present themselves. And then when you go to the election, then you have the right picture and the state of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62486	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62487	I thank my colleague Grubisic. So when I talked about the great tasks in these articles, these four articles of the Social Care Center, then I first referred to what they told me from the center. So in the center itself, people say that they're under-capacitated professionally for such an enormous amount of work that these laws and some other laws put into place. So that's the thing to think about, how to help these social care centres to get the personnel to agree in the best way that they can carry out these legal obligations that we've given them here. And I'm glad that you cited the case of the Housewives too, I can list some other cases, examples of how this issue at certain times in the local election campaigns, I'm talking especially about local elections, benefits for political purposes, the fact of fostering, etc. So I'm glad I don't have the only opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62488	Last line, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62489	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I have to admit that most of my replica was told by my colleague Ivić in front of me, but good news now. It's not the only part that made me answer. You've talked a lot about helping out in the house and mentioned the area like this and made a comparison of these rural areas with those areas of type Zagreb, Rijeka and the like. Unfortunately, I am also on the board, not only myself but also a colleague sitting next to me, the impression that there are, that there are differences between the urban Croatia and those of other rural Croatia. It's not just Lika, it's a complete area of Banovina, but it's a complete Posavina both upriver and downriver from Sisak. We also mentioned the cost projection, i.e. the cost provided for units of local self-government, which will probably have to take over the state. But the fact is maybe it's not clear enough that it's the ones that are themselves that are problematic anyway, we already have units where the average age of the population is extremely high, the rural population, the income is gone, I mean where the situation itself is very bad. You mentioned a public private partnership, I think before you, my colleague Vuksic mentioned the same thing. No private will get into any business unless there's a financial interest and now that we're legally allowing someone to pull out where the socialist is, I think it's a really, really disastrous solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62490	Thank you very much. You must contact your colleague Horvat while this one is replicating you. We're continuing the club debate. Excuse me, Deputy Minister Maya Sporish called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62491	Thank you very much. So here a few things have been said that actually in the law are very clearly written and quite clearly defined, and then obviously it came maybe, in fact, I believe that it happened that maybe it wasn't read carefully or that maybe it missed. The whole time there's been a debate here as if a service to help in the house, or a geronto housewife, whatever we call it, is abolishing. No, not at all. The service stays, except money will no longer be passed on to local self-government units and so it should be and finally over that money and need control. I'm not going to convince here all those situations that we at the ministry see, and where citizens actually show up that they're on the list of units of local self-government, and that the geronto housewife never visited them, or that they're on that list of people who can pay for that service without any problem themselves, but that she's still paying for the state. In fact, their descendants appear and feel that such a thing does not make sense because they can pay for it to their parents. Therefore, I believe that this money needs control, and I think it is most acceptable that money is paid directly to service providers and that they finally have certain control over these centres. All those who can pay for the service could pay for it themselves by now, will be able to pay for it as well as from now on. I may even specify an article where this is stated and applies to all social services, Article 74(6) and paragraph 7. So that those recipients of the service can fully bear the cost of using social services. Next thing I know, it's a property censorship issue. It was said here at the very beginning of this debate that it was difficult to assess the property censorship and that it was not known at all because the property tax was not introduced as to how it would be evaluated, so we didn't even go to the first real estate in any way to assess it. So the property where the user lives with his household members is not estimated and it does not enter the property censorship at all. We're talking about another property, the one that's being put into service, the other property that can be put into operation. We're talking about the first car, because the car is also an exceptional cost. We only work with those households where a person with disabilities or a family lives so dislocated from the means of public transportation that they need a car. We're talking about valuable movements to others. Yeah, that's what an asset census needs to get into. But an estimate of the first property in which the user lives with members of his household doesn't. And now one topic that we especially care about in the Ministry of Social Policy, which is the subject of information. Before, so before we came to the ministry, we had information that certain funds, 40 million kuna, were invested precisely by the World Bank in informing the welfare system. That information is entirely accurate as regards the amount. But it's completely incorrect that this information has come to life. They have been invested in informing the welfare system. Within 15 days of our entry into the ministry, we kept trying to find the app and anything that associated with the social care app, it didn't exist. The money was paid to certain companies with information, certain companies received money, the application did not live. And I'm free to say that these two years, less than two years, because we're done with the app, so there's almost a year that we spent our first year setting up the Soc care app. As far as I'm concerned, I can't claim a central register and I can't comment. It's a matter of the IRS. But as far as the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth are concerned, we are networking and we can enter through our soc care, or we can exchange information with other systems. If perhaps there is no central database and central unit through which we can exchange information, we all need what we need under the Cooperation and Exchange Agreement with other systems can exchange and we can get the information and data we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62492	Thank you. Now we have five replicas on this. First Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62493	Thank you very much. I had to react to this whole property censorship thing and the first car. That was just the word on the board. And now you are, I hope I wrote it right. Any distance from public transport. Public transport can be like one bus a day. It's, say, a specific case of the Court. There's literally one bus a day leaving the Court. Do you consider that a public transport? And what does relative distance from public transport mean? Since I am not talking about Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, Varazdin, any other city. We're talking about Posavina upriver from Sisak, downriver from Sisak, all over Banovina, Popolje. Find me what you think there, try to explain to me what you consider public transport there. I think this is a little weird for me. You said it at first, or it wasn't read properly, or it was misunderstood. I absolutely accept that, although there are some things I really can't understand. Well, for example, Article 54 of the Law, the right to a personal disability cannot be recognised and now the item to list a child for up to a year of life. Not to me, I really admit that I'm not an expert on this, I'm a layman. But now I'm asking myself what the difference between a 10-month-old and a half-year-old is. And since you've found out, maybe there's been a misreading I appeal to you that you're reading the proposal of a network of people with disabilities in Dalmatia because to me it sounds extremely logical, right, fair with best intentions. And I hope that you will also accept the amendment that we have made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62494	This replica corresponds to Deputy Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62495	A child for up to a year is a matter of profession. The child can't be artificial for up to a year and that's the point of view of the profession, because the child is still in the stage of development that the attitude of the profession is not to be a warlock. As for the traffic connection. For example, people living in the vicinity of the Castle or I don't know about Sisak, regardless, will be evaluated by social workers from these centres for social care, which is relative distance, not social workers from Zagreb, not social workers from another city. Those social workers from the welfare center who are responsible for this area will assess whether there is one bus or two or three buses, whether it is 500 m or 3 km by the first bus. They are the ones who will direct out onto the ground when in the end line and tour these families assess whether this is indeed relative, which means relative distance from the means of transport. What we used to manage primarily is the distance from traffic means in a way that someone has to drive their kids to school by the first bus. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62496	A new replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62497	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, yes, well said colleague Novak in his replica, and I will also replicate that since I know the good situation and therefore there is one song that says the Court far away, and I am late, yes. That's exactly how this replica that counterpart Novak gave you, for example. from one stork to get to the first house where someone even lives except that house that's in Switzerland one can only get to the horse's car, I don't know what else it can do, the points are that someone can drive him to his car and then get to the Court and get to a bus on a line that only has one day towards Sisak. The second thing I wanted to say about home help. In fact, you've been here a lot of times, I would say, I'd say, I'd like to make a sharp statement about our home assistance replicas, but it's already been said here that home assistance isn't just a social category. It's helping people who don't have a lot of stuff and other people who might have enough money, but they can't, they're inaccessible, they're inaccessible to get involved in society at all. But they have money I mean enough let's say they live politely. So home help isn't just for social cases, it's for others. In fact, it is actually as it is already said here if there is home help and for such ones from their loneliness or so on will not go home, if someone comes to him will not go home, he will rather be in his house as he is but will not use the services of what we actually have in Croatia a large deficit of places in homes is deficiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62498	Thank you very much. New replica, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputys, with this amendment, that is, with this new law, you are essentially changing the meaning and essence of the existing "Help in the House" programme. And that's what I said when I replicated Mr. Horvat. The point was something different from what you're proposing now. Therefore, the assistance in the house was not developed within the Ministry of Health and Social Care, but within the framework of the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity as a measure of intergenerational solidarity. So she's not targeting those who are social cases. And they're right colleagues when they say there's going to be a reduction in the number of users because you're going to use these criteria to achieve social assistance so that someone has the right to help in the house. And there will certainly be fewer users on that side than there have been before. We'll see in a year, so far there were 15 grand and something, we'll see next year. Just as the size of the "Help in the House" program is decreasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62500	Next replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62501	It's very interesting when we talk about property censorship to run away from a clear definition of what property censorship is. Not from what someone in Croatia invented, but you have a complete World Bank project that defines what property censorship and family status is. And I'm telling you that if this law is clearly not defined by property censorship and family status it will never be fair. It is also not true that you can get all the data if you do not use the Central OIB Register. First of all, you cannot obtain data on the value of shares and you cannot obtain data on shares in companies. That's why the OIB was designed. Why someone or something informed me I won't get into it, but I know how the system is imagined and I know that without it the system can't function. And someone can come to power to invent this or that, but this is definitely a system that's established so that it can function to be just. And that's why the World Bank financed it. Nice to smile, but it's hard to understand ideas when someone was creating something and then someone came in and just grab it like this. Why didn't the social care centres connect in information? It's a story to yourself. The IRS has been linked to each other since '89. years of information. Why didn't the welfare centers do it? Why didn't some other state institutions do it? That should ask yourself another question about who was at the head of those institutions. But I'm just repeating to you without a unique information connection, without using the central register, without a clear definition of property censorship will be wandering again. And let's not think, there aren't a lot of those who have some fabulous property and use social aid. But it must be clearly defined which is the property censorship precisely because those who do not have the right do not use it. And so some things because they are set up, look at the ministry you have a World Bank project that clearly defines that for you, so without Croatian political colour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62502	Last line, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62503	Well, here's what I'm like, the esteemed deputy, as well as my colleague Shucker wanted to talk about property censorship. You said you didn't mean the first real estate. I wasn't thinking about the first real estate either, but let's say another estate that's an inheritance and that's somewhere I know on some banks. She's a different real estate and she's got 100 squares. You're giving it a free assessment, who? Well, you have some rules, I guess. There's got to be some rules. So this system is totally underdeveloped. You know, land that has its surface but you don't know what to do with that land. A lot of people can't get help for that. And now you say it's not that, but they'll do it at their own discretion, of their own free will. Everything in Croatia is of the free will and that the government is doing a bad job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62504	We're continuing to discuss clubs now. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with your associates. The SDP club will support the final proposal for a social care law. I think that we all aim to pursue justice, or to better cover or target those who need us. I also agree with colleagues who used to say that there are no sinless criteria and that someone will feel damaged or not meet all needs. However, I think that especially when rural areas are mentioned but I hope that through the implementation of this law, such solutions will be found whether or not through programmes with civil society, with local self-government, in contact with them, perhaps mobile teams. I therefore believe that such solutions will also be found for these rural areas. Of course it's easier in cities to exercise all these rights. So, the area of social care is very important, very sensitive, very large area. Social policy is the responsibility of the state, and every day as we have heard, we have more and more needed for social care. Modernisation usually occurs in times of crisis because in this way, in fact, the consequences of the crisis can be mitigated in one way. However, this has often been used in a wrong way. In fact, there was no structure or responsibility and often social peace was preserved in such a way. However, wherever there is a need to obtain a system in which the application will be simpler and faster than so far where assistance will be better directed towards those who really need and better control will avoid duplication of rights and assistance. Therefore, we must all agree that so far the law has not been laid down, so there have been possible abuses, someone today said well-informed for manipulation. Unfortunately, there was not enough control, and these people, many of them passed the law, so illegally certain rights were being exercised, which means they were taking the money that was intended for some others. This law introduces structures, new changes in cash compensation, social services and status changes. More order is introduced into justice in the welfare system. Talks with social workers show that they have a major problem with the administration. There are a large number of cash donations and these are very demanding administrative jobs. A lot of time is spent on writing, and very little time remains for direct work with users why actually social workers have defined themselves. A little time for prevention, for advisory monitoring, for drawing up plans, for individual planning, etc., etc. Very often the centers were trapped in the administration network, thus reducing field work. Now we're wondering what the result is? That means questionable service quality. So I'm back here wondering if it's worth more to have a client with whom a social worker works get out of trouble or give him 100 kuna. But out of the playful problems, from the great administration I repeat, there was no user, or man was not seen. When we talk about monetary fees, the unifications of the same ones will surely reduce such administration. These are compensations, 4 social security fees that will now be merged into one and that is guaranteed minimum compensation for why she is. So, some kind of minimum, minimum means that the state guarantees anyone who doesn't have the means to live. This proposal also defines the income asset censorship as an obstacle to the achievement of the guaranteed minimum fee. The amount will be 2900 kuna, the minimum gross salary of industrial workers. The right to a guaranteed minimum fee of 2900 kuna will mean that all those whose income is not enough to live and who do not have the property to sell or rent or to put into service. We've had examples that some families have exercised greater rights, by cumulating than those, they'd have more income than the ones that actually work. This is how it is now corrected, and that is how it is a matter of righteousness. The goal is to make the system transparent, to allow overlapping fees not because some have no but to get those who need to get it. So this is how he tries to rationally spend state money. It is also important to mention work activation for unemployed social assistance users as we have heard today. It was a problem for many years that simply a man was spinning in the system, a man who had not worked for him was thus pasting that he was not working but basically supported by the system, that this, the system, it enabled him to do this work inactivity. Now, for employees, work is being stimulated in this way in terms of employment. We know that, and we have all the examples that most citizens were afraid to take seasonal jobs and change is being made here. It is precisely this transitional period for compensation when the first month is paid 100% of the fees, it is further reduced to 4 months, 50, 25%, 4 months of compensation is extinguished, so we give three more months as some kind of security to these people to strengthen them, strengthen them to actually go into the labour market and somehow get away from the social security system that gave them that kind of security. I repeat it's a system, the system allowed it. Social support should be only for a certain short time, a time period, and not for one part that, and not that one part of the people who actually had long, long-term incomes in the social community were not at all interested in anything else. It is also stressed by Employment Services that they have a more active role to play, if a citizen refuses education, if he refuses the offered job, the fee is extinguished. That's fair. Therefore, good contact is also established between the Social Care Centre and the Employment Service. Information is mentioned. There have been various comments on this, however, that, of course, a unique information connection is needed. And this information that has been made so far in the ministry, it is a major improvement because it will in fact automate the submission of payment requests and will not need that mountain of paper that citizens have had to bring, visit various different institutions, etc. However, here I would stress another proposal for units of local self-government, which is that it may be necessary to define more clearly the rights of those who make public needs measures for their citizens in the social sector because there is actually a situation where people come into the social care centre and ask what rights there are for them at all. When recognising the right to cash compensation to households or singles who do not make enough income to meet the basic needs of life, research has indeed shown that the most vulnerable are singles and single parents and precisely this proposal protects those categories of our fellow citizens. Because we are aware that if there is a family, someone who is at risk has a family that is certain to expect and get help from others. The ones who don't, they don't have anyone. It is also introduced, this is commendable, non-suspensive effect of the appeal. A change in recognition and termination of the right to guarantee a minimum fee is also important. For example, giving up the right to money, complaining, but not being exercised to power. And now that he loses, when the appeal comes to power, then we have to go back, then the executions go, then there's a problem that doesn't need to be introduced, by introducing this institute. Now appeal means he won't be able to suspend the solution, he's going to stop right now. This also reduces administration, thus reducing performance, thus reducing unnecessary time and anxiety, etc. We also commend the Institute for the notes of claims that can ultimately act positively on the care of children toward parents, which is unfortunately very often forgotten. One more thing about a guaranteed minimum fee, or poverty line, that makes the state not allow people to fall. The terms and conditions for the authorisation of the determination on the basis of income and assets cumulatively cannot be exercised by a user holding an asset greater than the prescribed asset price. However, the guaranteed minimum fee belongs to any person who does not have sufficient income for life. Unique fees, I repeat, means reduced, or a unique administrative procedure. When we talk about social services in terms of improving the social services system, it is very important and proposed to reorganise social care centres. We all know, especially social workers, that it is very difficult to do more jobs at the same time and that efficiency is greater if it comes to specializations, and if we focus on a particular area and that our performance is certainly greater then. Therefore, competence is essential, further education of social workers, i.e. all workers in social care centres, and it is important to focus on certain jobs in this social care system. Network service providers will actually form prices of these minimum quality standards. You'll know what the price of some kind of service is. Hence, the one who can pay will be able to help in that way. Because I, if I don't have anyone to help my parents, I can know the price, I can know the favor and so I can pay. And the one who can't, he'll get paid by the state. Therefore, a service is paid and it is very important for those who need to pay the service, not for the user to pay the money. For the purpose of deinstitutionalisation of homes, we should now play a role in just providing outside institutional services. And there are half-day stays, all-day stays, patronage services, help and him in the house, etc. It is therefore proposed that in the process of transforming homes, individual homes become centres for providing services in the community. In the status changes, I would still mention family centres, i.e. the transformation of family centres that are attached to social care centres, not physically, but are attached in terms of status changes as new units, these are centres for family mediation, or family counselling centres. So far, if there was mediation, then it went to the welfare center, then social care centres would be sent to the family centres where it was done. Now the role of family centers is binding, and that is exactly the difference. And that's why we say, only now will there be real prevention. It used to be informal, and now it's formal. It's a real role. It's only now that it gets family centres to play a real part in prevention. The obligation of a working or part-time working male or a household member to respond to the call of units of local or regional self-government shall also be introduced. It's a novelty that was between the first and second readings. In this way, the possibility of social integration and the involvement of users of guaranteed minimum fees in works organised by the local self-government unit is left. Here, this means that local self-government units can form certain jobs they need to meet the needs of their community. Finally, the reasons why this law was adopted were clear, that this was to be resolved, to resolve the confusion of parallel systems, that the current law was not stimulating for the employment of workers but vice versa, given the level of income that the user could achieve under certain circumstances. Therefore, in conclusion we can say that the welfare system is now this way approached the user, that it has directed assistance to those who need it most, therefore I hope it will be better controlled and thus increase the quality of the service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62506	Thank you. It's the National Minority Club and Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62507	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected deputy minister of... esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, on behalf of the Club of National Minorities and on my personal behalf, I would like to congratulate Human Rights Day. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, we support the amendments to the Social Care Act. The Social Care Act is the basis of the i.e. The main legislative framework governing most of the social benefits in the Republic of Croatia. Given the problems facing the existing social care system, I think we will all agree on the necessity of its reform. As a representative of 12 national minorities, I am aware of the importance of this law for both minority communities and the majority population. With frequent field work, I had the opportunity to personally convince myself of the problems that end-users have with social incomes and competent institutions, from local welfare centres to the ministry. Although their number is smaller today, there are beneficiaries of fees that are not really entitled to achieve them. Such abuse of the system is the most expensive for disadvantaged citizens who, after a few years, are unable to exercise the right to deserved social income. No, and the damage that such illegal users make to the state budget is also small. I really hope that new legal solutions will bring more order and stricter control in the compensation system. on the other hand, there are a number of potential users who are unable to exercise the right to social benefits which, due to budgetary constraints, is due to bureaucratic obstacles and, of course, to those recipients who are illegally exploiting the existing system. In view of these shortcomings, I hope that the changes introduced in this law will correct the existing damage that destabilises the entire social giving system in the Republic of Croatia. I sincerely hope that the establishment of a guaranteed minimum fee will in some way improve the status of the poorest who are most affected by the bad economic situation. For many years, I have been advocating the introduction of work activities for those social assistance users who are able to work. I really hope that this part of the law will not remain at a declarative level and without successful implementation. This type of activation of labour-efficient social benefits recipients works successfully in a number of EU countries, not only partially repays the solidarity of taxpayers but also helps recipients to feel socially useful rather than on the burden of society. Such a system has a successful impact on all actors of the social care system. In the beginning, the establishment of a working activation system could require increased financial and organisational burdens. I'm sure the result of the implementation of such measures wouldn't be missed. A similar system of working activation of the unemployed exists through the programme of public works in the implementation of the Croatian Employment Institute. Such a base could also be used for the new system of labour activation of recipients of social benefits, given that the focus is on working for the common good. I particularly mind the fact that I have appealed to several times, which refers to the current programme of work activation through the public works programme. For example, among some members of the Roma national minority, whose entire families lived on welfare, we had individuals who wanted to work, and they joined the public work programme. Sadly, after six months of work, in some cases the entire family lost their right to social assistance. If the family has crossed a certain income line in such cases, exceptions should be made so that the rest of the family can continue to receive the compensation granted. In this way, the state stimulates unhappiness and creates additional social and security problems. I sincerely hope that the new legal solutions will be more flexible on this issue because I believe that non-stimulating labour activation is a major flaw in the existing social care system. I would take this opportunity to further mention the importance of the welfare system for members of the Roma national minority, although this law is extremely important for all Croatian citizens. More than 90% of the members of the Roma national minority are unemployed and therefore depending on the various social care benefits. I would also like to remind that Roma in the Republic of Croatia have two strategic documents, these are the Action Plan, and the Strategic Plan for Roma inclusion. Roma are also under special attention from the EU, with a view to making up a large ethnic group in the EU with more than 8 million members of the Roma national minority. I really hope that these new legal solutions will take into account the documents mentioned and that they will hear about the problems of both these and other minority communities in Croatia. Despite how I have announced on behalf of the Club of National Minorities, I support this law because I believe that the welfare system needs to be thoroughly reorganised. I hope that the proposed solutions will revive in practice and that we can expect a fairer and better welfare system that will at least improve the standard of living of all Croatian citizens, including members of the national minority, at these times of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62508	Thank you. And I invite my colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, to present the position of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62509	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues. So the same Parliament, on a proposal from the same government, that is, the same ministry in two years' time, proposes a second, new law with the same topics and problems. In June 2011, the previous Government adopted the Social Care Act, which represented a systematic reform and was the result of the work of the project to develop the social care system, which was attended by prominent European experts and financed by the World Development Bank. Then coming to this government almost everything had to change. A new solution that should have been the most qualitative has been made. Today we are again offered a new law with the same explanations. I wonder if at this rate in a year we'll have a new law and old social problems again. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the introduction of a fairer social care system and the introduction of order. The current system of social benefits, which is 81 rights, assistance, benefits with different basics and different criteria, is also proposed for users but also for those services that approve the above. Services are still in the habitation and learning phase and new rules are already being adopted. We support simplification and information, support and motivate recipients of help to refrain from finding employment. We also condemn all those fakes and so far they've been discovered by the seven thousand who have damaged the state by presenting themselves as social cases. And we support the ministry in the measures to which these funds will be returned. However, we must repeat what we warned in the first reading because nothing has changed on these issues. In this final proposal of the law, only certain amendments to the order of individual articles have been made, the obligation of a working or part-time working and capable male or a member of the household to respond to the call of their city and the municipalities for participation in works for general good without compensation has been introduced. This enabled the provision of social services by craftsmen. It is also interesting to finally read the report on the consultation carried out with the interested public to which 39 objections and proposals have arrived. You have not accepted most of these suggestions, and even what I find more incorrect, you have not explained why you rejected them. Namely, the Association of the Family of Children with Developmental Disabilities and Persons with Disabilities of Shadows has provided you with 7 remarks. There are a number of comments and counsels for children, so to speak. This bill closes family centres that are recognised in local communities as institutions that affirm family and social values, encouraging and responsible parenting, provide support for the growth of children and young people. By this law, by making the pen move, you are erasing an institution of social care called the family center, returning it back to the welfare center. This explains that this law does not eliminate jobs, projects, other activities of family centres, nor calls into question the employment relationship of employees, but only becomes the establishment units of the centres by continuing to carry out their activities so far. In my opinion, the question is even bigger then, which is why it's done. In order to change the seals, memorandas, business cards, the front door panels, so that new systemizations are to be done, new solutions are to be dropped, and now social workers have to deal with themselves instead of spending time and money on the most needed. And parents need the help of the state to prevent and separate areas of social protection. The establishment of family centres as an independent legal person was followed in 2006 by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in support of positive parenting. These changes, you know very well that they are contrary to the government programme which you have taken over and implemented the legal gains of the European Union for 2013 where the continuation of the work of family centres is foreseen. These provisions are contrary to the strategic plan brought by the gentlemen of your ministry for the period 2013-2015 and 2014-2016 and provides for the support and monitoring of the work of family centres, the implementation of adaptation activities and adequate equipment of family centres, the employment of new professional staff and the establishment of branches. This also ignores European policy in support of parenting and empowering families, which is inadmissible for the Republic of Croatia as a member of the European Union, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. We all have to work on every success and family work. And our Constitution is talking about protecting the family. Have you considered the advantages and disadvantages of this reform or will you now abolish them with this law and in a year conclude that family centres are important and urgent and that we will again bring the new Social Care Act. This law offers better protection for singles but it is unacceptable for you to seek to save funds in the state budget on families with more children. Appropriations for a child only 40% of the base of compensation paid by a single man is inadmissible. This demeans the child and the child’s needs, related to the development age, education, extracurricular activities. You are also warned of discriminatory articles about people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and their families. You have not accepted any of the proposals, although both the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities guarantees them these fundamental human rights. This law, like no other, had to be governed by the principle of social sensitivity and justice. In particular, persons with multiple damages that satisfy the conditions of Article 63 require full-time 24-hour surveillance, care and care, however, Article 65 whose children go to kindergarten or attend a school for children with special needs for more than 4 hours a day shall be deprived of the right to the status of carers. In such families, one of the parents, most often the mother, was forced to stop working after the age of 8 of her life. That's how the family runs out of one pay. If a parent succeeds in exercising his right to work for 4 hours, it is doubtful how the job can be done and how it can be maintained. We know that the school year lasts for about 180 days, working days in the economy is about 250 and who has 70 days of vacation and how many employers will tolerate it. It is absurd to have a child with special needs at school for 4 hours, for example. For 15 minutes, he considers staying enough that one of his parents can't achieve the status of a nurse. In cases of seizures, various viral diseases, even common colds, the parent is obliged to take care of the child. Taking into account the immune system of such children who are significantly weaker than healthy, even more time should be devoted to their child and within the hours that the child should spend in an institution. This child needs minimum control from 6 to 8 specialists, he needs different helpers. All of this requires extra parental effort and extra time. In prescribing such a provision, it is argued that it came from the fact that a parent has the ability to work part - time. Do you know how often parents can work for such children? Today, it is hard to find a job and who is ready for 24 hours to be at the service of his employer, and I would like to hear how many jobs it is in the Republic of Croatia open for 4 hours working hours with employers who will be happy to hire a person who, on the first informative conversation, meets his employer that he has a child with developmental difficulties and that he will have to be somewhat less often, because of his needs that are neither small nor rare. Elimination of nursing status would be acceptable for those parents whose children have daily care for more than 8 hours of normal working hours. The parents of a child with developmental difficulties due to partial or total absences just support the system are forced to use the right to this status. Furthermore, the right to parent status should not stop immediately after the death of a child with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities, but for a minimum of 6 months to provide the parent with time for rehabilitation. Furthermore, even a disabled person is forbidden by persons who have two apartments, and the Constitution guarantees special and increased care for the protection of persons with disabilities for the purpose of supporting the maintenance of persons in order to meet the basic needs of living and social life, and this law does not allow all those with the same degree of disability to benefit from the same assistance. The aid will also be denied to those who own their property and land, car or vessel in the apartment or house they live in. The nursing homes in rural areas will thus run out of minimum fees because they have land, and they can't process it and they don't have customers to sell it, and even if they sold it less than 3 years ago, gave up or donated some part of their property, they will remain deprived of assistance. And what's going to happen to us? Looks like we're gonna get the old people to get a divorce, too. Grandma and dida can't take any help because they have a few more fields next to their house that I can't process. If they're single, they'll get a 100% fee, otherwise only 60 if they're married, even if they only have one house or apartment. This law will make social injustice the most needed, and children with developmental difficulties, their parents, persons with disabilities, defenders, families with multiple children, those with a meter of squares other than the house or apartment they live in. This law will certainly bring new records, new figures, new statistics, but unfortunately it will not be able to change the real picture of life in our country. Now we have 357 410 unemployed, 6000 more than it was when we had this law in our first reading and that every day we are getting worse and worse, that's the fact that we can see it, and the minister herself said that while they removed 7,000 fakes from the system that we got 10,000 new users. It seems to me that this government has a gas change of laws and a tide of new social problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62510	We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62511	Thank you very much. So, Your Honor, I'm going to say first that I'm asking you nicely never to tell the children with special needs again. I mean, I mean, it really bothers me personally, and it's kids with developmental difficulties. We all have our own special needs, and I always respond to it, and I always respond with everyone. The media is saying that, and so on, it's too scary to hear. I'm sorry, but that's what I had to tell you. As for the reform of the social care system, the funds, etc., I'll tell you, I'm really surprised that you said this, we listened to the deputy ministry lady who just said about reforming the social care system, about the funds, about the information, about the information, where I also confirm that social care centres didn't have computers. I know that very well and I confirm it. And it must have been true that it took time. Whether it's a year or more or less, I don't know, but it took time to establish that system at all. It is now established, and the funds are not now received. That certainly wasn't the other means that you could use those funds. As far as I'm concerned, that's part one. The second part of the reform of the social care system at the time you're talking about, I really haven't seen it in anything, and I've been in the welfare system my whole life. That's what I have to say here responsibly. As far as the fakes are concerned, the fakes that were found didn't become now and here but are from before. Thus, what were the revisions and what were the complete procedures, so the false ones also happened. As far as family centers are concerned, I said the same thing at first. But I repeat once again that these are workers who are certainly not going to lose their jobs, who will also be strengthened, who, for that, will be in charge of the competent ministry, and I believe that. And what's most important will do their job and their profession. Why did that happen? I have to ask you. [[Intruder Stazic: Time of colleague.]] Can I say a sentence? Intergenerational solidarity, family assistance and care centers in the house, that's how it went. No one's inexplicable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62512	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62513	Dear colleagues, thank you for warning me, I will make sure that in my presentations I use the term of children with developmental difficulties. As for the information, I said, I'll do it again. We support information, support the discovery and detection of counterfeits that have damaged the state and the measures to which these funds will be recovered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62514	New replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you may have objections to the law, you may support something, you may judge something as you have said. That's allowed. However, I cannot agree that even in your previous discussion, you are now talking about amendments to the law that this is very bad. I must repeat that social policy is a responsibility, that it is the responsibility of all legislators and all those who make laws to see what is wrong with implementation. Therefore, it is very positive and responsibility is to amend and supplement the law. So I can't agree with you saying there's going to be a tide. Amendment to the law that if necessary, because it is not good to bring the law, to know that something bad is happening because implementation was not good, etc. and sit with broken hands and tell me we passed that law. And something else about family centers. I repeat now. It is only now that the right role of family centers is formalized, and it is the counseling, it is actually the preventive work of the one that should be. And last time we talked about nursing status, I say, I don't say parents should give more because your parents have their own pain and need both children and help them. However, I must tell you here that there are also once-in-a-lifetime abuses. You know when? When children grow up, then when they are not allowed to engage, when they are not allowed to go to the living communities if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62516	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62517	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think we should change the law and that's good. However, if we change it completely within two years, it means that it was not entirely good, or more than 30%. What happened, which came to the ministry and the government, or this government, this ministry is learning, and then for that, and next year, we're going to have a change of laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62518	Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Martinchev-Jurič, you spoke about the family center, about the role of the family centre in which the colleague said it was an advisory role, an advisory function although there are many others, so encouraging young people to marriage and maintenance says the quality of marriage. See how much this is compared to what we discussed in the morning, so the Family Law. So it's important to this particular family center. In which they are bound, therefore, this family center and precisely in the best intention of implementing the Family Law. And now I don't know what it's going to be like in practice, we'll see when this law is applied to whether the family center will perform its function in this particular role. And whether these teams are in place, and now they're supposed to be attached to the Social Services Centers to be told and strengthened. Given here on this left, they claim that we are approaching the average of the divorces and all that not to say the invalid EU average. That's where it's coming from. But we had four, every fourth, so there was every fifth marriage was separated. Now here we are approaching the numbers to be each third separated. And now here we are making a family reform, so with the family centers, we're making some kind of death salto, we're attaching, we're giving away, I don't know, instead of developing them to stop them, to prevent everything that's going on with the family today in society. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62520	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62521	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, what you think, we all think on this side of the assembly. But I'm convinced that's what those on the other hand think, because they wouldn't mind putting in their government programme, they wouldn't put in a strategic plan that the same ministry brought in for the period between 2013 and 15th and 2014. But obviously there was going to be a change. The directors of the family centers should be removed. That's the main goal, and then we can expect over a year again that they will return and get the status they have had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62522	The replica will now be presented by Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62523	Dear colleagues, you asked in your debate among other things what is the purpose of family centres given their different positioning now in the new proposal system. Family centers of 21 County have at 19. So, in two counties, we don't have family centers at all. If they were so important and so crucial, then we would probably start them in these other two counties, or these other two counties have no worse data in this sense of family status than these 19 that they have. So that's the first fact. In the family centers, I find 82 employees of which are 44 professional workers. That, on average, on these 19 counties 44 professional workers is 2 and a little more. So, if two people on the whole county can perform these... It's really not a solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now what do we get? We will get that for the same number of employees, so the directors did part-time professional work, so at the very least we get what they would say is a full-time equivalent of eight or nine people for professional jobs and this whole part of the technical staff 30-ac, so at the same cost we can simply hire professionals. I have to admit a little bit surprised by that attitude, you all the time especially when we've been making a budget you've been saying that you need to abolish institutions, agencies and so forth that are unnecessary in the system and focus resources on what is actually an activity, and that's exactly what this proposal is doing. And in the end, just one very short correction, you said that the school year is 180 days old. No, school year's 365 days. The school year is somewhat shorter but it's longer than the 180 days, it doesn't change the essence of your debate. However, the sheer accuracy of the term works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62524	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62525	Thank you very much. Well, when you were talking about family centers, only two counties still don't have them. Was it not more logical and normal to do everything possible to establish these family centers? Namely, the arrival of this government has no longer been strengthened by the family centers. As far as the agency is concerned, the fact is that we have a lot of them but today we also hear when we present the Family Law and this one that we're going to have another new Agency to grant money aid based on social welfare. As for 180, it's working days I said, and 270 working days in the economy. So I wasn't talking. I know it's 365 days old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62526	Replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Juricev, agree with your debate completely. You've noticed the problem that comes up in that whole story, and that's family. The family is, what we're looking for on this right hand side and it would be good if the Ministry of the Family existed. Why break down the family centers? That's a little vague, it says it fits, and on the other hand you said it will require it to create new jobs, and not only that, but change of directors, so it's probably that. But what you should be focused on and you are well through your discussion in Croatia is a family that is really threatened, who really needs all the support. Of course, that full support can be obtained through laws. The government is responsible for supporting the family if the government now considers the family to be the basis of life. Here is my colleague, Martinchev, of the 115 thousand users of this social aid 50% of them have been declared able to work. So today we have over 300,000 unemployed who can't get, so they've lost their jobs, every day a thousand of them remain. I'm asking you, and I'm asking you the promoters and the government, and I'm sure you're going to answer me, so how do you think this law is going to improve something when it doesn't improve the government's very working conditions? 600 are registered homeless. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Those 600,000 registered homeless people are people who have lost their roof over their heads. That used to be an unimaginable term.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62528	My colleague, you can't go on like this when I warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62529	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62530	You can finish one sentence but don't start five new sentences. Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62531	Thank you very much. Well, we colleagues can fool ourselves here and tell great stories but the fact is that every third Croat lives in poverty and social exclusion in Croatia. That we are at the very bottom of the European List of Risks of Poverty, that the most vulnerable group of young people, among whom the unemployment rate is more than 52% and that in October each day, more than 1,000 people were jobless.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62532	The last replica, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62533	Thank you very much. My colleague Yurichev, you said that in two years, this law is changing here for the second time and that it's bad. I have to admit, it's a fantastic standard. If that were the standard, that would be acceptable. Only comparisons are made by a Financial Business Act and a pre-demand settlement has changed four times in 11 months, 8 times more often the budget and budget rebalancing than this law. So this is something that's fantastic about others. But that's logical and the consequences are logical to the illogical approach. Because there are no clear goals, no clear strategy and no clear implementation. And that's why it happens to us. As far as family centers are concerned, I have to admit that we don't really understand each other here. Do they need it or don't they need it? But what amazes me is that in an explanation of why they are abolished, only one is given an explanation that even a little offends common sense. Because there are no professional workers missing. So it's a need, but it's a lack of professional workers. So what's the problem with moving from one piece to another, if that's it? No too many sentences, no arguments as to why they are abolished and why they are joined together. I don't even mind being joined or abolished, but if there's a reasonable explanation, there's no reason here. But to me, I can't get the impression that Croatia seems to mind everything as soon as the family is mentioned. I don't know if you need a Croatian family as much as it does to destroy the family, and what particularly offends me, it's a relationship to the newly born children. If the same addition to each child has no graduation, then it means that we give up the future of children and that we give up the Croatian future because the Croats are less born and less alive today than they did 10 and 15 years ago and then the same treatment has, it means that we do not want new Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62534	Thank you. To the reply of colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62535	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Maric, I still have something to commend. This is one of the few laws that is passed in this Chamber in two readings and in the meantime they have been consulted at least so said that a public debate on this topic in this bill is being held, although I do not understand when consultation with the interested public has already been carried out that those who have submitted observations and proposals, especially when it comes to associations of parents with developmental difficulties, that their remarks have not been respected or that they have not at least explained why this has not happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62536	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, a respected representative of Vishny Fortuna will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62537	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies with associates. So, this bill, yes, it's a good thing it was in two readings and it's a good thing it was a public debate in the meantime, but I'd be quick to refer to what's been said so far and I haven't been able to say in five minutes. First of all, I'd like to say again about the family centers. I was the first to speak for this speaker as much as you were part of a respected representative. But believe me, I've given myself another effort, I've spoken to the city of Zagreb and looking at the number of people, etc. in the city of Zagreb. When I saw at the level of the entire Croatian family centres, believe that there were family centres at the level of Croatia and there are even today who have one employee and director, etc. That's the first one. What work they did and how much they strengthened and implemented projects and programs I would not comment on at all. Furthermore, I said in the replica now, I said briefly that in this period it was intergenerational solidarity, the ministry was so called and so did that help and him in the house that I have to repeat once again, help and him in the house was a service that was then provided to all those who were evaluated by the local mayor, the mayor, who determined who would conduct it. I mean, I don't know if he set it up, I don't know how it was determined, and the users were the ones that needed it, I believe, I hope, and now I won't be saying any doubt. However, the aid and him in the house are not only carried out in rural areas. It is regulated in the Social Care Act, it is a social care service that must be in the Law, it refers to older and powerless persons and those who need it, it is in cities both in urban and rural areas. In the city of Zagreb we have help and care in the house, we managed to increase 20% of the price in order for more users to exercise that right and I agree with all speakers that it is absolutely necessary, but it is necessary in this way as it is now regulated in this law and not in the way that it was, I don't even know where it was regulated, here I apologize but I really can't remember it any further in the law, in which way it was regulated that the funds were being determined, that there were no records, that there were no criteria and I repeat it wasn't a good way. Dear Representative I think Ivić said at one point so they could pay for it themselves, if you remember today in the debate, so why were the funds given out of the RS budget if someone could pay for it themselves. Now the criterion and the help and him in the house will be made free of charge for every person who needs it, who cannot afford to pay for it alone, who has no restraint and who has no property. It has also been said here today that in relation to property it is not right, if there is another small country or something small etc., my dear gentlemen, respected MPs and MPs, so what would you tell me about the pensioners who have had from their work, who have worked the whole working life and now have a pension like they do because at this point in time, financial crises cannot have. We agreed with that, and with this, that a complete asset censorship and property was not taken into account as it was governed by the law. I'm sorry about that, but I couldn't agree, and that's why I support these proposals in the law that are set out here. Furthermore, I would say that, I would say now, so this was what I had to say so far. As for this Act, the bill of course we will support it but the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will have one amendment and it will refer to a single, single working and single person working incompetent. I would now explain to you in means because when we go in procedures you can see better. The single man working under the current law had 600 kuna compensation, a single man incapacitated under the current law had 850 kuna, so he had 150 kuna more. Now, according to this new law, a single man is working hard and incapacitated with the same amount of 800 kuna. Our proposal will be to increase the amount to 960 kuna for a working incompetent male. I know that the promoter will answer that they can exercise the right for both personal disability and extras for other people's care and assistance. It's true, but it's very small, and tomorrow it's going to be an inclusive supplement, they're working incompetent singles, who are extremely, who have severe damages, who need other people's help, etc. So it's going to go into the amendment, so I'd like to pray if there are those funds and there's not a lot of users here to respect that amendment, but it's going to be on Friday the subject and also the people who are old and powerless, unable to work and attract, so they're over 65 years old, they're now receiving 1100 kuna, two, and now it's proposed by law 960 kuna. Also, we have proposed a 30% increase with the amendment so that these people will now receive 1440 kuna together. Here I would refer again to the part I was talking about our pensioners. Now I'm talking about people of older age. I would just remind you that we have signed a common memorandum of social inclusion, i.e. JIM and where we have signed that state support for older people will also be introduced. So that's where we said that an elderly person without a pension represents a particularly socially vulnerable group because of a high poverty rate. When it comes to their material subjection, in 2009, and now it is an analysis of how it has changed, and how it hasn't, but there I remind you that it was and agreed was both social and pension and support for the elderly. For all of these reasons, I think that this amendment that I'm talking about right now certainly makes sense, and that's more like 12 or 13% of the people I've been talking about here. And I'd just mention it because we really talked, and in my first reading, I talked enough about the law, but I'd still mention that with this, this law came into force on January 1, 2014. I would really ask a question here and a little, in fact, to the representative of the competent ministry, Madam Deputy, did they prepare themselves for 1 January 2014, when supplies to defenders and military and civilian war victims were abolished, as well as for the extended fee paid by long-term unemployed persons registered in the employment service? I'll say that the defense attorney, military and civilian victims of war, has, or has, about 10,000, and the person at the Employment Office has about 5,000. I don't think the number's small and on January 1st they should, in January they'll still get help because help always goes like that, but already in the second month if it wasn't prepared, and I believe they'll answer me here, they'd be helpless. I also wonder if, by this new criterion and by this new law, everyone will have the right to help. It probably won't, so that's where we're going to have to, I think, see what and how with these users, or future users, who are going to enter the welfare system. I believe you'll also see with them a way if they're really threatened, if they don't have these pensions, property, etc. That's where he'll find himself. And this whole other thing about family empowerment, of everything we've been saying here, we've brought today, we haven't brought sorry, we've had first reading of Family Law, through Family Law, you've seen what it is, 555 or 51 is an article. It really strengthens the family, and it won't lose anything, as family centres are abolished because people remain, spaces remain, everything remains, new people will be hired safely, because for such a big job the social care center certainly can't do it alone. So I, uh, have faith in the D.O.D., that it has not passed, has proposed these laws if there is no solution. I believe that there is also a Club of the Croatian Retired Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62538	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62539	Thank you very much. Comrade Fortuna, you mentioned the help in the house and quoted a colleague, Ivić, from HDZ. But you still stayed in the house for help, as a criterion of property censorship. And you didn't, it seems to me that you didn't realize that the help in the house was not only a measure of social care, but rather a fellow Ivić said, and a solidarity of society. Let's just say, for example, that any of the representatives, members of the government, etc. He'll experience an apoplexy, so he'll flatter him into saying the word of the people, and he'll have sugar and high blood pressure, and he'll live on his own. Does he need help in the house? He'll pay for it. It's not a problem. So it's not the point that he's looking for poverty, he's looking for help in the house because he's weakly mobile, that's right. So it's not about the censorship of property but about helping society all of that man, that person. So whether or not she's gonna pay for it or be really on the property censorship, she's gonna pay for social care, that's another thing. But the help in the house is something other than what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62540	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62541	Thank you very much. I said that the help in the house must be regulated by law, then it's regulated here. She's not right, she's a social care service, I said that and, excuse me, I'm not going to read you now, article 80, so read it, it's your answer to your question. This Regulation shall enter [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] The Social Welfare Act, it says last to you, and point 5, read it. That's your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62542	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Fortuna, it seems to me that you have made a little reference in the debate and to me when I was talking about family centers. I must admit it's been a pleasure listening to you because you're from the system and you're ruling the subject as a rare who. And that's why I'm going to look back at these family centers. I said I didn't know whether or not to, what they were doing, but this bill lacks an explanation of what was expected of them, whether they met expectations, what are expected, what are the shortcomings and why are they being abolished? There's only one explanation to be abolished, because they don't have enough professional workers. It's the same as if it were an explanation we're going to close the school because we don't have two professors. It is unacceptable for me to reason, and therefore I do not accept such an explanation in the merger and abolition of family centers. I will support your amendment because in the first debate, I also said that they were denied that he was not equal to a single working and incapacitated and that it should be distanced. But I hope that you will also support the proposal that it cannot be treated equally or that we must encourage and build an allowance or supplement to the first, second or third or fourth child, if we want to worry about Croatia's future and that we should find a way to finance a family with more children. And it should also be borne in mind that there was abuse and that I have a special relationship with children with developmental difficulties simply to stop that heart, but that they should bear in mind in their treatment and property status of their parents, that there were cases of the richest parents in Croatia, their child with developmental difficulties financed by the state, and they were at the same time the richest individuals in the Republic of Croatia. I think that should be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62544	Thank you. Fortun's colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62545	So here's thank you for what you said at the beginning, but I'm going to say that now that I've looked at everything, I'm asking why the family centers were founded, that would be my question. And in some ways at that time, and also today, indeed, an institution of the social care center if there is no cohesion, and I am told that there is no real logic that it is one institution that is tied to a court, to a family court, future or family department, etc. And it is certain that if we have one legal entity that is responsible at least by my judgment and by my own professional view of it at this point, it is more quality certainty. We'll see, but that's what I think now. When family centres were established, I wondered why they were founded, and then I saw that some of it was going to talk about Zagreb, when I watched the whole of Croatia it wasn't really that and that's why they were abolished, and that's why they proposed it. As far as this amendment is concerned, I think I agree, we proposed that I agree with it, but what you said next, I also have special sensitivity all of us, I don't think there are any MPs or MPs here who aren't particularly sensitive but also so here and here you can see that I also showed the article where the help in the house is also there and the censorship we have everything. So we need to see really in every situation whoever has and who can somehow ensure themselves alone, but it should always be given and it is also a day's chance that they still have these children and persons with disabilities different status from other users.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62546	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fortuna colleagues, you have well noticed that the supplies of Croatian defenders have gone into social care and will be paid as a special measure which is stated in this law, which is guaranteed minimum compensation. I would like it to say in this law that they will take over all the documents from the Office of State Administration to be completed with the necessary documents they need. And I don't know, I don't know if all those users who were around 5.5 thousand on the singles supply know that they're going to lose 297 kuna, but we also know that reducing them isn't some amount that's going to fill out the state budget. And also if they have to be registered at the Employment Office, which is not clear to me whether or not they need them, but I believe that they need to be referred to in order to deliver the documentation in good time and to avoid losing that use they have so far through another department or state administration office. I believe that you have seen that it is possible for those who are working or who are partly able to work. These defenders who were they were all declared incapable of any kind of attraction, so I don't think they should even be at the Employment Services.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62548	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62549	This part of the esteemed representative fears that they will not be able to hand over the documentation, etc. What I'm learning is that this has already begun to be resolved and the items are already being delivered where it is necessary just so that it doesn't happen what you've just said. And I was convinced when I said it wasn't going to happen, it certainly shouldn't happen at all, but when I found out later that the Office of the State Administration was involved in all this together, so all together will be so that with the 1.2. because in the 1st month and that's how they get benefits or benefits, so that's certainly not going to happen. And as far as this is concerned, I don't have an analysis here, I believe the Ministry has it this rest cannot speak on behalf of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62550	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with co-workers, assistants. Here is mostly to see that gender equality exists. We've got all the ladies here from the ministry today. Since today is the day that is due to the signing of the UN declaration of human rights, we celebrate, we mark, and then to mention it. In Croatia, a third of the population is poor and according to all indicators taken for the assessment of poverty in society. When the survey was conducted I don't know exactly who the initiator was, then the perception of people in Croatia was 75% of them said they felt poor. So they're not in that category of poor people who are poor by the standards of poverty but feel poor, 75%. Almost every day I'd say that number's increasing. And in fact, this law, a legal proposal and poverty is what is called and what is called and constantly promotes and makes fear in Croatian society as a crawling coup. This is a crawling poverty that has reached almost catastrophic proportions. Now, the role of social care and welfare centers. A minimum fee of 2900 kuna guaranteed. All those who had supplies, Croatian defenders, will need to obtain documentation to get out of, and to move the documentation from one ministry to another in order to achieve that guaranteed minimum fee. Whether or not some or more of them will be lost in the transfer from the ministry to the ministry or lose their status, and that will be seen very soon. However, that provision, which amounted to 1094 kuna, was obtained at the Ministry of Defence with a certain delay because the documentation was brought by New Year’s, and then the solution came after the Commission’s decision or by someone already in May, etc. So there was a problem with these supplies. It is true that we are looking and we want all together, regardless of the party's premonition of a fairer system of social care distribution. And also to say... Social care is taken away by those who receive any form of social care unjustly and inconsequentially, and 81 is the right to social care in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The creation of a single cash centre where all the funds will be allocated, I think it's a good idea. Information with a link to the tax and everything else as Mr Shucker said in order to find out from the OIB and property possibly shares or shares in companies so that that part would fall off too if those shares were large or someone had a large number of shares so that that part would fall off not into the fakes but that they would receive unaccompanied some kind of social assistance would also be good. Today there have also been talks about poverty in Europe, so Latvia or Latvia has been mentioned as saying somewhere, so Greece, Romania, Bulgaria etc. And we all know that after the crisis broke out in Greece, there were riots and demonstrations and angry fighting in the streets and because in Greece some were stripped of their 14th or 13th wages. When did someone in Croatia receive a 13th or 14th salary? And not only that, but also the goddesses and the regressions, etc. So to speak of Greece as a country where there is worse living than in Croatia and I did not give a replica to a colleague who said it but I would not bet that in Greece the social situation is worse than in Croatia. Family centers that were mentioned today, and with the reason that they are attached to welfare centres without loss, in order to say, without loss in people and material because in one single sentence it is defined as a lack of professional workers, then one would think that the answer to such an explanation means getting professional workers. Instead, we're going to get them to join the welfare center. So the solution is not in line with what the centers are actually attached to. They're connecting or how someone here likes to say they're shutting down. Help in the house. I repeat here and the lady warned me about the article, she understands very well, and she is with me in the Committee on Health and Social Care. And it's very well understood that, from that faha comes after all, I know how to operate and she doesn't know about social care and I don't know enough about social care even though I meet patients who need very much social care, especially those who are amputated, etc. But good for that now is a matter of profession. So still, and if I read article 80 correctly, was that so? 80, yes, in paragraph 5, I don't think I'm going to say that I'm not clear enough, but I'm still saying that regardless of the property censorship, regardless of the property censorship, the need for other people's help is therefore not solely related to the property censorship, I'm talking about it. So I have also cited a case in which any of us, members of the Government, president, may not give God to the President of the Republic, etc. to fall into such a situation or to need someone else's help. No matter what he might have, he might have a big pension, etc. and according to special and non-specific conditions, under ordinary conditions. So this is about society in general as someone said intergenerational solidarity takes care of people who need it. I hope the article in the 80s will work out such a solution, but here they were alive and we'll see. In addition, we will also support the HSU amendment that tries not to give a sign of equality between workable and incompetent singles in terms of social assistance by looking at the monetary amount and not being as big as it should actually be given the ability to work and work incompetence, although every man is different and then that working ability varies as working incompetence. So it can be someone seriously sick, immobilized, someone a little less etc., so it's very difficult to legally frame every case. It's important to have good intentions and good faith. Why the law has changed three times, I can't figure it out myself. The first was the one in three years, so in 2011, while the HDZ was supported by the World Development Bank, then after that a year ago, this Kukurik coalition passed the law again, and now this is the third law. Let's hope this one says, to repeat, he says he likes a word like my colleague Cain who's not there, crawling a coup on the poorest, he won't ask for a new change of law. But it's actually a total of Croatian state poverty, not moving forward in the economy, no new employment, no investments, no income leftovers, and that's why we're going through this legal, these articles of the law, the items and anyway we're looking for fakes and all that, I get it. But I'm saying, in an empty house, we act like horns in a bag and here in this political arena, and also in society in general, and then here we are looking for a new law that we're going to try and fix. It's all in vain if our country moves forward in that economic and economic segment. We can write social care laws as much as we want, we can... Swedish as someone here said, etc., but in vain. There will be more and more users, as one has already said, 10,000 new ones, and 7,000 have been found by the fakes, and 10,000 new ones have already reported an application for social care in any form. And this trend will continue and there won't be enough money, there won't be enough funding for social care in Croatia or we will become all the expensive social case together with the Republic of Croatia. This legal proposal of the HDSSB club is up to Friday, we'll think about it a little bit, we'll consult and we'll decide until the vote whether or not we vote for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62552	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. Vishnya Fortuna, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62553	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I just wanted to tell you why three laws were passed to remember. So the first law, the first of these three I speak, was passed if you remember before the election, before these parliamentary elections, I don't know the exact date, but I know that there were a few months before the election, and then the solution was really that social care centres as it was proposed couldn't act and function. I wouldn't say it again. We all remember it very well. Afterwards, changes and additions to the law were urgently needed to be made so that social care centres could function, and times were not enough to make a new Social Care Act at that time, and then we said that there would be a new law very soon because this is exactly what was done in the previous law before the elections. So these are the reasons for these three laws and this is now on the benches of our final text of the new law that we agree with, we disagree, but I would say here that it's quality and good, of course there are some of these shortcomings, but it covered everything we said that should actually be covered. And as for the help and care of the house, yes, it's true what you said, I just said that there's a censorship or in that article is regulated for those who can't pay for it. It is a social care service, it can be paid and everyone will be able to pay for it and those who will provide that service will be able to charge it naturally in accordance with the law, regulation, etc. And I would add that, given that there is an increasing proportion of elderly people year by year, that these living centers, various services, will help in the house, nurse, geronto housewife, etc. more and more will be needed and given that the population is ageing every local, regional, state, etc. We will have to think hard, hard as quickly as possible, and as much as possible, of such centers that could really provide help and care to all those in need in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62554	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62555	Thank you very much. My colleague Fortuna, you see here today was, I wasn't deliberately talking about that there was talk about that the family centers founded let's say HDZ and that's their shot so now here it's being abolished. That's what the HDZ said. He also did not return HDZ that the centres were separated, created 22, created 68 in which the SDP set up its people, its 68 people and other logistics, etc. That follows you all in the centers. So I don't care. I'm interested in passing and this law actually gets into the core of things. The content of this legislative proposal does not take up the history of what happened during HDZ or during the SDP. So let's discuss the core, and here's some stuff you brought up. We're going to do some of your proposals and support it so that practice will actually show how this law will work. God forbid we're reducing resources, God forbid we're finally going forward, so one day we say here, there's no need for that kind of resources and all that follows the social care that's currently very significant in the state, and that ministry is taking a very, very important role.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62556	Thank you. Boris Kovacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was challenged by what you finally said, Mr. Representative, even though that's exactly what most of Mrs. Fortuna was replicating, so you called this law some kind of law. In that palette when you listed these three last laws, the eleventh, the twelfth, or thirteenth years, this last one you simply baptized some law, so here it caused me, perhaps you've already forgotten it. It doesn't matter that much. What is important is what is already said, that just when we have been making amendments, the 2012 law of the Minister and all those who have defended the need for amendments to that law because of the very need for greater efficiency of the social care centre is then already said to be preparing a new law. That's why I can't accept any qualifications. Then a new law was said through a systematic social care settlement as it deserves it. But here's to not repeating myself, and that's what Mrs. Fortuna was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62558	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now you tell me, colleague Kovačić, you can't, yes. We can do it for coffee somewhere. Are you preparing a new law now to announce it immediately for next year? As if it were very important that it was announced that it would be a new, completely new law. Perhaps even now you can announce that in a year there will be a new law again. In two years, I don't know when it'll be. But I have said what is even more important, and that is where happiness is that we do not overturn these items and these articles and look at a very dense solution to the social rights of people, those who are really needed and threatened and where happiness one day begins employment, so that people slowly fall away from ours to say our mother's tits - states and that we do not have to have so much separation for social care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62560	Thank you, too. And the last replica Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you spoke to me about Croatian poverty. Poverty threatens the people when most people cannot meet their basic needs, and in Croatia it is already becoming a majority. They're getting worse and less and less, and they're getting worse and they're getting worse and they're getting worse. In Croatia, although the economy is not everything, but it is nothing without the economy, because everything is based on the economy and everything is being built, and it is stagnating, it is in recession. But perhaps the only thing that should arouse optimism is that the Deputy Prime Minister and economic policy holders are satisfied that we do not have a larger drop because it could be bigger. We're pleased to see that we're falling so little by freefall, we're not even pushing yet. Unemployment rises, available income falls, consumption declines, industrial production falls, everything but prices. It's just that prices are rising extremely. Food products in a year 40%. Then, with this kind of economic policy, it is no longer a threat to poverty but hunger. But most of them, while most of the famines go at the same time, some of the selected groups are much better in Croatia. I'll only bring up one piece of information. Four years ago, the total net profit of some entrepreneurs in Croatia was 24 billion kuna, and now a smaller number, 30% of the fewer entrepreneurs achieved last year in the largest year of the crisis 34 billion kuna net profits after tax. Isn't it frightening that we all have to imagine and that maybe one day this majority won't end up on welfare and most of us with this kind of economic policy. Only then will they have nothing to pay compensation from because we will be or in debt slavery or hungry. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62562	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62563	Thank you very much. Dear Maric, it is said who is stagnating that backward, who is stagnating, who is standing back because the whole world is moving forward, and we are standing or even falling slowly. Now they say a minor fall. So that gentleman you were talking about, the vice-president of the government, is actually as far as I know before they came to power to say, he gave us the theory of economics, the theory of the economy. And when he's caught a real economy then he sees what it's really like to have nothing behind it, that there's no, hollow story, that's exactly what it is. So what you said, that the price of food and that we're actually artificially talking about inflation is two, two percent. So look, here's an example. I like concrete examples. Every morning, I buy a pizza when I go to work, the pyro, the Zagreb-based cheese pie that cost three-and-a-half kuna. Since 10 days ago, she's five kunas. How much is the increase? Over 40%. And it really is. Let's say she jumped to 4 kunas, but 5 kunas, from 3 and a half to 5, which confirms, and there's less packaging to confirm. That's what I objected to. Why is it smaller now? He says I don't know, that's how the manufacturer produces, so what can I do? So you're really right, and thank you for the replica you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62564	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62565	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of helping those who are permanently or temporarily unable to participate in their own community is not a matter of mercy, it is a matter of the purpose and purpose of the state. Social policy is the responsibility of the state. This Law on Social Care proves that our country and our policy take responsibility and that despite the difficult situation in which our country finds ways to distribute funds in a more just way and ensure that those who have come into a difficult social situation at least a little better life. The main intention of the promoter and of this law is to better target aid to those who really need to be distributed more fairly within the resources available for social compensation, to be distributed more fairly. And we believe that the adoption of this Law on Social Welfare will do so. Finally, by informing the social care system and connecting with other systems through the OIB system, it will facilitate the insight into the property and incomes of the users and prevent anyone with more real estate or perhaps valuable movements from using even vessels or works of art to which they have no right at all. This bill simplifies and reduces the administration and calculation of social benefits, achieves accurate records and establishes control of the exercise of rights. The law provides for and introduces a minimum fee guaranteed by the Institute, which has been talked about a lot, and in front of the club I want to repeat that it is important to stress that it cannot be higher than the gross minimum wage in our Republic. We think it's a good provision and it's a good message because we think it's simply wrong for someone who, for any reason at any given time, is not able to ensure that their basic needs are met with greater resources than those who provide and create the same means by their work. This also lays down the principle of social justice that requires the user to exercise rights under the social care system cannot achieve a more favourable material position than the person who makes the means of life work work or on the basis of the rights arising from that work. It shall not occur that a workable user of a guaranteed minimum fee refuses the offered job, training, requalification or qualification without still having the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. In a way, we all have a responsibility or responsibility for our actions or our failures. And this law seems to us, in the club of the CNS, a fair link between rights and liability. Puts emphasis on individual responsibility. The law also refers to the principle of individualisation of each user i.e. help is provided in line with the real needs of people. This, in turn, is linked to one of our very important principles, which is the principle of participation in decision-making. The users of social services are encouraged by this bill to participate actively, actively influence their own life and decide on most of its aspects. Already, in the first reading of the law, we talked a lot about how many care for their parents leaving the state but not the inheritance. Again, we particularly commend the provisions of the laws which prescribe the right of the Republic of Croatia to repay amounts paid in the name of the right to the guaranteed minimum fee and the right to the service of accommodation or residence. We prayed, if you remember the respected deputy minister in the first reading of this law, we prayed and suggested that some fellow MPs and the mayor of Bakar fellow MP Klaric be made more clear to the articles of the law concerning the recording and reimbursement of paid amounts and damages. We prayed that there would be no unequal interpretations or misunderstandings of the implementation of this process. It has not come to this, so with special attention we will follow along with you I believe the respected deputy ministers of law enforcement and if there are problems in its implementation we will encourage you, as well as all of us, to any change and addition. In the meantime, the HNS club supports the proposed law because it additionally introduces order into the system, prescribes greater responsibility for labour-efficient social service recipients and helps those most in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62566	Thank you, too. And we're moving on to an individual debate. Boris Kovačić, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister with your associates. Here, I'll do it very briefly. Since I have taken part in this individual debate, I have the right to speak only of some, so I seem to have the right, to have certain aspects of this proposed law. But I would also like to say something from the aspect of behavior and acquisition of experience, 13-year experience, in the local self-government unit where I was and spent as a leader, especially when it comes to social care, then I can say justice never enough, never too much. And the more it seems to me that she is more difficult and painful in these categories of people, especially when it comes to older people and powerless people, people with disabilities and, of course, what I should have mentioned in the first place. Well, I did get a little bit of that, and to put it that way, I've seen and gained experience. Unfortunately, we have bitter or memorable ones like that. So for this reason, I have also mentioned in the replica that it is time and that a new text of law should be passed, and as the Minister also announced in time and the Deputy Prime Minister through a systematic social care resolution. The more I think that this proposed text of the law, the more we said in the first reading, and now, especially here in this second reading, I really think that more order has been introduced and that we need this, given that if I'm not wrong, we have a total tax code 81 right if I'm not wrong, and through the units of local self-government or there's a difference between units and units, that I'm sorry that there are even these differences because they depend on the fiscal strength of a single person, but please nice and there's that kind of justice. So this introduction of more order is to greet. The more I think he would especially highlight the social services and information network. It's very, very important because of the overall cooperation it takes, and I'm going to say something about it a little bit later through two, three sentences. Therefore, the good provision of the article in the first reading was that Article 28 is now ten more, so it is likely that 38th co-operation of the social care center with employment services. I would also extend this cooperation to local self-government units, but I thought, in particular, to the provisions of Articles 218 and 219 of this law, which speak of the need for training of professional workers, so Article 218 speaks of professional training that involves individual and organised, etc. in the profession that I am not reading all of this now, and especially in Article 219 of the Supervision, which involves the process of learning, development and methods of support to professional workers, and I absolutely welcome it because I believe that the expertise, experience and knowledge of certain local opportunities are crucial for the good work of centres and people working at the Social Care Centre. So I keep these provisions extremely important to the team more that this text of the law is a great responsibility but not only responsibility but also a number of responsibilities are in front of the centres, regardless of what the minister said today that four jobs were now deprived when she spoke of the Family Law, I think there is still a great commitment. However, I would like to point out one aspect of this particular aspect. It is of paramount importance that people work in the center primarily highly trained. It's in the first place, professional workers but also maybe I'm a little old-fashioned. But also those people who know the terrain very well. You mention here in the law mentions experience and so on, but that's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying for a reason. I do not root and I do not have the right to talk about local employment because we are talking first of all about professional workers, educated but on the other hand here I insist and root for people who will not have a pass-by job in the centres and we have such experiences, unfortunately, how responsible the ministry or someone else is, we can also talk about it, but I advocate for professional people who will stay in the centre who will know the terrain and who will know the local opportunities well. And I appeal to greater cooperation with local and regional self-government units. So, what I said at first with expertise, experience, familiarity with local opportunities, I think it's of particular importance for the good work of the welfare center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62568	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the Deputy Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62569	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here I am going to use these two minutes more alone, and I am not going to finally and finally clarify the story of the family centers. Family centers are not lifted by the movement of feathers, that family centers wanted to be abolished as the feather movement said here there was a possibility, last February the Social Care Act changed. On that occasion this opportunity was an excellent opportunity to do such a thing, but it was not intended to be done precisely under the management of those who are engaged in using the English term cor business and it is the social care centres, those who are engaged in the main business in the field of family policy, under their leadership we are convinced professional when family centres will be well guided because they should be given a role, give a purpose and give a goal. It is the social care centres that welcome the decision to join the family centres in a way that they become their founding units because they also need professional advice and all these jobs that will be assigned to them by new family law. As for the concerns of preparation, for the application of the new Social Welfare Act, there is no such concern, all preparations for implementation as guaranteed minimum fees and all other institutes under the new Social Care Act started already in October, meetings with centres are constantly being held. On Friday, there is another one of these meetings with the directors of all the Social Care Centres if there are any more enquiries not only of course about switching to guaranteed minimum compensation but also about all other issues that are inconceivable. Thank you very much for the discussion. All amendments submitted will be carefully considered, if some of them are not included there is still a possibility in the final line for complementing and upgrading our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62570	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I thank your associates, too. This concludes the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met, and tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal of the Pension Insurance Act, the second reading of P.Z. No. 509. Have a nice rest of the evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62571	Final proposal of the Social Care Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 510. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments have been filed, we have a special plate. I would like to ask the representative of the Proposer, Honored Maja Sporish, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth to show up on Amendment 1. HSU counseling club. Retracted. Thank you very much. Amendment number 2. Croatian Labour MPs' club, respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62572	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. An amendment under regular number 2 shall not be accepted. In the event of the adoption of this amendment during the temporary stay of the child, overlapping of rights that serve the same needs would take place. Since the right to temporary accommodation is already recognised, it ensures that the basic needs of users are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62573	On behalf of the amendment promoter, who is reporting? Dear Representative Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62574	The fact is that in this amendment we have asked to add the word "long-term" and the amendment is initiated cases from practice that a parent who has, who is also a guardian of such a child has health problems during which he cannot behave his duty. In particular, there was a case where people went to hospital for 2 months and during that time the child lost the right to a personal disability. I don't think it's any cost to talk about a case that parents of such children pointed out. Therefore, it is not something that is someone's whim, but examples from practice, and I think such cases will be negligiblely small, and it is really embarrassing to deny, in such cases, the right to a personal disability. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62575	Please state the amendment number two. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3. The HDZ representative's club respects the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62576	It's unacceptable. The extension of the allowed daily stay of persons with the most severe damage in institutions over the prescribed time would prejudice the purpose of recognising this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62577	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Juričev-Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62578	Well, it's inadmissible that the Social Services Act isn't socially sensitive enough. It's absurd for you to have a child with developmental difficulties of four hours and 15 minutes of thinking that you should abolish parenting status. I ask you how many jobs there are in the Republic of Croatia that allow parents to bring a sick child to school, go back to their workplace, work for 4 hours and after 4 hours and 15 minutes to pick up that same child again. With understanding, we've put in six hours, and I think eight hours should be a minimum that can lose one of those statuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62579	Are you asking for a vote? Yeah. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 3 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4 Clubs of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62580	It is not accepted, and the explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62581	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62582	I agree, it is the same text, the same article of the law, and we even heard it in the discussion of the interpretation, which is why it is not accepted that we did not read correctly that in paragraph 4. of the same article this right is possible. So do you think this parent who has such a child has no right to another child? Maybe he wouldn't have, if he didn't have to stay with that other kid. That's four hours you're denying, that's a limit, and in the same law, you're already talking about six hours. And I absolutely agree with this finding, if such a law can't be at least a minimum social one, then I don't know what we can expect from you. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62583	Please state the amendment number 4 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the HDZ MPs' club, respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62584	It's unacceptable. On the basis of the analyses carried out, the expert established the legitimate annexation of family centres to social care centres and the final proposal for a social care law does not provide for a family centre as an institution of social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62585	On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62586	Well, it's a shame that this is explained as some kind of savings, and we know that the same spaces remain, the same employees, so we're changing the inscriptions, the records, the memos, the card cards, just going to come up with new costs if the spaces and the people who've been doing it still stay on the same jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62587	Are you asking for a vote? ... Please state the amendment number five of the HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 of the IDS Representatives Club and of the Independent Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62588	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the amendment under regular number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62589	On behalf of the Club, the applicant for the amendment is the Honorable Representative Valter Bjemunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62590	Thank you. So, we're... more amendments that are tied up, and they're essentially very similar to the previous amendment, and it's about asking them to stay family centres because the services of family centres aren't just for those who need social care. In addition, social care institutions usually have so much work to do that now this additional job that will be taken will definitely reduce the level of service provided by the family center. I think it's in the sense of preventive action that you should stay. And you have also forgotten that throughout a number of certain signatures of international human rights are protected, and in its plans, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the fact that it will remain family centres and that family centres will be supported and monitored. So it's a little out of line. I think one important fact is put in an area where it's just not going to come up with that role we have. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62591	I would like to make a statement on Amendment 6 of the IDS Representatives Club and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the same club of representatives and the same representative, IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62592	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the amendment under regular number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62593	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62594	The reason is the same as I said before. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62595	I'd like to make a statement about amendment number seven of the representatives' clubs the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62596	It's unacceptable. The explanation is also the same as for the amendment under regular number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62597	On behalf of the applicant, a respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62598	Thank you very much. Well, we're just aware of the situation and we've suggested that part of the cost of funding be borne by the local self-government unit, so, unfortunately, you didn't accept it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62599	You're asking for a vote, too? Please state the amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. [[I'm looking for a vote, yes.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number nine of respected representatives of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62600	It's unacceptable. The professional holder had no intensities at all in this way to regulate public private partnership issues in the social care system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62601	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62602	I must say, it might have been better if he had because we would probably have come up with a much better chance of solving the issues of old and powerless people. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62603	I would like to make a statement on Amendment 9 of the Honored Representative Branko Hrg which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 10 of the same representative, respected Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62604	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62605	Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62606	Same thing. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62607	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 10 of Honored Representative Branko Hrg which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 11 of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62608	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as the reasons for the amendment under regular number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62609	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62610	Thank you very much. It is interesting to hear that the government does not accept, and the government programme that has taken over for the implementation of the EU acquis for 2013 envisioned a continuation of the work of family centres. Your ministry has supported the monitoring of the work of family centres through a strategic plan for the period from 2013-2015 and from 2014-2016. It's so interesting to hear that now the government and that same ministry don't accept this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62611	Please state the amendment No. 11. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 12. IDS, Furia Radina, Walter Boluncic's club, and who's the third I don't know?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62612	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the amendment under regular number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62613	On behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62614	It's the same explanation as before, so I'm looking for a vote again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62615	Please state the amendment No. 12th IDS representative of the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 13th of the same club of IDS MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62616	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is also the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62617	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62618	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62619	Please state the amendment No. The 13th government doesn't accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 14. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62620	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62621	On behalf of the HDZ Club, they're looking for a vote. Please state the amendment No. 14. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 15. Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62622	The amendment is not accepted. The professional holder considered that there was no need for additional legal and nootechnic regulation of the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62623	He's retreating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62624	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 16th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62625	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62626	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62627	He's pulling no. 16. Amendment No. 17 representatives of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62628	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the amendment under regular number 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62629	Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, by refusing those amendments, we have already made one discrimination because in decentralised functions when we send money to the county and regional self-government to finance nursing homes and accommodation of pensioners to nursing homes, we are in fact bringing into an unequal position other pensioners who are located in private homes or homes that the citizens have raised in another model. This model we're proposing here in this amendment is actually a much better model than a public-private partnership, but I'm allowing it to be good. So you are no longer building homes from the social budget, from the state budget and local budgets, but you are building in other ways. In this way, if a model of building rights is put in place and a model is not invented so it already exists, it is done that I think in a very simple way you can solve the issue of building a large number of homes for old and powerless and the question of subsidising accommodation in those homes. Whether from local self-government, whether from regional or from the state itself. So I don't think this idea and this proposal was well considered, but okay. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62631	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 17 respected representatives of Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 18th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62632	It's unacceptable. The professional holder did not have the intensities to regulate the issue of public-private partnership in the social care system, i.e. to include the right to build.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62633	Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62634	I wasn't even talking about a public-private partnership, so I was talking about a model that we called the right to build. And it's not a model of a public-private partnership, it's a model that brought it back to practice. I would like to invite representatives or representatives of the ministry to come to the Križevci to present this model to you. We have investors who are interested in building more such homes in Croatia. We have the need in cities for people to settle in, we have the need to start investment cycles, we have the need to create new jobs. This model all offers very simple and very easy, very practical. If we could start 50 nursing homes, we'd start a billion kuna investment, we'd open 1500 jobs, and we'd take care of 5,000 pensioners. Without one kuna of state money or money from local self-government. I don't know if you had a good look, probably not, or if you didn't want to. You think you're the smartest. You're not the smartest one, we could take a look at what's going on around you, and maybe we could look a little differently to see that there are some ideas, some things that can be done better. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62635	Your Honor, you measure someone's mind with a measure of respect? Please state the amendment No. The 18th Honorable representative of Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62636	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the amendment under the regular number of 15 nomochniks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62637	He's retreating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62638	Amendment No. 19. Amendment No. 20th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62639	It's also not acceptable. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-10-0.u62640	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 80 votes in favour and 24 votes against the adoption of the Social Care Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer without the amendments adopted. We move to a debate on the established agenda, that is - Final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 509; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Article 194 to Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
