ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58214	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Preparing the 2014 budget and projections for '15. And '16. The government has met with a new increase in expenditures. What are these expenditures that are significantly growing in 2014? This is the full amount of contribution to the European budget, slightly less than 2 billion kuna of additional funds to be paid in the EU budget and, of course, if we want to be efficient and to raise more than 4 billion kunas from European funds, because somewhere there is a contribution to the EU budget in the coming year close to $3.7 billion, then there is also a need to provide additional funding for co-financing of projects from the EU. All of these are somewhere additional expenditures in the state budget of about 4.6 billion kuna. And, of course, the basic problem is where to raise such funds, given that the projections for next year's economic growth are not significant. At the same time, a constant problem, and the problem is called an increase in public debt, which means an increase in interest expenditure, and somewhere over 1.8 billion is the growth of interest expenditure next year. All this means a burden on the expenditure side of the budget, so it is always a question of how to close these new expenditures in the state budget that arise with me, I would say EU membership, and also with problems how to service public debt, which will be over 60% of GDP this year. This is also the reason why the government decided other than the reform measures that will be applicable and applied in 2014 to try to do something on the revenue side as well. How we estimate that the 5% rate is very high especially in the environment, the government has decided to increase rates from 10% to 13%. And basically this measure should bring about 600 million kunas of higher revenue into the state budget, which means when compared to nearly 6 billion increased expenditures in 2014 it is evident that it is only 10% of what is expected of us on the spending side, but we believe that we also need to do that part. Therefore, after these changes, Croatia would remain 25, 13 and 5 as the lowest. When we talk about what was so far at the interstep, then we know that most of this rate refers to accommodation and meals and drinks in hotels, campsites related to nautical tourism, food preparation and drinks in catering facilities, magazines that usually come out periodically, edible oils, fats of plant and animal origin, children's food, water delivery, white sugar and concert tickets and magazines for culture and art. All of these are areas that are so far in the interrelationship, they remain, and in some ways these rates, I say, rise from 10 to 13%. Also, given the controversy, I would say the provisional decisions of the Constitutional Court have been defined now and what is the reduced rate of 5% on the newspaper and publishers who have the status of the media, which means that they have to go out daily that they have to deal with the texts rather than advertising and advertising, which means that the daily newspaper with the overly written texts is now going at a reduced rate of 5%, and in some ways I think we have solved that part. To make the daily newspaper clearer 5%, 13% are again media and publishers who go out weekly or monthly, periodically and do not contain most ads as texts, and 25% remain those newspapers that are essentially mostly advertising. In this way, we have solved all the doubts about how we will tax magazines, newspapers, and individual editions. Also with the proposal for a law that is before you amendments and supplements, we have also defined the very clear release of certain goods and services, and regarding the operation of diplomatic and consular representations for the reason that problems have always arisen in practice so far that many diplomats and officials of diplomatic and consular offices had a problem because they had to have confirmation of the Foreign Ministry in order to be able to achieve tax relief on the spot. So at this point, we have solutions if they pay VAT to return these funds after payment if they are not already on site through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmation, so we also tried to resolve individual concerns and misunderstandings regarding the work of diplomatic representations. There have also been some problems in what are good that can be placed in tax warehouses and self-delivery within these tax warehouses. We have now increased the list of these goods that can be in internal storage and essentially their functioning in export to third countries, simplified procedures and were far clearer in expressions so that we also believe that some of the problems we had in implementing these provisions should no longer be present. We also have a lot of problems with certain provisions concerning applications to be submitted by foreign taxpayers, and they are related to international road transport of passengers because so far their obligation has been made every month, and most of these taxpayers outside Croatia appear only in tourist periods meaning in the main tourist season, so here we give the possibility that the finance minister prescribes certain provisions, all in order to facilitate the functioning of these foreign VAT taxpayers and in the section relating to road traffic. These would be about basic changes in the part of the addition of the Value Added Tax Act itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58215	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a replica. First replica of House Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear Minister, four months ago, we were here discussing something that appeared to be revolutionary, and that was a 25% reduction to 10% with a series of explanations that would fantastically help various segments. And if that was revolutionary, then I guess this is counter-revolutional because it's now going back one step and it's now increasing exactly for these things the VAT rate. I must say that this tax increase will, of course, be the most felt by the poor on the one hand, which is increasingly unfortunately in Croatia, and on the other hand, the middle layer that is again getting smaller, and these are craftsmen, they are teachers, they are nurses, they are doctors, however, they are stifled and they are stealing the state budget by their preparedness and duty. But what seems strange to me is that not to say funny are explanations why you're going into it now. One thing is that the problem is that expenditure is related to EU membership. So four months ago, we knew about these costs that we would have to have our financial contribution to the EU, so I don't know what changed dramatically from 4 months to today. Nothing. The second question is which explains that it is financing a high public debt due to debts and poor governance in the past. A month ago, you claimed that this year you would no longer be in debt abroad, now you are in charge of more than 13 billion kuna or a billion 750 million at high interest, interest greater than both Hungary and Romania and Slovenia's interest, Slovenia, which is said to be bankrupt, thus creating new responsibilities. We were said to be over-indebted now we have new responsibilities to do so and it was known and I don't understand what's problematic about the 4th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58217	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58218	Thank you, Mr. President. The government of the Republic of Croatia is not concerned with the revolution and the counter-revolution, it remains for you, Mr. MP, to do so. It's a brief response to revolution and counter-revolution. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is dealing with the crisis in the Republic of Croatia and is trying to solve the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. So, the story of it, last month this, last month what, revolutionaryly, that's your word, your rhetoric, your way of communicating. We have a crisis in the Republic of Croatia. The crisis is resolved both on the income and on the expenditure side. Therefore, the government's assessment that the crisis needs to be raised from 10% to 13%. Yes, the crisis in the Republic of Croatia will be paid by Croatian citizens. They will pay the citizens of Croatia, no one else, no one else. And that is very clear, the larger VAT mostly for Croatian citizens. And the crisis will be paid by the citizens of Croatia. And who's to blame for the crisis? You know that we have economic growth wouldn't be a problem. And why don't we have economic growth? So because you haven't taken care of the private sector for 8 years as a representative of HDZ, you haven't consolidated it, you've pushed it into completely wrong investments. You were simply away for 8 years from responsibility for the Croatian economy. And that is why the Croatian economy has not prepared to join the European Union. It's a basic problem, no economic growth. And Croatian citizens pay for this tragedy. And when we talk about being in charge, Mr. Representative, that the government has assessed that the market situation is more favourable than it would be in the first quarter, and this borrowing is for next year. For you to get your salary, for the citizens to get their pensions. And that for the next six months we could sleep more peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58219	Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58220	Thank you very much. Fortunately, the figures are accurate and can be dealt politically with however they will, however, they always tell the truth. So the problem of the Croatian budget began at the moment when the crisis started, what you do not want to admit is the 2008 budget that was almost balanced. And the end of the negotiations for entry into the European Union clearly states that the government has taken over. If you feel that the private sector needs to be dictated what it will do for all the honors. However, Mr. Minister, if you say we move this debate from political to professional, nice, fair, you are collegiately warned when reducing the rate not for tourism, the rate for tourism is reduced in 2006 but for catering from 25% to 10%. You are well warned that this is not good, that one false redistribution is carried out. And what is happening now, so because of one wrong decision you punish the tourism sector that is very important to Croatia. It is also important for us because of agriculture and because of the food industry that those who pay for the full pension in Croatia pay for this complete arrangement 150%. But he gave us this important thing. Those who can go to restaurants to eat let them pay a 25% rate and they will certainly pay. But it's not good that we're constantly transferring what the facts are to political waters. And you're going to say that even in 2008, the deficit wasn't 2.5 billion, but it was not what it was. But I'm saying, we're going to go back to some other years, and then we're going to do the same things that are said to be problematic today, in 2000 it was said it wasn't problematic. But such a debate, Mr. Minister, is as difficult for you as it is for this moment because you are the most responsible and all of us in Croatia will not take us anywhere. Let's talk real numbers, let's just say it's simple Something in the 7th month shouldn't have happened. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58221	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58222	If you're going to talk about numbers then give an explanation why you created 64 billion deficits per Eurostat in the last three years of your term. Give me an answer. That's where you'll see him, you haven't solved anything, not in the shipbuilding, not in the railways, not in the public companies, not in the economy. According to that, we can discuss numbers, always, however, I'd be happy to talk. And on the other hand, you try to understand something, it's wrong for you to have this coalition government step-by-step of 10% on food and drink services, and it's a matter of non-boarding consumption and leaving as much money as possible for tourists in Croatia. The main problem in tourism is low out-of-board consumption. For what? Because we have a very expensive, very expensive and unreal price of out-of-board services. And that was the policy of this government. Yeah, support tourism through that, too. As you can see, we're not changing it now, we could have wanted to raise to 25%. No, we don't think that's necessary. Simply that is all, companies operating in Croatia and having an interdependence and that is the policy of this government. Our policy is something else. Your policy, not to worry about extra board spending, is important to bring in a guest who will pay for the hotel room and will not spend in Croatia. That's what makes us so different. Therefore, these are differences in economic policy. This government thinks it's not just an important guest who sleeps in a hotel but spends as much as possible. In order to spend as much as possible, it must also have an acceptable price for services and service activities. So there's a difference in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58223	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the committees want to present reports of their working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Croatian Labourists and the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic is next. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58224	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As I prepare for this debate, I've been thinking about whether you'll come to regret your sins yourself, or whether you'll let your deputy go. And you've made a fair move that you normally do when you're free, you come to the Parliament, you listen to all the criticism, you pollomize with us, and you give answers. We sometimes don't like the answers, sometimes we like them, but you're consistent with yourself. There are two sayings you've probably heard, and it's worth repeating, in a people who now, there are no jokes anymore, when there are no jokes that it's a bad situation, one says God gave you Andrija Jarak reporting to you in front of the house, then you know who's coming, and the other means that God sent you a letter from Linic. What is happening in the tax system in Croatia is certainly not good. We could tell the opposition here, we told you, but we don't have any of that. I'll start with the most recent example, you said you were in the profession, not politics. 25000 words as a border on taxation we said that it is illegal and anti-constitutional, that there is no professional body, no professional person in Croatia who will distinguish by that principle, which is, and not a newspaper, daily newspaper. Then you told us that you were right, that we were wrong. There is a constitutional court of the Republic of Croatia which is what it is, created under the political agreement of the two largest parties but it is the only thing we have, which is beyond our decisions and the Constitutional Court has just said what the opposition in the Croatian Parliament has claimed. And today I claim that it was a purely political message to the naughty editors and the naughty journalists that they should not play with the great leaders because they would get more taxes than others. The second thing, when it comes to taxing newspapers, is that we ask ourselves, even journalists in the newsroom, which is the reason for tax cuts in the daily newspaper, if that noble reason that you respected ministers said is to keep their jobs, to help publishers. That's when the reduction first from 23% seems to me or 22% when the former or the one in front of her is the government, but I think it's the same, she's downsized, so now that she's down from 10 to 5%, that's the right decision. However, we can still see that in Croatian print media and daily newspapers journalists are fired and journalists remain the most unprotected brand in Croatia. Now I'm going to come back a little bit, touch the other issues concerning this law, amend the VAT law. Certainly changing taxes from month to month is not a good decision, that one of the biggest obstacles to foreign investors is the fact that we have an insecure tax system. If you look at all the surveys that have been done so far, you will see that it is not what you claim to be the biggest problem in Croatia, the expensive workforce, but it is precisely that we are a legally and tax-unregulated country, and we are an unregulated country because we are changing taxes, as Prime Minister Milanovic said, as underpants. When the rate for catering services was reduced to 10% from 25% to 1%, many experts wondered if you calculated what it meant for the state budget to reduce the rate for large ones, it seemed 60% to me that it was 60%. When the rates were reduced and for some other items, people wondered if you had calculated what it meant for the state budget or if in a few months we would have such scenes in the House as we have today. Then it seems to me that you told me in front of the TV cameras to say that I'm a fool, that the government doesn't know what it does because we made a good move, and that's what we reduced the tax rate. Then you claimed one thing, today you claim the other. But there is one would say illogicality, one rarity. I'm sure you're the only finance minister I've had so far, my colleagues will probably make me right, which is on the list of popularity among the most popular politicians. It's actually one nose, it talks enough about the government, not about you. First, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia love determined politicians, that they love politicians who can speak hard, who you often do not choose words. I personally like that style. And that the people are willing to give up and they're willing to pay more taxes, but only if the government and you as Minister of Finance know what they're doing and if there's some limited time, not for all time. The Republic of Poland is an example of how the Croatian State should work. Poland is that and you yourself know the state that pulled out of the European funds the most money. And how did they do that? A party that was in opposition before joining the EU for 2 years was preparing to come to power and for Poland's entry into the EU. And when she came to power, she brought programs, as the late President Tudjman would say. Remember those patents of Mr. Mudrinić and answer that which patent he brought to Croatia. However, today we hear from you that in the Republic of Croatia membership in the EU costs us. We have heard how much money we will withdraw from the EU funds, so once we draw the line to how much we will be in the positive. If it's 4.6 billion kunas like you just told us now, the cost of how much benefits there will be from joining the EU. Remember when we discussed joining the EU last year when I said don't be fooled that in 1.7.2013, it's like when people are getting ready to celebrate the new year and say now they're going to come to me and they didn't do anything about it. You said you'd cut the VAT rate to catering services because you wanted to raise extra-pansion consumption. You haven't been on the Adriatic, I'm flying the Adriatic and this year after you cut that rate I was alone and in restaurants, drinking and drinking. They were just more expensive, they weren't cheaper. Who did that money go to in his pocket? Is that what you planned? Did you plan on calculating the mentality of the people who do the catering? Or the mentality of us Croats. Is that what you were planning? When you make laws, you probably adapt them to the people you write them for. Therefore, there was neither an analysis nor a reduction in the daily newspaper rate, nor a reduction in the rate of catering services. We are probably the only country in Europe that talks all the time and complains about birth, and does everything to give birth to as few children as possible, to detimise young people to start families and extend the age of the nation. It's increasing VAT to baby food. We have the most expensive baby food. We have the most expensive children's clothes. What's going to happen to this? With this VAT increase to some basic products such as baby food, such as food products no longer borders. People will go shopping again in Hungary, Italy, Slovenia, neighbouring countries and the state register will be filled significantly slower than has been charged so far. Unfortunately, I'm personally in doubt what to do. It is certainly good that you have corrected the mistake, and you have corrected the error of having given you by the Constitutional Court and for not listening, that you have listened to the opposition that has several times interrupted the Assembly's sessions to warn you, not to add to a newspaper. You are all in all the media, especially Croatian broadcasting every day on the front pages, but simply to fight for principles. You've broken those principles. They're fixed now, but they're corrected because the Constitutional Court reacted. All that seems to Zagorci would say to Minister Linic you've been very wronged. In Anic's dictionary, fornication means to wander, to wander, to wander. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58225	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replica set. The first replica of the respected representative Marijan Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58226	Thank you. Col. Vuksic, you said at one point at the beginning that you were actually welcoming the fact that a colleague of Linic, or Minister Linic, came here to repent his sins personally and did not send any envoys, deputies, etc. It seems to me, however, that you've mistaken some things about sin. I'll just quote you the title of one text that came out today in the daily paper on two pages. The title is: "Sanader and HDZ stronger than all thieves in the country." On charges last year, ordinary thieves managed to collect only 670 million kunas in 43502 crimes, and then to list the charges against Sanader for 600 million kunas, HIPO INA MOL 47 million, Fimi-media 70 million, Mountain 26.4 million, HEP Dioki 3.8 million, HAC 30 million. That's 820 million kuna. So all Croatian thieves last year who were otherwise fruitful after the increase in crime failed to catch as much money as one political party did and some famous indictees in Croatia at the moment. So, when you talk about regretting sin, I think you've made a very wrong address at the moment, and that Minister Linic is at this point one of the most popular politicians i.e. The second on that ranking list I assure you is not an accident. You are referring to the people, so you can also appeal to the people in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58227	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58228	Dear colleague Jurevic, I'm sure what you said was true. Today, however, we are not discussing HDZ or Mr Sanader. What Mr. Sanader did if it hadn't done HDZ what he did then HDZ would still be in power. HDZ has lost power, the government has ruled the Kukuriku coalition for almost two years and we are today discussing what moves the current government makes to facilitate the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not to help them live better, but to make it easier for them. Because we're not talking about good life anymore in Croatia. The fact that Sanader is stronger than all the thieves, we know that well, and that it's one big octopus and there's a lot of networked people and there's a lot of current politicians involved in all these machinations. But let the team deal with the police right now, let the courts deal with it, and we here today need to discuss sins under quotes of "sins" so that the current governments don't literally understand. First of all, when measures were taken to reduce VAT on children's food, it was then claimed to be done to help parents to improve population policy, to make children's food cheaper in order to make it easier for young people. But today we see again that it was wrong because children are consumers because you have to feed the child, buy children's food, and now let's raise the VAT to fill the state register. The question is why in two years, it has not been able to move what we need to move, and that is the revenue side, which is certainly the beginning of some kind of beginning of production destroyed. By saying that what's been destroyed for 20 years, it's hard to get on your feet in two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58229	New replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I, of course, agree with what you just said, and I think we need to discuss this proposal, and not, of course, try to distract the political jumpers from the wandering of this government. And you've detected it well, it's about wandering because if there's one thing being said four months ago, and now it's suddenly revealed that we entered the EU like we didn't know four months ago that we were in the EU and we're entering the EU, it's now suddenly revealed that there are some kind of responsibilities as if there were no prior knowledge that there are responsibilities then, of course, it's a reflection of purely wandering and ignorance. However, you have asked one important question, I think you should also get an answer to it. So, the European budget, now adopted by 2020 for Croatia, envisions around 11.7 billion euros. Since we have heard that about 4.6 billion will have to come out that somewhere around a billion euros a year is available to withdraw. If we're gonna be able to pull it or not, that's another thing. And that billion is more than half of the last debt now fresh a few days ago, new debts. So the stories about how the big problem the debts from the old days are just as empty stories because as we can see this government is constantly in debt, here's the fresh one in charge of over 11 billion kuna. Therefore, it should be made clear because the people are constantly serving stories about old debts, and fresh debts as in the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58231	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58232	Well, look, you're right, dear colleague Reiner, in that the prime minister in the opening speech here in the Croatian Parliament said he would not call on the former government. It was one of his key sentences and that sentence was in all the media, the public accepted it, she said here's finally the one power that won't speak you're guilty of what we have today. I mean, you can't justify yourself, but it seems to me why I told you at the beginning of my debate that perhaps I didn't expect Mr. Linic to come to regret his sins because I think Mr. Linic knows what to do. However, as is the real estate tax and as many other moves in the government of the Republic of Croatia, it is evident that Mr Linic is quite lonely in the government and does not support him in his proposals and that I do not believe that he has thought of all this that has been done in the past change in VAT rates. However, as a loyal member of the government, what cannot actually be defended should be defended. It is certain that this government must also be in debt for old debts that should be paid and interest payments should be paid on old debts. The second thing I see is that you are jealous of your colleague Linic, which is more popular than you were as finance minister, the wandering is present, but Minister Linic will explain to us why the government is wandering so much. We'll probably hear more of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58233	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative of Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58234	Dear Representative Vuksic, you have well noticed the lack of investment and it is always someone else's fault, this government is not guilty of anything, it is always for the lack of investment here we hear in recent months that private entrepreneurs are guilty. And now they've come up with this idea of how they're going to attract entrepreneurs, or investment, by changing taxes almost daily. So we could give a big call to investors dear investors come to Croatia because our tax is like a bird on a branch, an hour on the other side. It is a terrible invitation for foreign investors to come to Croatia. You said you didn't calculate repercusions to the state budget reduction of VAT from 25 to 10%. Well, remember, it seems to me that you've been stressing with us what will happen to health when the contribution from 15 to 13% is reduced Listen to what happened today, today the health care in two years has made 4 billion and 200 million kunas of a new debt. They took up the loan, the debt was recovered, and the untruth of not old debts in health but new ones that they made in two years over 4 billion kuna. And of course the excuse is probably to blame for that HDZ and those 4 billion new debts. Remember, we're going to cut our contribution from 15 to 13% that's going to lead to increased employment, so we have 35,000 unemployed today, we're going to stabilize the health system that's disgraced by this government here in this situation giving us a state of health, so here's a job obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58235	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58236	Dear counterpart Milinovic is absolutely certain that all moves made by this government are to blame. She said in Plan 21 she knew how to manage the country, that it would do it better than you, that she could do it best and that she was aware of the situation. I remind you again of Mr. Prime Minister's speech that he said he knew the situation and that he wouldn't blame it, so let's get away from it. Yeah, we've warned that reducing health contributions by 2 index points will cause chaos in health care. Chaos is all-consuming, what happens in Croatian hospitals, it's something scary. Remember then he spoke except for me and Mr Vuljanic, who is now in the Europarlament who said about this speaker, if the burden of reduction by 2 index points of health contributions is to go to one worker to burn in Ban Jelačić Square. What happened? Less and less, we know what the unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia is. Therefore, what has happened should be returned to 15% of the contribution rate and the health situation should be addressed. What you were saying about foreign investors is quite certain that foreign investors will not invest in a country where tax rates change several times a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58237	Dear Representative Josip Boris and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58238	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I believe you're riding Zagreb too, and I'm driving. On one wall I read SDP just raise taxes. It's a fundamental feature of this government over the past two years. This is the same law. They'll say so we don't raise, so we're down from 25 to 10%, so now we're up to 13, but there's a scam. I keep saying 75% of tourism income is the part that is decreasing as early as 1.1.2006, which is the income of accommodation. It was 10%, and then those 25% to those 100 fell now from 25 to 10 which is less important in tourism, these are catering services and there are fewer incomes. But now we're raising everything together from 10 to 13, you know what I mean. So we destroyed the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, that's the basic message of this law, and it's simply a question of why is it done? And what was said when it fell from 25 to 10? The Minister of Tourism said it was the absolute most significant long-term measure of this government. How long did it last? One season. Is that the longest? What does this document have to do with the Tourism Development Strategy until 2020, which we have discussed and adopted here? Everything that's written here is a counter strategy that we adopted. It works 280 million kunas that will be collected in 2014 on the basis of this increase. We'll destroy over a billion-and-a-half kuna investment by tourist companies. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58239	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58240	Mr. Boric, I'm on a tram, I'm walking around Zagreb, and I also saw on a wall that says HDZ=SDP, and you saw that I'm going to show you the wall on which it says, I didn't make it up. The fact that Mr Linic here in the Parliament said that lowering VAT from 25% to 10% on catering services is one of the most significant long-term measures of this government of the Republic of Croatia, says only one thing. The government of the Republic of Croatia has explained to us what long-term long-term is for them. It's long-term for them when they say we'll plan long-term signs for three months. The fact that accommodation, which the accommodation prices are increasing by not 3% but 3 index points will probably explain to us which account they came from that it should be 13% and what those 13% will mean for tourism or what the most honest thing he said at the beginning of his debate, the hole in the state budget is big, it needs to be patched up somewhere, the debts are big, we're in crisis and we're doing what we know, and that's what you said on the wall of the SDP just raises taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58241	Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58242	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here's a respected colleague when you found that Minister Linic was one of the most popular people in the Republic of Croatia then you found that it was nonsensical to make it nonsensical that it was nonsensical for each country. But it's not a nonsens. For what? Because it was in his conduct and in his work that the citizens revealed and realized that this is exactly the person who exposes the fake image that we've all been dragged into, the fake picture of the financials and the entire state of the nation that's been worth a long time, they want to make it impossible for the frauds of all the progenitors and, in all of that, they don't complain and offer hopelessness but for one new hope. And precisely because she had long reigned a lie in Croatia it was also possible to do all these robberies that were exposed to our courts. That's why you're meeting the truth, meeting Mr. Linic every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58243	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58244	Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović, so this may be an indication that Mr Linic is among the most popular people in the Republic of Croatia and that he is the least bad in the government, not that he is extremely good. However, Mr Linic is certainly among the most popular persons in the Republic of Croatia because he also opposes our Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. And it certainly contributed. Because they see that someone in the government still has his own self, his own word, and he's doing what's supposed to be done. The fact that Mr. Linic is a man of flesh and blood and sin, that is certainly not to be argued or challenged. They're mostly, you know what they say in the people when they want to offend someone or... You're as ugly as a tax book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're certainly tax collectors, not favorites, not in any country, not in the country where it goes very well. That's why I said that Mr. Linic is probably also in European terms, a man who says things to the people in person every night. And they say, look, this man probably knows what he's doing. But what he's doing now, what we've been doing in a few months isn't good. Is that what Mr. Linic was doing under the pressure of the government and Prime Minister Milanovic to touch on the craftsmen, the caterers or anyone else, we don't know. Probably like I said he'll explain it to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58245	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you said in your statement that journalists are the most unprotected brand in Croatia, probably considering this VAT increase. And I'm going to say that I can't agree with you because it's very difficult for me to tell which group of citizens at this time in Croatia is the most unprotected. So, I didn't say that journalists aren't unprotected, but they can't, they can't possibly tell which ones are more protected than them. Are these peasants, are they craftsmen, are they teachers, I don't know, I think they're all the most unprotected. At the very least, citizens are the most unprotected. And somehow when you're still getting all this together and watching, thinking about that finding of yours, it seems to me that right now maybe the most unprotected peasants are. Because at some point, a journalist can write something, he can make a statement, he can say something, a peasant as a food producer who gets hit twice and as a manufacturer, so he can't produce, he can't sell. And the other part as a buyer when he buys can't even buy a newspaper because at that time when he's looking he has to buy bread, he can't buy a newspaper. So in any case, I wouldn't accept that fact and finding that journalists are the most unprotected but definitely citizens, all of them, especially peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58247	The reply to the replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58248	Dear counterpart Hrg will probably agree that journalists are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You said the most unprotected compared to VAT. That's not what I'm talking about, that's a brand where otherwise there's less journalism that you know, it's more and more in the paper of ordered texts. There are more and more journalists who need to choose between firing and their own self, between firing and their opinions. When I was talking about VAT, I was talking about the fact that the former government reduced VAT by 22% or 23% I don't remember 10% and that it wasn't, and it reduced it precisely to help the journalist's brand, the publishers. But what happened after that? After that, journalists received mass layoffs. And their employers relaxed in construction work. They became big entrepreneurs, they build buildings, they invest in other jobs. That's what I'm talking about. I agree with you, you should weigh who's unprotected. You must know that almost half of the journalists are on the labour market. That journalists no longer have a chance to get a contract on indefinite working hours, an indefinite contract. All contracts are for a few months, all contracts are in effect, that's what I'm talking about. It is absolutely certain that journalists themselves are guilty of doing so because they can organize themselves as I recently said on the round table, can shut down programs, can not issue newspapers and make sure that they are fully exploited by owners. That's what I was talking about because it wasn't all the trouble she had with VAT, it was the attitude of employers to journalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58249	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, five minutes, the respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58250	Thank you, Mr. President. Short notice on the club's exposure. To say that the tax system is the one that rejects entrepreneurs, then I wonder if we've read the analysis of the World Bank Doing business where we don't have a very good place but look at the analysis of the tax system. 34 places, far better, okay, but we're talking, Mr. Shucker, you want to take a pay phone. Therefore, it is evident that the tax system is not an obstacle to the entry of foreign investors and that these are incorrect findings that there are so that the club tries to say that we do not have a stable tax system in Croatia. We have it over a longer period of time. And by the way, with all the changes introduced by the coalition government, we also have the increased efficiency of tax collection, the reduced gray zone. Yes, these are a series of changes that we had in 2012 and implemented in 2013 and through amendments to the Tax Administration Act, the General Tax Law and the Fiscalisation Act. Simply increased..., eliminated what's called an unfair game. A good part, not completely. It is therefore the tax system that attracts investors. We're in a good position to observe the World Bank's analysis, we're in a good place. Likewise, when we look at the competitiveness of the tax system in the European Union, we are neither at the beginning nor at the beginning, which means that the tax system is not an obstacle to investing in the Republic of Croatia. These are facts, you can have different thoughts but these are neither the figures nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia, these are neutral analyses. Therefore, we will be satisfied when the other criteria that are in some way an obstacle to a more quality place on the rank list do bussiness are what the tax system is. And I also have to intervene when you're talking about two different things because if you're talking about the cost of Croatia, and the cost of Croatia is 3.7 billion contributions to the budget, that's the cost, we expect to withdraw more than 4 billion and plans, and in the budget they've set at over 4 billion, which means that it would still be a country that more withdraws funds from the European Union, but it has nothing to do with our deficits. The cost of the European Union is over 4.6 billion. Why, because 1.8 billion will be more for the 2014 budget than we had this year and our co-financing projects are expenditures that we didn't cover with taxes, so they're the cause of the deficit. So there's one story about the deficit in the state budget because we have to finance projects somewhere from 15 and up to 50%. True, it may raise the rate of economic growth or mitigate the fall, however you wish, but these are deficits in our budget because the money we did not achieve it because there is no economic activity. Therefore, two concepts are what our relationship with the European Union means by pay and return, which means our deficit and how much we actually have an increase on the expenditure side in 2014 compared to 2013. And it's always harder what this government has done in the last two years. You see, 1.5% of us have given up income in our budget for the benefit of the economy, but the false thesis that we have less money in health care. It's totally wrong thesis. Health is not only funded by contributions but also by revenue from the budget, as well as pensions are financed from contributions from the budget, but it is essential that we reduced consumption and that health care did not fit into that consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58251	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. Dear Branko Vuksic, MP, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58252	Dear Minister Linic, I'll start at the end. So what's wrong with health care? Health is run by this government. It is necessary to drive a tram to know how public transport in the city of Zagreb works, so you should also know the situation in hospitals, be in hospitals, visit hospitals, see and talk to people who are there and ask them how they feel in these hospitals. That there are no doctors, staff that are one of the best doctors in Europe, and this is seen by the progress of medicine in Croatia. The system is therefore not in force, and the system is not covered by doctors, but by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I believe. I will photocopy at least 10 texts in which the party, meaning foreign not our analysts, economic analysts are talking about Croatia being an uncertain country and because of the tax system and I will deliver it to you at the address. So not me as a layman, but just reading their analysis, and these few analyses have been in the last year and the clarifications why they don't invest. And the question when it's all good, Croatia doesn't invest, which is why it doesn't invest in Croatia, and all the time you're criticizing the way the government means your government, the way it prepares the ground for foreign investment, and foreign investment has never been less than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58253	Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58254	Yes, I'd be happy to take a look at your texts, Mr. Representative. I believe the dates will change a little, that it will be from earlier. The basic remarks on the work of the IRS were uncertainty regarding the IRS because they were different approaches due to political interventions. All of this is being eliminated, so it seems to me that today and tomorrow you'll be discussing a new Tax Administration Act where it simply eliminates the possibility of politics affecting the IRS in that part of how much someone will sanction and how much someone will not sanction. At the same time, the laws on amendments to the General Tax Law and also on fiscalization, we eliminated unfair competition because the problem was precisely that, because of the tax administration's unfair match, all those who paid the tax fairly distanced in Croatia. In two years, very much done. You can read that in both the IMF and the European Commission. So I'd be happy to look at your articles because he's not talking about the work of this government. He's talking about how it used to be because of an unfair game that is now getting smaller and smaller and that in the coming years changes in the Tax Administration will be less and less and will be far more responsible. And as for the hospital system, yes, that's why the government has decided that all hospitals are going to rehab and that many of the activities have not yet been taken seriously. Why? Well, for the simple reason because obviously the biggest problem is the number of hospitals, the number of irrational suits, the number of doctors who have been working for 500 hours, which is impossible because they're on some kind of alert, in some kind of duty just for the sake of poor hospital organizations. Master plan of hospitals will be implemented in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58255	Thank you, Minister. The new replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58256	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Linic, don't worry too much about criticism from the HDZ and the replica of Mr. Milinovic. More money has been taken from Croatian citizens' pockets than has been withdrawn from EU pre-accession funds. Yeah, that's a fact that needs to be made clear here because of Croatian citizens, those who are watching us right now. Proceed in this direction and we can only expect to improve this country after 8 years of devasting these menus from the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58257	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58258	Yes, it was here in the debate that the prime minister promised. Prime Minister yes, Slavko Linic is trying to run the Ministry of Finance and I am part of the government of the Republic of Croatia who knows how to solve problems. And it's not easy to solve. But there is no way that Slavko Linic will not talk about how responsible the predecessors are because they did not resuscitate the health care but left 6 billion kunas, did not resuscitate the shipbuilding, but left 9 billion and completely unsettled shipbuilding. Because they paid salaries from the budget in the Croatian railways and did not restructure them, because they did so for a number of other public companies. Yeah, there's no way I'm not gonna mention it because it's a job that every government has to do. We'll do it, but there's no way I'm not gonna mention whose burden they're falling on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58259	Thank you very much, Minister. A new replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58260	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, you often mention doing a bussiness report when it suits you. Well, look back 10 years like I threw you. The IRS has always been well-ranked here, and that's contrary to what you're saying. Because if it suits you at this point that the IRS is so positioned, then what are those people doing the same job for the last 10 years who have not been blind? Very interesting, without an increase in taxes, annual revenues in the budget rise 11%. It's incompetence. And with a huge increase in taxes, incomes fall. That's the ability. And there's no political pressure. Comrade Linic, remember here in this assembly what happened when you tried to charge taxes to Croatian television that you have established, your Government. When you tried to charge yourself, then here you said it was pressure, not you, but your colleagues, that it was pressure on the media, that HDZ wanted to force HTV to say what they wanted. And it just tried to do what the IRS business is, to collect what needs to be charged. The debt your government established, so the ministry while you were at it. And it's not good to tell my colleague Linic that people who do their job fairly, in grain there are every weed, that they've been working on a political line, because then there's a story that can open up to the unconsciousness and that's not good because of the institution you're headed on. If you can't handle some things, don't go critical, 'cause I said it once. If you are referring to the World Bank there on your desk if you don't mind, if you haven't thrown it away by a Plexi, inside a nicely carved contour of the Republic of Croatia and writes a top ten reformer for 2008. That's what somebody got. Well, he didn't get it because someone loves him on Wall Street and at the World Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58261	Thank you very much. New replica, Honored Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58262	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you mentioned at the end of your now-exposure of the fact that we will have to pay 4.6 billion kuna for the EU and that is something that is familiar. We warned here when it was the current clock, but there's no answer. There is, very often, guilt shifts while HDZ was in power then to those 4 years of SDP authorities, now that the SDP is at 8 years of HDZ authorities. But we will not be able to escape the responsibility that, for the fact that if it happens to us, the EU's membership fee will be greater than what we will withdraw, it will not be the HDZ government's fault from the previous years, but this current government. And we have the fact that we will not, that we are not prepared to withdraw funds from EU funds because we do not have a key thing. We don't have strategic documents. And we don't have to run from not having a Regional Development Strategy, that's why we don't have operational programmes, and when we don't have that we can't call the competitions, and when we don't call the competitions, then we also have in vain projects that we invest at the level of municipalities and at the level of cities and counties. And it's not the fault of the local self-government units, it's the unit, so it's the central one, the central government. And that we are using it this year and that next year we will be using EU funds, but not the one for which we pay the membership fee, but the one free that we continued until we were members. It's a period of funds, so pre-accession funds. They were free of charge, and now we're paying membership fees to spend, practically justifying what was free of us. And that we won't, that we'll come into a situation where there's a danger that we almost withdraw minimal or maybe none of the funds that for...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58263	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister Slavko Linic's reply....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58264	I see a lot of people are chasing numbers, so I'm going to be a little clearer once more. Our commitment next year to the EU budget is 3.7 billion kuna. That's what we're going to pay in Europe, and we expect a return from the funds of more than 4 billion kunas. So budget projections say we will have a surplus in exchange with the EU. There's something else, and these are deficits in the budget, and there's 4.6 billion. Why? Because we increase by 1.8 billion kuna more contribution than in 2013 because 1.8 is by half a year and another 1.8. So it's a bigger expense. And also for those 4 billion we're going to withdraw, we need to secure our own co-financing. The cost of its own co-financing is enormous, slightly less than 2 billion. So when you add each other up or a little more than 2 billion, you get to 4.6 major expenditures in the state budget. And there's one expenditure in the state budget that we should cover with revenue, so that's why we're changing the rate because there's bigger expenditure on the state budget. But it's not a relationship with the EU, it's different numbers than what we have to provide. Every kuna we withdraw from European funds must be given by the Croatian State from 15 and even over 50% co-financing. It would be easy if we had revenue in the budget because then we wouldn't be deficits, so unfortunately, they're deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58265	Thank you very much. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58266	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, obviously, this debate will actually go from being in other waters, so I'll start by saying, since all these days you're reading the 2014 Budget and breaking that big name, which is a public debt, which is a public debt recovery, so right on page one, you have income, expenses and funding. So what's not covered by income is going to be financed from borrowing. And that's the amount that increases public debt. The story of her coming back, of borrowing to pay back the old debt is simply a farce and a lie. Why? Look at the State Budget Act, so in one article, now I don't know exactly which one, writing you the need for a debt that's far, far greater than that amount that's the difference between income and expenditure. These funds refinance old debts. So they're not coming back, they're staying. The only thing that remains, unfortunately, is the interest paid on these refinanced loans. So much for that public debt story. Also colleagues and colleagues this Parliament adopted these budgets, did not adopt it, I mean, of course, the political majority that was in power, and can be calculated every year how many years the budget was down, how many extra budget users were, how many Croatian highways were, and simply see how much public debt grew in those years. Also see how many years the government has received from privatisation and thus financed the deficit. And that's clear math for you. You don't need to work out a great science, it's very simple and can be read. And then you can't say this is this much, I'm not that much. It is clear if you look at fiscal projections and look at the deficit last year if there is no privatisation income only with the basis of the government budget deficit public debt will increase by more than 60 billion in 4 years of this government. So it's according to the document made by this government. But that's where I'm gonna end up, and I'm not gonna do anything anymore. I would also like to say that it is not good to throw on interest rates because this country had historically low, historically high interest rates and interest rates that are now due to some other things. So I'm saying, I don't want to talk about it. And I'd like to go back to this topic and discuss it exclusively. Mr. Minister, given your announcement, I believe that when you proposed tax changes, you should have made a tax reform in the package. You didn't do it and there was chaos on the revenue side of the budget. And that chaos, unfortunately, I caricate chaos, with constant changes in tax laws only increases even more and at this point it is simply impossible to make an assessment of how much revenue there will be from a certain tax change. So if you look at the Fiscal Responsibility Act, one of the key things that's mentioned inside is that whoever proposes tax laws among other things should make an assessment and assess whether or not it's taxes that will increase the revenues of a state budget or taxes that make certain concessions because when you give a certain tax a relief, it's in some way not directly but in some indirect way the cost of the budget. Because if you hadn't made that relief, that revenue would have come into the budget and it would have been a bigger income. So, if we'd done that kind of analysis and evaluations, we probably wouldn't have seen things like this happen to us. But I say, unfortunately, what happens happens happens and then the whole debate turns into political waters, and the tax is ultimately paid by Croatian citizens. And what is crucial regardless of the tax administration and the work of the complete Ministry of Finance has been evaluated for many years by all the best of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And there is no need to do a business report or Competitiveness Council when talking about the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia you when you look at tax rates and tax policy are somewhere in the middle. The logical thing would be if entrepreneurs were doing something to attack exactly the taxes. But if it's in the middle then it's proof that the quality of the job is purely satisfying that it can always be better, but it can be worse. But colleagues and colleagues what is proposed by this law? So one very interesting thing, when it is proposed that hospitality is not tourism, is tourism is reduced to 1.1.2006. from 22 to 10%, and to remind you because it is a constant notion of a mustache and it is the largest part of tourism income, so if someone paid for the package of arrangements, so with accommodation and food taxed with a 10% rate and thus definitely helped tourism it is undeniable, even if the investment cycle that was necessary to make tourist seasons are what they are today. Take a look at the state of certain hotels and hotel houses in 2006, see what it is like today, so at 12% reduction in the rate they made certain investment cycles that led to Croatia having results of what kind of name. What I'm going to say here openly is that the pressure to reduce the rate of hospitality to a 10% rate has always been very strong. Personally, I never wanted to talk about it at all for a million and one reason because in a situation where you have a problem with the deficit of the state budget, you can't afford a luxury that for something that will in principle not increase or decrease significantly, reduce revenues to the state budget by more than 2 billion kuna. But colleagues and colleagues, what's going on in this bill? I've been listening here and the stories that you need to reduce the rate actually to a zero rate of baby food, kids' shoes all sorts of things that should be a zero rate. Explaining the EU directives that this can't be a zero rate but that there may be some kind of interplay that we'll think about some things at a time when zero rates will have to be abolished and raised to 5%... an effect of around 2 billion kuna and that these 2 billion kunas should be translated into a reduction in the basic rate of value added tax to what the assessment is given at that point most. But today it's very interesting more than 10% rate in catering is not a sanctity is not something that will be the generator of tourism development because look colleagues and colleagues 3% doesn't sound much but a real increase between rates is 30%, 3 percentage points 30%. My colleagues and colleagues, a hotel company that has a turnover of 50 million kuna gross, is about a million, 300 million kunas more to pay the value added tax. Look at the hotel house balance sheets so you'll see that these million 300, million 400 are no more significant story. VAT in catering, what used to be paid for 400 thousand kuna traffic today is paid for a million kuna traffic. That's the result of this law. And as we were against back then, we don't want to be hypocrites today and talk like that and today we say it's something we shouldn't have done. See also what is edible oil, plant fat, and animal origin. Be sure that traders put this 3 percentage points or 30% increase in VAT rates on themselves rather than charge it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Children's food processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children. Now, colleagues and colleagues, risking to be attacked by those whose rate goes to 5% if newspapers can go to 5%, would be a logical thing that both baby food and baby food are also taxed by 5%. I don't think there are any more valuable and sacred things in this country than children. Well, then, if he can do one thing, he can do the other. Because looking down from 22 to 10% was about 300 million kuna, if you're going to do that analogy reduction from 13 to 5% is somewhere around 200 and another million kuna. You can't do a calculation here if you have to have such a calculation that we can discuss because none of us have access to tax accounting. Delivery of water other than water placed on the market in bottles and other packaging. Now look, the supply of water is what we spend every day in the household with those imposed and water priced, for sure that municipal companies that are more or less in problems or close to problems will have to raise the price but it will not be responsible for someone like this but will be responsible for the heads of the local self-government unit. Again in the pocket of Croatian citizens. White cane and sugar beet sugar which is placed on the market in crystal form. Also in the pocket of Croatian citizens. Tickets for concerts, magazines, culture and art. And as for the media, I would like to say something and propose at least to my colleagues from the opposition clubs, here I spoke to a colleague from the HDSSB that we representatives of the opposition clubs give a joint amendment if it can go for these media, that and HINA who is the state agency to be together,... I talked to a colleague from the HDSSB and that's a common idea. I hope that laborers and minorities will join that and that we are going with such an amendment I think it is an interest to all because I would not want it to turn out now that HDZ has stolen someone's idea but I want to say that this is a common idea, so HINA has 5% of the same interest as these other media and also colleagues and colleagues I believe that this category of 5% must enter the local media. Local media are the only source of information for most Croatian citizens in local areas. And if we're talking about it then, Mr. Minister, it's not big money. Because of a few million kunas because if I'm not mistaken, HINA's budget is about 8, 8.5, 9 million kunas from the Ministry of Culture 10. Therefore, this is not about some horrible big money but to someone with little and little money means a lot to him, it means far more to him than to him who has a lot. Therefore, here will be the amendment and I sincerely hope that you will adopt it. And now look, I don't want to say that someone tells me to politicize, but I like to always look at the budget in fullness and I like to watch its effects. And now that I'm looking at this catering rate from 25 to 10% and I'm looking at a reduction in the state's agricultural budget. Then I can't help thinking that the government may have unwittingly taken money from Croatian peasants and gave it to wealthy Austrian, Italian, Slovenian, German and other tourists who came to the Republic of Croatia. It's something that's simply being framed. Because look, Croats with their standard, most of them, unfortunately very little visit the catering facilities and eat very little in them, if they eat, eat in those who are cheaper. So, colleagues and colleagues that's what bothers us at the club that we're not politically discussing it confirms our debate when this law is passed. Also today, these are other technical changes although I think Mr. Minister that this with these diplomatic representations I think we should use the experiences of other countries. I think simply that people in diplomatic representations who have the right to buy without tax should get some kind of card whether or not you or from customs, and based on that when you buy goods, solve it because this is the kind of billing that can happen. For behold, not all who sell us kindness and honesty, neither are they all more dishonest; among them there are those who desire to commit tax fraud. And finally to conclude. Tax changes especially radical should not occur very often. And they send one wrong message, they send a message of tax uncertainty. Look, colleagues and colleagues, 10 days ago, there was a big tourist fair in London. Those who ordered me to say it or how they like to say some booked services in the Republic of Croatia do not know which VAT it will be on. But it doesn't matter if you sell the room, like, I'm talking 100 kuna by heart and counting 10% or 13% of taxes on it. It doesn't matter if you give 10 or 13 kuna overnight, i.e. You'll give 3 kunas more. Therefore, such tax changes, in particular when it comes to certain activities, must simply be made before decisions are made on prices in tourism. And you know very well that in Croatian tourism prices are already formed in almost nine months, and then all those who have something to offer from Croatia as from around the world come out on the world market. If they don't know at which rate they'll be taxed, it's very difficult. Because I repeat, the rate does not rise 3% but 30%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58267	Thank you, Your Honor. We have an entire length of replicas. Yeah, length, 12. Yeah. ... There's ten of them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We've got a line. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58268	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so, Your Honor, first of all, I think it's a good idea that you once again made it clear that new debts are not due back to old debts, but new debts are created which will be paid by the second, the next government that we know will not be the government of the Kukurik coalition. What was very interesting was earlier to hear, various new obvious economic theories. Let's just say that long-term planning is 3 to 4 months, that higher taxes are a new hope for Croatia, etc. We've heard various, very interesting things before you also. A few months ago, we had a chance here to hear that health debt is 4 billion. Today, the Honorable Minister said they were 6 billion. We'll probably hear in two, three months that they were eight billion and so on, right? However, in any case, I would go back to what you said and it is crucial that an unequivocal increase of 30% will be made, and that is what citizens will pay for children's food, we swear that children are the future of Croatia, etc., for a number of food products, for water water, because we are talking about it, is simply significantly more expensive and that this tax will be paid by Croatian citizens. I will not mention the concerts of culture and art at all because it seems that it has already given up in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58269	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58270	Col. Reiner, at the moment when Croatia was forced to enter the European Union, in fact to abolish a zero rate on what the zero rate was abolished is estimated to be around 2 billion kuna after a year. The logical thing was to think then to form a product group that is important to the Croatian population and that will be recognizable to anyone who sees why it is taxed with 5%. It was logical for me, too, if there was bread and milk that children's food and baby food went in there. Priority. Neither does anyone mind if the media are in the situation in which they are and I think it is primarily important for Croatian citizens to have true and just information that they, too, are helped to remain on the market. But is this help because of something else, I leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to assess. And as for public debt, we can go, I said, we can go from what year, anyone can talk about what it is. However, colleagues, there is no need to sell anyone's brains, each year when the budget is adopted, it tells you exactly how many states will have to be in debt to cover the budget's minus. The same amount that will have to be owed on top of that to refinance certain commitments that are coming. And the only thing that grows as a cost is interest. And interest increases by the amount of public debt you have raised because of the deficit and how much more favourable or unfavorable you are in relation to the loan you are reprogramming. And that's all true. And talk 200 billion, so we can see three years ago and that public debt was 140 and something else billion. But if you look at budget projections and next year it's predicted that the deficit is 18 billion and 15 billion, so that's 33 billion increase in public debt if something is sold and these are facts and I don't just want to attack or speak. It's just the situation in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58271	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boris and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58272	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Schuer, Albert Einstein has defined stupidity as repeating the same procedures in the expectation that we'll get a different result. I feel like it's with this law. We repeat several times amending this law in the hope that we will get different results, but they are mostly the same. A fall in income, incompetence, reduced consumption, and simple stories that are made up not to say what we want but to warn of another authority that has failed. That's how he talks about public debt. The public debt at the end of 2014 will amount to 215 billion kuna, as they told us on the board. Compared to what was inherited it is 61 billion kuna more in three years, on average 20 billion kuna a year. There, the SDP surpassed its 200-2004 government. These are facts, figures that are again justified by some other governments' bad actions. With a 13% VAT on catering, i.e. tourism in total, the SDP assumes responsibility, but also the label that they will be free to say about them and their government this four years that gravediggers are Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58273	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58274	That's right, fellow Boric. Look, in 2003, a budget of 80 billion, a deficit of 15 billion, and now that you compare it a little bit, then someone tells you that the deficit was 4.9. Eventually, 6.2, however, if we continued to discuss this, we would not have reached the 0.8% deficit in 2008. But I repeat, we can talk about each other here, don't forget your colleagues and colleagues that at different times in this House of High House, we've raised our hands for certain documents. These documents show how much we are in favour, how much we have decided to increase the public debt of the Republic of Croatia that year. Because at the moment we voted the budget we voted the budget to the Government of the Republic of Croatia i.e. The Ministry of Finance must pay so much and so much to finance all the expenditures that we have voted in the budget. That's true. And we don't need Mr. Linic or I or my colleague Dalic to convince us what happened at any time. Methodology is one of these, one of those, but ultimately we have to pay for it. And that shipbuilding, it can enter the deficit in 2011, but it will return for the next few years as loans come in, unfortunately it will probably have to be reprogrammed because it cannot return until you have a surplus of the state budget and that is the only truth. With these accusations, unfortunately we will not find the right way to fiscal consolidation of the Republic of Croatia. However, as the budget rebalance shows this year and the draft budget for next year, it is unfortunately not a fiscal consolidation that has been assured us all along. It's just facts. And I'm saying, 15 billion per 80 billion budget is almost 20% of the original income.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58275	Dear Representative Frano Matušić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58276	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you have rightly warned that the increase in tax rates from 10% to 13% is actually very dangerous for the hotel industry. In fact, this 30% increase will significantly burden the business of the hotel industry and in some ways question the results and the next season. Why, because contracts like you said are already signed for next season. They're already signed. This means that the 30 percent tax increase burden will actually be borne by hotel owners, those who work in the hotel industry. And let's not forget, it's a low-accumulated branch, unfortunately it's the only healthy branch in the Republic of Croatia that brings income and in which investments are realised. Also, let us not forget that the biggest investments in this sector, therefore in the hotel sector, were invested in the renovation of the hotel or the construction of new hotels. Therefore, it is truly amazing that this government, by increasing from 30% of the rate, is actually jeopardizing work, endangering the activity that is most healthy in the Republic of Croatia. Also, there have been talks here on the World Bank analyses, but I will read an analysis of the 15-hour-old European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, not 15 days, but 15 hours, which clearly says that the Croatian economy will experience a decline of 0.8% this year, although tomorrow, in a few days, we will receive a projection on our tables that the Croatian economy will grow by 0.2%. But the EBRD clearly says the economy will fall 0.8% but this is not interested in Minister Linic, of course, and he is not interested in the prognosis forecasted by the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, which says the prospects for the recovery of the Croatian economy are quite dreary. Those are their words. So this information is 15 hours old, this information is from yesterday. So it's quite clear that obviously this government isn't listening...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58277	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58278	Look, colleague Matušić, so all the time we've been hearing about the economy being disbursed by 2% of the health contribution. Now let's pull the parallel for the tourism sector. One hotel that employs 100 people and makes traffic, let's say 40-50 million kuna, with this rate of VAT increase, the tax obligation will grow somewhere by a million and 200-300 thousand kuna. And you know how much less he'll pay for a health contribution? A few hundred thousand kunas. And how much does he lose? And all of this happens at times when they have already formed prices and have come out with these prices with their offer on the world market. So that's something that it is. The other thing, who's to blame, is actually telling me honestly, it's not a clear move from this government. If he's sending now a budget rebalance with economic growth of 0.2%, if everyone's both domestic and foreign and dependent and independent, dependent, subdependent experts say it's going to be 0.8%, so use it and say here they all say it's going to be such a fall and we're going to put it on. Here's the budget rebalance, practically stayed until the end of the year, and you're dealing with some kind of burden. After all, you have one more real, more plastic basis for planning your income. And secondly, it's far easier for you to plan next year. But this way, if these 0.2 don't come true, let's make it -0.1, 0.2 again, it's the subject of political bickering. So I'm saying, I just don't understand why some things are stubbornly insisted on them. Last year, we ended up with a stubborn insistence that we'd have economic growth of 1.7, 1.8, and then we realized at the end of the year that it wouldn't be that way. In the end, it turned out to be drastically worse and nothing to anyone. And look, tax revenues tax policies are, among other things, in the environment after all, those who have achieved negative economic growth or they pay positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58279	Thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58280	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, in your presentation you spoke part of both the budget and the deficit for next year. So here I would like to ask you to explain how Minister Linic says the deficit of the state budget for next year in the section relating to the financing of projects to be financed by the European Commission will increase by more than 2 billion. That's not true. This would be true if the Government maintained in 2012 and 2013 the level of expenditure of non-financial assets at the same level, i.e. when it did not reduce the capital investments financed from the state budget. But in 2012 and 2013, 35% of the investment from the state budget was reduced, and therefore, in the part relating to expenditure on non-financial assets, these are significant assets. If the government had not reduced so much significant expenditure on non-financial assets, then expenditure that will finance projects that will be financed from the European budget by the year would be exactly what the minister says. But when you reduce investment expenditure on one hand in such a way that every third investment in the Republic of Croatia that is financed from the state budget is reduced from 2011 then this information and the quote made by Minister Linic is not correct, it is not true. If in 2013 we had kept the level of investment in the investment of the state budget the same as in 2011 or 12 years then this assumption would have been correct. But on the one hand, cut the expenditure on non-financial assets by 35%, and then you claim that the deficit will increase next year because you will need to secure funds for investments to be financed from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58281	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58282	My colleague Bačić, if you read the 2011 budget, the 2012 budget and the rebalancing 2013 and the 2014 draft budget, you will see that fiscal consolidation actually took place on capital investments. I'll give you an example. That's why my school in Gorica, Novi Čič, has been exactly the same for two years, and maybe in a few million, it could end and poor children wouldn't have to ride buses. That's the example. For a few million why? The funds have been cut off. There's no reason it shouldn't end. And if that was left so likely this 0.2 might be more real in one part. It's the same when we talk about incentives. Look, I've been listening here for seven years to talk about how little we spend on HH. When we gave 2 billion and 900 wasn't enough, tear down the system, you need to extract 60 limes from the fuel and finance the railways in that way. And now watch. Now the railroads have fallen to a billion and 400, and that's wonderful and wonderful. Yes, but the railways received 2 and a half billion state guarantees, which even the sparrows on the branch know will return them from the state budget because Croatian railways will not be able to return them. And now look, at one point when it can't be returned for three years, the guarantee will be protested for three years under EUROSTAT's rules will fall into the deficit, and then another minister will yell again and shout that this previous one has left him two and a half billion deficits as well as that debt for those tilting trains a billion and so many kunas since 2003. But that's the life of the finance minister, I suppose. Every one of them screams that the last one left him something, and unfortunately they both tried to do something, but they didn't have the support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58283	Now I remember that play by Joseph Pejakovic "O's Lives". Fifth replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58284	Dear fellow Shuker, I may now in some way try you from HDZ and defend you. I think you've come this far that even I have to do it. Yes, I will, because I understand when you leave the country in a mess, when you can't rule. I understand that. I understand that you did not know how to help, for example, the citizens who were in charge of the Swiss francs. And I understand that. You didn't know because you didn't want to. And I can understand that. But I can't understand when you're working against yourself what you've been doing in your discussions and what you've been doing in the last few days. Although the debate is about VAT you started on deficit and debt. Don't do this! It's no good for you! Two, three days ago in Vukovar you wanted to harm the state summit, legally elected representatives participating in the script, wanting to humiliate or embarrass those who were legally elected. I don't know who ended up being humiliated or embarrassed. He who has cheeks would surely be ashamed if he were you. Don't do this! I have to defend you. Don't start a discussion about the deficit and debt VAT because don't do that because you're hurting yourself. Because you're the ones who left the biggest debt. In the last three years of your reign, you have entrusted this country with 64 billion per EUROSTAT method I hope you accept. ... Yeah, he's lying to Europe, stop REUTERS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you did. And you're talking about it now. Therefore, we are trying to introduce order. We made a tax order. We're reducing the debt, by this methodology or by that methodology of debt in 2012 compared to your last year is 10 billion less debt that we've done. Therefore, do not say what does not fit. Here I am, as a political opponent, I must say, we still care that we have a worthy opponent. Don't make you completely unworthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58285	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58286	Well, to be honest, the biggest thing is... When Jelusic feels sorry for you, but especially when he doesn't understand things, I have to teach him all the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A man can't read. Read the 2009 budget, 2010 and 2011 budget, and you will see that your deficit is around 45, not 64 billion, and look at 2012, 2013, so you will see that it is 50 billion. So that's what we're talking about. And as for Vukovar, in Vukovar, the people turned their backs on you, and I just don't want to comment on it anymore. You can say whatever you want but you'll never run away from the numbers and I'll never be ashamed of what happened. And what was good and what was bad. And what I only admit in political debates are figures. And if this High House has adopted some kind of budget, no matter who raised an arm for it, and if it says inside how much funding is being financed in the financing account, it is an increase in the deficit of counterpart Jelusic. But if you sell Croatia insurance, you sell Postanska Banka and you get a written 200m, 300m euros, and then you will have a lower debt requirement for the 200m, 300m euros, so for that amount, you will grow less public debt. But what we here as people who have chosen would simply have to understand as long as we have the deficit of the state budget, as long as we have disproportionately from what we can count what we spend on public debt growth. So we can argue, my colleague Jelusic's 2008 deficit before the crisis was 2 billion and 800 million kuna and I am extremely proud of it, but that's why I got a certain reward. So, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58287	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go. Give it to him. Give it to him for two minutes. [[Intruder Jelusic: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58288	Thank you very much. You spoke of pressures coming from different sectors to lower VAT, so there is no segment of society from which there is no pressure to reduce VAT and there is no one who says he does not need to reduce VAT. But any economic measure must be the result of a thorough analysis that requires something to be done and must be focused on clearly set objectives. But an irrational act such as the reduction of VAT in the tourism sector, i.e. in catering, cannot be justified by mantra aid to the economy. Because if you want to help the economy, then you have to help both agriculture and the processing industry and the construction industry and the wood industry because the greater the decline in unemployment is in the building than in the catering or the newspapers. So when you said you didn't need to cut the VAT, I don't agree with you, you shouldn't have done that. That's a big difference. And when it comes to the ratio of tax burden, there should be both economic justification and economic logic, but also reason. And I understand that newspapers should have a low VAT rate but I can't possibly understand that they're more important to this society than children's food. I can't understand that it's more important than water, than energy, that it's more important than HINA. Because HINA's opening the market means opening the liquidation process over HINA. But it's not a good policy for this government to open unnecessary agencies and shut down agencies of national interest like HINA. And this procedure towards HINA and the treatment of HINA and the reduction of HINA budget means the liquidation of HINA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58289	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a result, I did in my opening part on behalf of the club say that major tax reforms, actually tax changes should be made in the package. Here's why. I don't understand why a special text message tax was lifted. Just because someone promised to invest in it. That was about 350, 400 million. So we've abolished those who show a profit of about 3.5 billion kuna a year. What about who? At the expense of children, at the expense of Croatian citizens who pay water, at the expense of the industry for which we all boasted that it was a great and successful season. Then the basic question is whether the basic principle of politics, tax policy and equality in taxation is fulfilled? It's not. Because look, those who show 3.5, 4 billion kuna get whether they get to pay 100 or 150 million or 200 million more with the basic text message won't feel anything. It's the same thing he says he loves the people as if a mosquito sat on his ear with an elephant, this one doesn't even feel it. I wouldn't want to offend anyone without someone pulling back, but it looks like a cartoon to you. But these 30% increase in value added tax will be very much felt by Croatian children and their parents through these other water and everything, and they will certainly feel the employees and those who are engaged in tourist activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58291	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Tomislav Zhagar and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58292	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague Shuker, so here's the thing about this replica, I've been offered, even though you often do it, I've noticed that when we talk about many bill proposals, you say that we should avoid politics and talk with arguments. And on the replica, I was offered the word chaos that you used, and the truth was a little bit corrected, so you said that you mentioned the word chaos in the income structure, so in that sense I wanted to give you a logical replica like this. The structure of tax revenues according to tax forms is different in many countries, but it is in a time series and changing. This is often done in order to maintain the characteristics of a good tax system which is a betrayal, so to cover public expenditure that needs to be covered, justice, a tax incidence that seems to me to have something to do with this bill and neutrality. So let me figure out what the essence of this replica of mine is. It seems to me that you were going to say in your replica that the change in the tax system and the tax policy is causing the instability of the entire tax system. I don't think that's true. The stability of the tax system can be precisely achieved through tax changes, the tax system and tax policy. That's the essence of my replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58293	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58294	I fully agree with this definition you've read, and now I'm going to try to place what I'm saying in your definition. If you raise your rate from 23 to 25% it's an increase of 8.8% it's the hardest one to fall to those who have the least. Because whoever has 20, 30 thousand kunas is still willing to pay him something two kunas more or less. If you also increase his electricity 35 percent, the gas is 35%, the heating is 35%, and then you recalculate these 8.8% VAT increases again by the highest of those who have the lowest. That's the principle of justice. Why was I talking about package and chaos? Well, for reasons, the minister probably didn't have a bad intention when he suggested that he go from 15 to 13% but did not find adequate compensation for it. I know if I can say what he thought he was going to compensate, but it wasn't done in a package for one reason or another, I don't want to get into it. And what happened was that instead of some increased revenue in the budget due to tax changes, there was a huge downside in the budget, and the effect of that 2% was not felt in the economy because those 2 billion and 600 and 700 went to very many users and, unfortunately, none of them benefited at all. And then there's these tiny changes that tang those who have the least and who are the most sensitive and that's what's not good because a kind of social policy has to be run. And that is why I am pleased that the new Fiscal Responsibility Act further strengthens the fact that whoever proposes any law that reduces tax duties must show it as an estimate of some expenditure that is not direct expenditure, and in fact it is because if it had not been done, it would have been an increased revenue side. And so the two of us in this definition don't even differ at all just try this definition that you've read to install... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58295	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Dragica Zgrebec, and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58296	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you are constantly calling for truth and truth. So when you refer to truthfulness and facts then on several occasions and through basic exposure and then through replicas of VAT you count on total income. You speak, hospitality will have the total income so much so that 30% of the rate is so much higher. VAT is not calculated on the total income, VAT is calculated on the added value. The caterers and all those who have an interdepartmental rate will have a 25% rate and will pay a final tax of 13 and so far at 10%, from now on to 13%. And the only thing that's true and true is that the rate rises by 30%, but that doesn't mean that they're going to pay the total income 30% higher. Well, that's what fellow Shuker and you know it. Well, you said there'd be 10 million kunas of traffic, so it's going to be so many times 30%. And as for who's going to pay, you didn't care how kids feel when the rate was on baby food 22 or 23% but now that it's 10% up to 13% now you're very worried. So much for truth and facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58297	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58298	Well, colleagues of Zgreba, I'm very pleased with you from the depths of this debate, and now I understand where all the delusions from the SDP club are coming from. So, unfortunately, you don't know how to calculate VAT. When you buy something you pay for that VAT comes the accounting period and all you pay for is that you pay, and everything you deliver you calculate at 25% rate, everything you deliver. And if you noticed if I said if someone had gross turnover of 50 million kuna, they would increase his tax burden by a million 300 and a million 200 thousand kuna means I didn't count 3% on 50 million but I counted 3% on the basis of the VAT. So, unfortunately you said here at the catering they paid what they got 25% and only added 10%. No, my colleague Zgrebec, that beer if he bought 4 kunas and paid 25% of the VAT on it, it's a pre-tax that's recognised to him as a paid tax and he's on a beer he sells at a restaurant of 8 kuna bills 10% and his tax liability is less than his beer tax and the state has to pay back more than he has to collect. That's true. And you can say whatever you want now and there's the biggest delusion, but that's why you don't even know what happened negatively when you cut VAT taxes in catering. My colleague Zgrebec if a company buys a beer at 3 kuna on it accounts for 25% of the tax that is 3.75 kuna, buys it at the grocery store he sells at 10 kuna, so he charged 10% of the taxes on the $9.1 kuna. In the end 25% of VAT is recognised as a paid tax and its obligation is 10%. [[Intruder: Time.]] So finally, now that you're leveling it, you're paying more than you're paying. That's true, it's a fact that delusions are very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58299	Now we'll hear the replica of counterpart Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58300	Dear fellow Shuker, you have explained the formation and what a public debt it is. Now, as I understand it. If there is an increase in public debt, if the result is economic growth, employment, an increase in industrial production, an increase in exports, then it is justified to increase public debt. But if that is missing, then it means covering the incompetence of this government and covering the absence of any structural reform. History simply repeats itself. Remember, in 2002, the same obligation was introduced to doctors before they sold the Pliva stock control package for 750 million kuna without the rightful decision of the Governing Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to make Pliva worth 500 million kuna in 3 months. A crime no one's ever investigated. And now it will sell Croatia's insurance, Croatia's postal bank, Croatia's highway. Because imagine, my colleague Vuksic and you said that Europe and the world speak and recognize our experts as top-notch, as Shuker was once the best shooter in the world championship, the best player, so our doctors are top-notch. But look, says Health Minister Linic, not a lapus, Health Minister Linic, because he has taken over the health care sector that doctors are incompetent, unemployed, thieves, mechanics and that he will not pay eight kunas for their preparation. Listen now, there was recently a heart transplant, this drone, this mechanic, that thief, that criminal transplanted the heart for four hours and now he's waiting for Minister Linic to feel sorry for himself and pay him, watch out for a shameful collective contract of 32 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58301	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58302	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinovic would be fine, I can see that his SDP colleagues are laughing because they don't know that with those 7% was basically sold a control package, states in Pliva. Because when the state was 25%, then it was able to control what was going to happen to that company. Then somewhere if I'm not mistaken for a billion and 700 debts to hospitals, it's partly made up for the sale of Pliva shares. But I'm saying, it's a long story, let someone else deal with it. And as for public debt, I've said several times what it is and how it occurs. Thus, they are facts no matter how much anyone likes or dislikes them. But I remember sometimes when the health budget was 11 or 12 billion, health debt was 7 billion. It calmed down, it wasn't screaming, it wasn't a radio spectacle, there were some things down, and we came to the state budget deficit in 2008 to 0.8%. And it was a real fiscal consolidation. But if you say you've created a fiscal consolidation and then from the budget, the government budget deficit of 11 billion in the following year jump to 16, 17 and jump to 22, 22 next year, it's a great consolidation in the rise of public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58303	A new replica of Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58304	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Shuker, I agree fully with your debate, however, I cannot take away the impression that we are a happy country, with us all growing, taxes, unemployment, unfortunately the highest amount of nonsense. And we are champions of the world in what is wrong, and we always try to justify it and put it on someone else. Taxes on children's food know what it's like, raising taxes on children's food, we know what a demographic picture of Croatia is instead of doing everything we do to have as many children as possible and to reduce that tax, I won't talk about the newspapers and everything else we raise that tax. Says my colleague from my county, just keep going, as it has been so far, raise taxes, sell out everything that's left for 5 times less value, and we'll be collecting 400 thousand unemployed by the end of the term. Others say the minister is offering a new hope. I'm afraid I don't know where this hope leads us except to ruin. And in the end, I'd be worth all of Thompson's "E my peoples" to us what you have to look at, listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58305	Ivan Shuker will answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Kulušić, in the past two calls from our right, came from the left-hand chairman a bunch of legislative proposals. And then it assured us that it was a rescue for Croatia, that this is what must be applied, among other things, a lot of tax proposals but not tax increases but reductions. Now, look, if you're suggesting something like that and you're saying that it can raise Croatia economically, then the logical thing is when you come to power to simply put those dozens of laws on the government, formally adopt, send it to the Parliament and adopt it nicely in the Parliament and start the economic boom of the Republic of Croatia. The tax discharge of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia begins. But look, instead of reducing the VAT to 17%, you raise it to 25%. Instead of introducing a zero rate on children's food, clothing and shoes now first 10 and now 13%. So instead of helping tourism to be stronger and more pulsating, to be an indirect exporter to many Croatian economies, first you give them, then you take them away. And that's a policy that creates one uncertainty. So if you're still retroactively accounting for dividend taxes to those who didn't pay dividends, they simply used those funds to be trades. And those who have the highest dividend will pay nothing or pay any change under the double taxation agreement with their home countries. But I'm saying, I wish I was at least one of those strong laws that came from the other side of the assembly during the HDZ government, at least if one had come into the parliamentary procedure so that it was adopted, because believe me, I would vote for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58307	Next replica, colleague Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58308	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said with a fine dose of malice that the government's budget deficit in four years from 2013-2016 would be 60 billion kuna. That's true, unfortunately, but it's true. So there's nothing hidden in that number, it's completely real, it's completely transparent, and it's the result of the huge interest that's being paid on the debt that you've created, and that debt should finally begin to pay back the principal, not just interest, but the principal. Since '90. For years, neither the euro nor the dollar nor the kuna of the principal has been returned. So we were only able to serve interest, of course we got a large deficit, of course we included the deficit in the public debt and will report a debt by the end of the year reaching 195 billion kuna. To go back to the deficit. What did you leave in 2011, you said the deficit was 15 billion kuna, and you know how much it was? Twenty-six billion kuna. That's not what we said, that's what EUROSTAT said. So EUROSTAT detected in 2009 a deficit of 17.3 billion, you said in 2008 that 2.8 billion were deficits and that you were rewarded for it. I don't know how you grew to 17.3 billion in 2009. In 2010, you were 20.6 billion, 2011. 25.7 billion, that is, in those three years 66 billion kuna. So it exposed EUROSTAT in its analysis, you have shown much less and there is a great difference between you and this government, precisely in that honesty, in that transparency in showing data.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58309	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58310	Well, fellow Jelish, I don't like to discredit anyone. This is all you said... it says in all the calculations of the past, so shipbuilding is nothing new. All the guarantees issued in the shipbuilding sector were registered to you and it was precisely known at the time when the shipbuilding restructuring process was completed that 9 billion guarantees issued by the state in the shipbuilding sector would simply be taken over by the state. In which year it will count, it is statistically irrelevant. Why? Because it's going to go through the loans for the next few years. Therefore, it served you this vividly well to look, it could have been put into deficit in 2011, the exact same story because it didn't cost anything. And as for interest, look, you can talk about the increase in interest, possibly in part 2012, but in 2013, an increase in interest exclusively exists for your borrowing. Because look, all the interest rates are in 2012 you're counting on those loans that were in the previous years. According to what you're saying, with such a great policy, you might be more in debt than HDZ, because that's the only reason for the increase in interest on loans raised by 2011. All this interest increase is the result of your borrowing, and this is the most spectacular picture of your deficit, the most spectacular picture of your colleague. Because look, you can't say that in 2013 interest rates increased with the basis of HDZ's duties. These interest rates were inconclusive in 2012. If you're in a credit reprogramme that's been raised by HDZ at a more unfavourable rate because of the market situation, it's not that we understand each other's faults, then it could be a potential increase. Because I say 2012, yes, but in 2013, no, that's how much math I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58311	Last line, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58312	Dear fellow Shuker, you love to read numbers on child food tax in relation to HDZ measures against children's food. Always and now with this tax hike, it's even lower by 10 index points, so the truth works. But today we are talking about the government of the Kukuriku coalition saying that the excellent move is to cut child food taxes from 25 to 10% and that's what we said was great. It's bad that it goes to 13%. The other thing you've been commenting on, it's an imposition on text messages. Children are much less influential than Mr. Mudrinic, nothing was invested later, it was said to be withdrawn because telecommunications companies will invest large amounts of money. What I fully agree with is the reduction of 5 million HINAs, 5 million kunas for next year, means the actual abolition of HINA and how many rumors are heard and the merger of HINA with HRT means that the agency is dead, that the state has already decided if it is not corrected in the budget for next year. We join, we should remind ourselves that last time we gave amendments to HINA, we gave amendments for reducing VAT to scientific journals, magazines with culture and art and local media. It was also not respected, but this time we will also join in some joint amendment. And I'm warning you, HINA can't be abolished, and reducing the budget by 5 million that's dodging.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58313	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58314	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, it's a great thing to be a lawyer if necessary. Yeah, baby food, I said here. The concept, therefore, of the HDZ government was at the time when a zero rate for bread and milk would have to be abolished and that tax revenue from somewhere at least 2 billion kuna would have to be exceeded to what is most needed. Is it fresh meat and children's food and the need for children, so it should simply be compensated in that package. Because if you hit someone with some measure, then it's more like a warrant with what you get to bring back another way, and the logical thing was to make it fresh meat and baby food. We weren't in a position to do that. But look, colleague Vuksic, why I mentioned baby food. Because until they were in power on the other hand, a proposal came to make for child food, clothing and training a zero VAT rate. That's why I mentioned in the context of the increase in VAT rates from 10 to 13% and also these SMS messages could have covered many to say tiny, neural points. One of them is HINA regardless of who agreed or disagreed, but HINA is perhaps perhaps the most objective at the moment because it simply places the information without comment and then let every citizen of the Republic comment on how he thinks and how he should and therefore the HINA simply needs it. And if we give it to someone who informs Croatian citizens in this way, then I think that little money from maybe several hundred thousand kuna that HINA will pay less taxes won't cost anyone much, and it will mean a lot to them because they are taught little and they will do a lot with them. But I say it's easy to make laws and send them when you're not in power. That's why I said on behalf of the HDZ Club in my first reading debate that at this point, we believe that the reduction in the rate of hospitality, not for tourism from 20 to five, to 10% is not a good move and that it is too much of a loss in the budget compared to its benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58315	For the pay phone, I now invite Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just a brief review of the club's exposure. What I want to deny is a fundamental claim from the club that we have chaos on the revenue side. Now, I'll talk numbers. 2011 State budget revenue side 107 billion kuna. 2012 109.8 and 2013 are expected to be 110.5. That's what we're talking about here. Let's move on. Tax returns. 61 billion tax revenues 2011. 64.3 in 2012 and a little less than 63.7 we expect this year. Chaos, bravo! And now we're talking about incentives to the economy. What do we have in 2013? For the first time, it is necessary not to pay the profit tax if it is reinvested. Yes, a significant reduction. 8 months of VAT accounting technology on import goods missing revenues one month. Well, that's the change on the income side. The reduction of VAT also at a rate related to food and drink. It's all in there. And how much revenue is less? Incomes are less than 600 million. But where else do we have a change? We have a change in the payments of 38.6 billion 2011 and then a fall to 37.6. It's an effect of reducing the health rate. So we have this year 37.4. So, at a time when we don't have economic growth, we have growth and income and we have growth and tax revenues. We have a drop in income based on contributions. This is what government policy is, to relieve the economy because without the economy it will invest, which will take great care of the number of employees there is no economic growth, there are no jobs and therefore there are redundancies there. And the transfer of that discharge was mostly through value added tax to citizens. Yes, the burden of crisis is borne by citizens and trying to give economy. Clean calculations, the economy currently has 1.4% of the social gross product of ease compared to 2011. 1.4, convert that, it's a little less than 5 billion kuna. We have less revenue in the budget since we wanted to encourage those who needed to take care of the job. Do we have any effects? Well, we don't, we don't. Because the effects should be in investment, in most of the employees and should be in greater exports to the EU. We have entered the EU to export something. But the economy went to build apartments, business spaces, work projects and re-use of land because it expected Europe and rich Europeans to buy in Croatia without turning to production. Yeah, they're failures. There is no need to talk about additional government measures where, through pre-warrant settlements, he tries to consolidate and settle missed private sector investments. That's all the measures. But if it's called like, and then what do we say on the expense side where the expenditures grow in this year at 126.8 billion. What are they growing up in? That's where the government's policy is seen. They don't grow on salaries, they don't grow on subsidies, they don't grow on material expenditures. But the truth grows on interest, EU entry, budget commitments. Yes, these are all new expenditures that are to blame for spending, the spending party and that then the deficit which has been significantly reduced in 2012 is growing in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58317	We're moving on to replicas. First, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58318	A colleague of Linic, Mr. Minister. If you'd listened to my argument, you'd never have said what you said. I said I think you should have made a tax reform in the package. Because you didn't do it happened in that context chaos on the income side. So, not talking about the whole part entirely. And the best shows your reasons when proposing certain tax changes after the first one you have proposed. Well, after all, Mr. Minister, do you think if three months ago you suggest and you assure us that the 25 to 10% reduction in catering is a great thing, etc., and then you knew in the depth of your soul what would happen to the budget as well as we, and if then, although we may have been able to tell you because of populist intentions, it's super warning you that it's not good and that it's not good because of the income side of the budget, the same story. Remember what we used to say here on behalf of the HDZ Club when the law changed and so on. deferral of value added tax due to Croatia's entry into the EU. Did we then tell you and warn you that your assessment of the loss of income will be less than you put in? So you can't say that the moment the law was passed we didn't say what we're saying now. But I'm telling you this chaos, and I said it's been compromised, it's about this part of the IRS. So you'll never hear from me that I'm going to attack people in the IRS. I said, every grain has a weed in it, but don't impute me what I didn't say. And I repeat, and now I'm going to tell you that I think that this kind of radical tax change should have been made in the package. See after a year which is the effect of all this together and then go eventually to interventions in plus or minus. And these are the kind of partial changes you unfortunately made in that revenue section that you wanted to make, but the one that you wanted to make afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58319	Minister Ivan Šuker answers, forgive Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58320	I can say again that I do not accept that there has been chaos in tax policy. Tax policy was very clear, reducing labour costs and allowing the Croatian economy to be competitive when it comes to Europe. That's why the economy was given 5 billion kuna. And that's why we have 5 billion kunas less in this year's budget. With a very clear and transparent policy to reduce health contributions, parafiscal burdens, reduce the burden on profit tax if you go into reinvestment. It was all made to support the economy. And it's all been found and compensated, unfortunately for the burden of the citizens. And this government has never disputed that a good part of the crisis has shifted to the citizens because it is an important job for us. So it's not a chaos of politics, but wherever we cut it, we found a counterweight. On the other hand, we can always differ. Your policy is not to interfere with the preparation of food and drink. It's your right. This coalition said we are for the interstep. And that's what separates us as politicians. But if that's what you call chaos, then it's just something that's not true. This is politics, and in this policy we show that we do not fall tax revenues, do not fall and that there is no tax revenue problem and that there is no problem with unbalanced income, the problem is that there is no economic growth. But what is the problem with this government is the growth of expenditure and this is the new expenditure resulting from our entry into the EU, and at the same time aid to the economy has not resulted because the economy has not achieved exports. That's the problem. But that's why you give incentives. And imagine there weren't five billion incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58321	The second line is a colleague of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the truth that you're inexorably expressing is likable, especially when you're speaking very specifically, but I don't like the truth in which you're saying that we transfer the burden exclusively to the back of citizens. So I'd like to ask you maybe one question here, does everything have to be on the back of the citizens? You may answer me how many millions of kunas are currently on APIS accounts and similar state-owned companies, and why don't you use these funds to raise the lack of funds in the state budget rather than get more and more into citizens' pockets? Perhaps, according to the findings of the latest state audit, I know how much it said there was money, so why don't we just use those funds instead of increasing the VAT rate to baby food? Maybe here's something we can do, so if you have that information and knowledge, it might be good to know that the MPs know and see if we really have any more reserves in these state-owned companies or agencies that we can get something out of and less burden on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58323	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58324	Yes, for two years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not taken any kuna dividends from companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. And not even in INA, except for 2012. Why? Because we demanded that the money generated by dividends be invested in capital and to go into investment. And to secure their own resources because more investment only out of a loan can't. The economics is unwarranted and the problem is to get credit back then. Therefore, it was the government's policy, meaning battle for the workplace. In this year we gave up on the INA and 50% entered the state budget. Why? Because there's no investment. Therefore, in 2013, it will also be turned around to see what state-owned companies are investing in because the projects are now completed, resolved and a very clear answer, if there is any investment all the money will remain in these companies. If there is no investment then it is very clear, we will simply withdraw them to the state budget. These are policies where for this government there is a battle for the workplace. Is that an existence? Is something far more important than what we call the deficit problem in the state budget. So there is no increase in the cost of traditional but at the same time the battle for the workplace is the politics of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58325	The third line is Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. By comparing 2011 with 2012 and 2013, you clearly mentioned that tax revenues were growing. Well, that's clear to everyone. You increased VAT from 23% to 25% clearly that tax revenues must grow. But what are the results of your overall policy? if you have already compared 2011, 2012 and 2013 And in 2011, we had a stagnation so we didn't have a GDP drop-- we had growth in the 2rd and 3rd trimesters, and these are facts that no one can deny. So we had economic growth in 2011 in the 2rd quarter. However, you are coming in 2012. You announce that you will have a 2% growth. And what is the final result of your policy of your fiscal and other policy? The clear result is a decline of minus 2%. Now in a few days we'll have budget rebalances, you assure us you've already adopted this rebalance that we will have an economic growth of 0.2% by the end of this year, so we will end the year with a growth of 0.2% even though everyone assures you so here and yesterday, the EBRD will not mention the World Bank reports. The World Bank praises that there has been an improvement in tax collection, it praises the World Bank but everything else is negative by the World Bank report. The EBRD announced yesterday that the Croatian economy will fall by 0.8% in this year, so we will have a minus 0.8% and that means there will be a difference of 1% of GDP compared to your planned one. So of 1% de facto you know how many billions of kunas it is. And how can you convince us to make good moves when we have a fall all the time. Since you came to power, we've been falling. So what you do is not a quality prerequisite for economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58327	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58328	Yes, obviously, the government of the Republic of Croatia is deeply concerned by the continuing economic downturn and therefore leads to a policy on how to help this economy and therefore we have a reduction in the health contribution, which is why we have reduced parafiscal burdens and therefore we have a reduction in the income tax if the profits are reinvested and therefore we have pre-warrant deals and write-offs of one-off claims by citizens. All in order to finally bring this economy that was devastated in the period 2008-2011. It is precisely the economy that entered the completely wrong investments spent its money, spent other people's money, closed jobs all of it back to start exporting it, to start the economy with investment, and that is why we give up five billion kuna in the annual budget for 2013 to give it to the economy in order to recover. They're still screaming insufficiently. I agree. But the minuses in our budget are those that don't allow any more space, minus. It is therefore a policy to help the economy and to expect that it will finally start to restructure and reverse production. And that's the problem with cleaning up. But it's also a discipline that you all say is a tax press. No, it is not, but all those who will not pay taxes will not enter the processes and restructuring of the rest must be shut down because they are a unfair match, closing jobs with those who are fairly paying taxes and who are working honestly on the Croatian market. There are very clear messages, that these are changes, that is the battle that the economy is finally functioning. For you, it's unacceptable, but to be honest, you haven't had one measure in three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58329	Now we'll hear the replica of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58330	Dear Minister Linic, you said you repeated a finding that you also said this morning that you had transferred the burden of the crisis to the back of the citizens. Now I ask her is that good? Will that measure preserve jobs when there is less and less money for personal consumption? There will be no more need to produce and sell because there will be no more who and what to buy with. Tell me what will eventually happen if production is not launched, and less and less can be started if citizens no longer have anything to shop for if they barely settle their accounts, directors? Explain that measure to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58331	The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58332	Yeah, that's your difference. This government believes that economic growth is seen in an investment in exports. Unlike those who are a theory, we raise the consumption of unreal high wages, higher pensions and spending. Excuse me, is that covered in social product? Well, it's not. Why do we have 850 grand or 650 grand anymore I don't even know how to block citizens' accounts? Well, because we stimulated consumption but not our own money, from credit. And we lived and made sure we produced something in Croatia. The state spent more than she could. That's why we have a deficit in the state budget, so we don't pay back the debts we're in debt for. Yeah, it's a problem of consumption, of consumption. This government wants to say no, the exit for us is more investment, new jobs and exports. Let them spend somewhere else that we have to create because with larger exports we'll finally have a more stable balance sheet, we'll have a more positive balance sheet, and it'll cut public debt. These are all very clear messages we're trying to send on behalf of the government. And unfortunately, someone has to pay for the crisis. Whether or not the businessmen will be stopped in full and there will be no investment, but you will allow most of it to be paid by citizens. And very clear recommendations are also to relieve Europe's economy and relocate your tax burden on consumption. I am therefore trying to follow something that is competitive with Europe as well. Because we are now part of the European market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58333	Followed by the replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58334	Thank you very much. The Honored Minister, you said you were giving to the economy. With this law if tourism is an economy you take. That's the same thing you have to say, it's the same fact. It should be recognised as you boasted as each government so far has increased the number of nights and this year. It's a fact, a rise in the number of nights. Unfortunately, the only positive index in the past two years that this government has achieved. The income from tourism is not insignificant, it is very much involved in state revenues. The story of fiscalization and the tax press, before talking about how to reduce returns rather than increase revenues. That's confirmed by all the caterers. How to reduce the return, and that's what we've cleared up here today. That's why those absurd situations were for 10 kunas, 7 kunas closing the catering facilities. Hoteliers pay 9 billion kuna a year. And they don't keep it a secret, and they know what these three percentage points mean to them. 280 million kunas less. To them. State more. And they rightly warn, you're reducing our investment opportunities, 280 million kuna for us means less than a billion kuna investment. And that's a fact and you can't deny it. Then why are we sacrificing investment and jobs? Is that 300 million kuna worth such a move,... These long-term moves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll see how the tourist season takes place this year. And that's why we're rightly saying this isn't necessary. You said yourself that you should think about an 8% rate for tourism if I remember correctly. So why are we talking about 13%? What has changed in the past few months? When we know how much progress France made when it reduced its rate from 19 to 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58335	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58336	Yes, it's true, for accommodation facilities it's more burdensome. But you know when we talk about investment interestingly that none of you are going to calculate what zero percent of the tax on reinvested profits means. So everything they do and want to invest zero percent of their taxes. Did you calculate that? So 280 million you know will... More, will, yes, will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much will he pay less taxes on profits? ......... How little, zero, they're not going to invest, great, they're going to pay another 20% of the profit tax. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's always try to look at the set of measures towards the economy. Yes, that's right, the tourism economy has been given an interspecies step to prepare food and drink. Let them figure out what that is. And they got a zero rate for all the investments. Zero profit tax rate. Gentlemen, yes, they got far more than they had in 2011. Far more. And what it is, we always direct them to new jobs and investments. If I thought of Shuker, what did he say before? We took the peasants and gave them some Swedes, Norwegians. Now you pay differently. My dear gentlemen, politics is very clear. We're raising the pace because there's no revenue in the budget. At the same time, the accommodation tourism that got away is far more, far more if we take the drop in rates, at the inter-step preparation of food and drinks, and when we take a zero profit tax that will not pay if they invest. So try to create a balance sheet and you'll see. She's positive. Whether someone works or not, we'll see the answers. But we don't need an unobstructed debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58337	Martina Dalic's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58338	Dear Minister, in your explanation and in response to a series of these replicas, you have said that of the many changes you have listed and for which you have presented a series of your arguments, unfortunately there are no results. And did it actually occur to you then, Mr. Minister, that the results may not be from what is constantly and continuously, continuously, at very short intervals, you are making changes in the tax system? I'm not going to repeat all these allegations at all. So first we raise the standard rate, we cut the contribution, right, and then we figure after that, we have to cancel the zeros. So after that, we're reducing the reduced rate for hospitality, now we increase that rate, others come income tax laws where some tax burdens are increasing again. Have you considered that the problem with having too much frequency of these changes is that you do not allow neither the economy nor the citizens to simply overcome these changes and the economic cycle to move forward? 250 or 300 million kunas of income that you will achieve by increasing the rate may be the economic effects of keeping rates in, and the structure of the rate in value added tax would be higher. It is doubtless that now, you are proposing to me and the Parliament will certainly vote to increase the rates for this famous accommodation that they have more or less agreed prices. And that you have now essentially changed their business conditions several months before the effective start of the new tourist season. My message and the question, Mr. Minister, is that the tax system should be more stable, and that in itself gives some of its results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58339	Minister Slavko Linic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58340	Well, they were stable from 2008 to 2011 and the economy capitulated. Dubiosis, the debts of 45 billion unpaid accounts, it was a policy not to touch and inactive policies. Interestingly, we, yes, are active, the crisis is, we want to be active in solving the problem in the economy. Yes, it's the policies of the coalition government. We're changing them all the time, but interestingly enough, let's take less than 5 billion kuna to that economy. These changes are not welcome. There's nothing to comment on because I think the reverse, all the changes the government's been making have been going on right now for the economy to help consolidate, to be more competitive. Yes, such changes will continue, and stability and non-crisis monitoring have shown how successful it has been. That's what you showed. 45 billion unpaid bills, but we're slowly dealing with that part. Unpaid debts by the state, and we've been dealing with it slowly. You know, these are changes seen and strengthened liquidity and economic recovery. When there's gonna be a change, we'll see. Obviously, you think they were supposed to be yesterday and I'd love to, but they're not, which means that the situation in that economy for which you haven't changed anything very hard, but a very difficult condition is not solved by sleep and inactivity. This government does it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58341	Now we will continue the debate by the clubs, and on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58342	Honorable Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, this is one of the what do I call it, the Crucial Laws. Why, because this is the VAT code, the highest tax. Yesterday we talked about the pension system and then we realized that Croatia had a million 380 thousand 510 insurance companies in 2000, 2012 million 432 thousand 740. So in those 12 years 52 230 more insurance companies are paying contributions, but also 199 188 pensioners, and that's what happened to 1.18:1. And since the beginning of November and that is the same truth, every day the cancellation in Croatia gets 465 workers, in Istria 30 of them every day appears further on the Institute or on the labour market. In September 30, we had 9100 unemployed, and by the end of the month it would be close to 10 grand. So every day in this country, there's one Riviera, one Anita, one Laguna, one Istria tourist. It's before us, so this VAT bill. I didn't happen to mention these tourist companies, why, because someone in front of us calls this law tourism. And let's do it in a little order. Until the '90s. A year from there in '60. '90s. 90 hotels have been built in one Istria since '90. There was a war, we had that attack on SR Yugoslavia, etc., the year of the general crisis, there were five new hotels built. Okay, the standard is up in the existing ones. I dare say nothing dramatic will happen, nothing dramatic, I will repeat once again, if their VAT rises from 10 to 13%, by those 3 percentage points, I agree with Schuker, that's 33% today. It is true that Mr Shuker or the then government, it does not matter, the Parliament adopted it in 2006, 2007, dropped VAT on accommodation services from 22% to 10% and I also agree that it was the right measure, so this is about accommodation, about renting rooms, pensions, a package of these arrangements, etc. This government is with 25% VAT on services of drinks, food, etc. dropped to 10% in order to increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, lower food and drink services and invest tourism. What positive effect were these measures? First of all, a billion euros of new revenues were not recorded in the tax system. So the caterers began to show realistically what they otherwise went on or on. So what happens now? I'm talking about Istria. The competition hasn't increased, we've got accommodation in nine months, we've got numbers like last year. I'm talking about Istria. It may now be after being a cynical assembly of the County of the Istrian Lagoon of Poreč, not talking about counselors, giving concessions to the beach for 20 years. Maybe now we'll be more competitive. When Mr. Štifanić, the son of the late Stifanić, told me by which tourist workers receive awards in Croatia, I could not believe it. Are we going to become colonies, he asked me. I want to believe you don't. But what's going on? They give concessions, the county sublets and then that same Laguna sells it 3.5.7.9 times more expensive. Now, was tourism supposed to be more competitive? In 2013, large hotel houses deposited 800 million kuna in Istria. For 2014 announced investments of 600 million kuna, 200 million kuna are less announced now. The tourism revenue in 2008 was 7.5 billion euros, during Mr. Bajs, this year if I am not mistaken for 7.2 billion euros, 2012 somewhere around 6.8 billion euros, and it will certainly take us two more years to reach our 2008 tourism revenues. And exactly what the minister is saying, those who invest have 0% means of that reinvested profit. Now, where does that profit end? It's also known abroad. So all these big houses, how did they get to the hotel? So through the form of coupon privatisations, or revaluations, and previously paid loans. And who owns these Istrian tourist houses that carry a third of the tourist income in Croatia? These are foreign-owned banks, these are the funds from Count Eltz, all the way there to Luksic's group from Chile, and I'm not counting any further. To be clear, tourism is an absolutely important branch. God forbid we don't have one in Istria, we'd be like Slavons. So someone doesn't get me wrong. I might be a little bit now, I'm sorry. Come on, Bug, I'm sorry. I mean, I speak economically, financially, so I guess we're the same. Come on, I guess we're the same, but good. But what am I saying? In this tourism as it is now, 50% less employed than the 1990s. Salaries are still 15 or 16% less than the average of the Republic and pay nothing that bothers me from tourist land and further, and the system is normally managed by the party. Maybe that's good, I don't know I'll keep my mouth shut but let the gentlemen invest. And you know what I'd do if I could pick this other one between the reduced differentiated rates between tourism and the processing tree, between tourism and tricotage and metals. The burden of recovery means 2012, 2013 I agree, was absolutely transferred to the citizens. Who was he transferred to? At the orphanage, it means the ones he has the most. The economy is and I agree never harder, but it was left with 8 billion kuna in 2 years. If it wasn't for that, I don't know what would have happened. This year, the minister speaks 1.4% of gross social product or 5 billion. Three billion last year. I think I know what it's like before all this little economy, but it's important, and we don't have to agree to the next one. The young always suffer, and the great one is always cared for by the one who is even bigger than them, which is a clear state, and tourism in these large systems is generally cared for by the state, local self-government between being privileged with these concessions or using millions of hectares of tourist land nicely and paying no one anything. I may have been the first to speak, or I was against an openly larger VAT from 23% to 25. But this thing with the one at the rate, the differentiated rate, whatever we're going to call it, 13% is just not unexpected. In that one budgetary context, 2013 and 2019 So 2013 budget expenditures are 119 billion kuna. 49% goes to citizens' rights, pensions, welfare, defenders. 23% go to pay, 16% are capital and interest, 5.7% are subsidies, local self-government what is left, returns 4.7 billion kuna, investments in misery. What I think, however, is that some of the food for some of the existing goods should be burdened under quotes or should be spread. So that should be a 13% load. I don't know if there's fruit, I don't know if there are any categories of meat produced here in Croatia that we have enough. I don't know what, turkeys from Pazin. He's in bankruptcy anyway. But that's what I think the point is, and maybe in that part of the country you should risk, not gamble, but take risks. Part of the food, so it may need to be extended with that subsidized rate, not a subsidized rate, privileged under the quotes at a rate of 13 feet. We agree that VAT is the highest tax. We also know that the state doesn't have a lot of free resources outside of these parafiscal funds like roads, like I don't know water. We have next year 44 billion kunas that we'll be in charge of serving the deficit of 17 billion kuna and 22 billion kuna or a little bit more will go for interest and capital. And it's true once again, I'm going to say that the bulk of the burden is simply being paid by the citizens. If the growth of gross social product doesn't happen in 2014 I don't think any alchemy will help us, so we won't be helped by this law either. If there's no growth, I don't know if there's going to be a temporary election or not, but maybe some new government will re-correct this VAT. So for tourism, it's painful, but it's not controversial. It's a dispute that people just don't have, that they've lost everything. It all comes down to naked survival. Opening the border, and I agree, will hit us further. It's a dispute that our people simply can't afford one lunch outside of a restaurant, in some catering facility, which makes our cities seem like a curfew after night falls. All part of the food from 25% should be reduced to 13%, but without this VAT, and it is 600 million kuna. We'll talk about some other laws later. Of course there's no budget for next year. I'm glad to correct this VAT about those 25,000 words for part of the media. You might want to think about HINA, too. I agree with that. Why am I apostrophe to HINA? In one Istria there is no longer a correspondent of the morning, in one Istria there is no more correspondent who works there for the evening, Free Dalmatia, well the New List and Voice of Istria it is expensive. It was all covered by HINA. And that's why I did it for that HINA. We've heard now that it's likely that some things will connect to HRT where on the other hand we have some other measures that should be fired I don't know 600, 700 or how many employees. It would be good for what Shuker says to lower VAT payments to local media, but then let them be correct, and not only tolerable to those who are additionally funded from the budget of local self-government. And it is good for the Croatian public that someone also presented the deficits in 2009 to 2011 that totaled the brother to 66 billion kuna. All in all, simply gentlemen, 600 million kunas should be collected. I don't know how we're gonna get that money, and one of the most painless ways is exactly the one that's proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58343	Now we move on to replicas. The first one was applied for by counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58344	Thank you very much, Vice President. You said you didn't raise your hand for a 25% VAT, you raised your hand. I've seen you. You've raised your hand. ... Now you say you didn't, you did raise your hand and you're the ones who passed that law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's a fact. 25% of VAT and its reduction to 10% since 1.01.2013 did not create competitiveness, did not increase consumption except in part of the majority of tourist arrivals. Why? Because prices remained the same, if not more than they were in 2012 and 2011. There is no item that was cheaper on the Adriatic with this VAT of 10% than it was in 2011 and 2012. That's the facts. But that's why the 2006 move also marked the beginning of the better functioning of Croatian tourism from 22% to 10% in the accommodation, and in 2008 we had a record tourist season. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to determine exactly the value of this rate reduction from 25 to 10% because it lasted only 10 months. And what you're saying about concessions, you say beach concessions for 20 years, that's colonization. Then how will you explain the monetization of Croatian highways for 50 years? What's that gonna be? Then what are we gonna talk about? Is that then the great, smart and best move of this government that you support? And you speak against strangers owned. ... And you are not aware that the government is preparing a privatisation package for all tourist companies in the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So everything we own goes to the drum, goes for sale so I don't say sale. What are you going to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58345	Thank you. Now Damir Cain will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58346	Look, when we talk about beaches it's something clean, something God gave us, something that later those who get it then resell those concession rights three, times five, times seven. When we talk about monetization, you can laugh but that's when we talk about monetization in the period 2014, 2015, 2016, at the charge of Croatian highways comes over 18 billion kunas if I'm not mistaken. I don't know if those Croatian highways, what bankruptcy? Is that something I can settle? Well, I can't settle it, I can't. Can we simply find these 18 billion kunas from a budget like this? We can't. Well, before I said that our budget, Mr. Representative, is 119 billion kuna, 49% are citizens' rights, pensions, defenders. 23% go for salaries, medical staff, school workers, us here representatives, ministers, presidents of the state, etc., police and military. 16% go for the principals and interest rates, 5.7% for subsidies, etc. We have to be in charge of 44 billion kuna next year to serve 17 billion kuna deficits and pay off 22 or more billion kunas of this earned interest debt. I also said earlier that the 2006 measure, when we talk about accommodation, was a good measure, a potent measure. That in 2013, maybe we could have gone through without it, and if nothing else was done with it, you know what happened? Which the cleaner pulled out seven billion kunas in that simple dam that was hidden before anything else. But I also talked about investments in Istria, and there will be more replicas, and time slips away, which last year amounted to 800 million kuna, and this year 600 million kuna. And the question arises where does that profit go?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58347	Comrade Cain, thank you very much. Time's up. You had two minutes. A new replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Cain, you spoke about reducing VAT in tourism in 2006 from 22% to 10% and which means that increase now. If the average price of the bedroom is like 150 kuna, and according to HTZ and the tourism ministry, it was 69 million overnights and if you need to pay 4.5 kuna more VAT per night, then it turns out to you 300 and a few million kunas more in the obligations of the tourist sector. Or if you bought a beer for 4 kunas in a wholesale sale you paid 80 lips of VAT, if you sold it for 8 kunas in a brt you need to pay 72 June VAT per old and 92 lip per new. So the old state had to pay back more than the one who got the beer. So we talked about the harmfulness of the law, and according to the new VAT is increasing by 20 limes. This is the most complex explanation that this means in tourism because, as we say, by reducing the contribution by 2%, we have driven the economy by 2 billion 600 million that on the pile looks a lot, and when you divide it looks little. Here is the reverse process when you say that you're increasing the VAT rate by 3 percentage points or 30% then it doesn't seem like much, but when you multiply it by 69 or 70 million overnights, then that amount jumps to over 300 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58349	Answer Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58350	Absolutely there we all agree that the profits in the hotel sector will be lower but no one mentions that reinvested profit and zero kuna burden. So I guess everything that's reinvested should be compensated somehow. But once again, Mr. MP in Istria, investment in tourism this year amounted to 800 million kunas of these big tourist houses. Next year there will be 600 million kuna, 200 million kuna less. This means directly a thousand construction jobs less next year than they did this year. I was also talking about how to privatize. I absolutely don't mind the arrival of foreigners, however, come invest but how is the hotel sector privatised in the Republic of Croatia? First, on the basis of revolving previously paid loans, which will say that banks have taken over the entire tourism sector and based on coupon privatisation. Today we have 50% less employees in tourism than we had in the '90s and wages are usually 17 or I don't know how much 16% less than average Croatian wages. I said, "Don't let God give me that Istra doesn't have any tourism. I don't know what would happen to us." I agree that tourism is our most profitable branch, but it is interesting in Istrian tourism until the 1990s, during that darkness, 90 hotels were built and in these 23 years only 5 new hotels were built, 3 were built by domestic legal persons or physical persons, and 2 were built if I did not cheat on strangers. I agree tourism should be held so a little water on the palm of my hand, even salty but at this point I just don't know how to cover this other spending side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58351	Make sure you fit in in 2 minutes. You can see for yourself. A new replica of Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58352	Thank you very much. When you spoke about Istria and tourism, you turned to us from Slavonia and Baranja so dirty that we do not have tourism, but when we talk about tourism, I would like to say that Slavonia and Baranja have a lot of potential in continental tourism. But the fact is that we haven't felt a decrease in VAT from 22 to 10% is not corrected prices, they remain the same. They would have felt very strongly to reduce the VAT rate to food but we also felt good in Slavonia and Baranja when the incentives for agriculture were reduced. What is important, and you, too, in your debate, stressed that there is no uniform regional development and today's change of the PPDS law will very much feel Slavonia and Baranja especially those who are devastated. Regionalisation and fiscal decentralisation are therefore needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58353	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58354	I'll start with this last regionalization, absolutely yes. It is necessary to look at the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia and in this one form easily access these processes. No, in no way would Mr. Representative misread anything like you said I quote you "stirred" in my presentation. I said don't give God if he wasn't in Istria tourism I thought in that economic sense we would be so I said about like Slavonia. I, in Slavonia, always spoke with full understanding, with all due respect, with full gratitude mainly because of the fact that you know it much better, but we all know and feel what this Slavonia meant in this war years from '91 to '95. So, I don't think anyone should have experienced any depraved expressions in my words. The summum lauda with all due respect with the greatest gratitude to the Slavs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58355	The replica will now be presented by Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58356	Thank you, Mr. President. In your presentation, you justified the increase in VAT rates in tourism because as you say, it will hit the rich anyway, so you said that the owners of the sector... the bank said Count Eltz, Luksic, etc. That's not true. Namely, the tourism sector owned and owned by both small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, etc. So this VAT increase will feel a wide range of not only owners but also employees in the tourism sector in Croatia. But even if you were right when you talk about the fact that it will hit them the most, it would still be the wrong policy because tax policy is probably being implemented in a way that encourages the most profitable, most profitable economic branch that can contribute to development rather than the reverse of creating problems in this activity. But even if you were right, you obviously did not listen carefully to Mr. Minister Linic, who said there would be no additional inducement to the tourism sector because he said through the reinvested profit where the tax is zero. And through a series of other measures carried out by the government. Practically, the same sector, the tourism sector will not have a negative impact on the basis of an increase in VAT rates in tourism. So, on the one hand, you're contradictory, and on the other hand you don't listen carefully to the minister. Then by that logic, you should be against the law. If the criteria are that the introduction of the 10-to-13 steps will just protect those rich from what the minister said you should be against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58357	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58358	I think I listened to the minister very carefully, but maybe you didn't understand me. I didn't say this law would hit the rich, for the rich we'd be easy. Although I wouldn't mind more investment, more investment and no need to be afraid, afraid, or otherwise, every successful company needs to be encouraged. I am, if you have followed me well, saying that this law will ultimately affect the poverty of those who have the most. That's what I said. And that's the point. And the burden of recovery at this point is exactly on those who are the most and these are the ones that have the least today. What's the government doing? Well, the minister did, so I'm saying it and I don't know how long. Well, he's discharging the economy first. That 1.4% of gross social product this year or 5 billion kuna in the past with 3 billion kuna. On the other hand, what's going on? To the citizens, the burden is transferred through VAT form from 23% to 25%. Fiscalization, absolutely why not? Control just has to be. I also said that I am in some way abstention on VAT for these services but I also claim that nothing dramatic will happen in the tourism sector if that VAT rate from 10 is adjusted to 13%. And in order to perhaps personally be far happier to adjust VAT from 25% to 13%, for example. I don't know any textiles in this country who are almost on the air and who are also looking for a tax intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58359	And the last replica of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed a colleague of Cain's, some of these allegations that my predecessors were talking about, so they won't talk about what I don't agree with. But I must admit that in your debate I liked one moment and where you said I should be subsidized, those are your words or reduce VAT to food, to meat, I'm on meat, that's exactly what stuck my ear. But I want to tell you one sad truth that unfortunately, you still said what's enough about us. And the sad thing is that he has it, that meat production has fallen, milk production has also fallen. We also know that the number on forced slaughter already over 40,000 has ended, the number of cattle has ended. So that's all, therefore, the consequences of relations with agriculture and livestock. And we also know that a cycle like that, it can't be restored 5, 6 years ago. Of course we are in the continental part, rural areas interested in the strategic branch, tourism to be successful, efficient. To make our strategic branch of agriculture so spoken of, too. Well, there's no better idea than when it's said to connect the sea and continental Croatia and sell our products. But unfortunately, I have to convince you there is no production of crash, our village is on its knees, and that's where I see a big problem. So for this strategic branch, the agriculture I often talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58361	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58362	Absolutely, I also think that some products may, especially in that meatbrush, I don't know what it is, but the products produced in sufficient quantities here should be clearly subsidized industry and the VAT rate diversified or reduced. I'd like the same and here maybe after so much time we're getting along almost in everything that's said. I would just as you indirectly do invite these large hotelers to give more room to green Croatia. Green Croatia. Why is there no interest? I will not say that there is no interest in the fact that foreign capital today is dominant on the Adriatic, so it may encourage some of its branches from some of the countries from which they come. But once again, I will say, especially today when there are no more borders, when imports are free, when customs are no more, please give the gentlemen more work with this green Croatia. Everyone's gonna get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58363	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, a colleague named Valter Boljunčić signed up. He's gone, the club's losing the right to argue on this agenda point. On behalf of the SDP Club, counterpart Ivo Jelusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58364	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the VAT law, however, went a little wider today for the overall economic policy, and also for the policy at all, what is understandable in some way because talking about tax policy is difficult rather than talking about politics in general. Of course, this law is very, very small changes, I will not talk about those who are not controversial and about which the minister spoke about where certain improvements or simplification procedures apply. What caused the most attention and debate here is a change in rates, i.e. an increase in rates from 10 to 13%. And, of course, the most discussed in that part was the area that is increasing, perhaps least to be talked about, and it is about hospitality. Because that rate also covers water that we drink from pipe and oil and fat and sugar and children's food, but most of all here, but in public as much as possible there would be talks about how tourism will go, how hospitality will pass. Coming here to the Parliament this morning on some radio news at half past eight I'm looking at the president of the guest company who says it's going to hit the caterers terribly, that it's not a good decision, that it's going to make them less competitive. And now watch out, we all live here, someone in Zagreb, someone in another town, and now I haven't noticed anywhere that one caterer was when we reduced the VAT rate to those services from 25 percent to 10% that he reduced the price of coffee, beer or something, and now they're the loudest in being hit. So I'd dare tell them to keep quiet because we're doing everything for the citizens, and because of the citizens, nothing's going to happen with this increase in the rate of their services because, as they did then, they didn't lower prices, and they were supposed to have reduced VAT from 25 to 10%, and now they're not going to increase the price when we're only 3 index points. But, well, everyone scratches where it it's itchy, and even here, it's the one thing that really needs the least. Another argument, we've been reading some interviews by some leading managers in tourism, they say, but you know, we've already agreed on prices. Right, probably, counting on a different VAT. But they also agreed last year when they were counting with a 25% VAT, and it happened to be 10%. So let them take care of it. So the caterers profited greatly with what we talked about earlier, and they were least invited to rebel now. Of course we're in a very awkward position to defend something that's increasing. Every time something increases, it collects, it's hard to defend. However, things should be put in relation to some other parameters. We are aware of this and we are not hiding it and the minister has said it and we are all saying that we are doing this increase between us because we are simply missing the revenue side in the budget. We're not hiding it. It's no secret. And we expect that, on that basis, about 600 million kuna will be added to the budget. In doing so, we must take care of the following, that this rate that is now increasing in Croatia to 13% is not unusual in Europe and the European Union, although it is common. Typically almost in a good part of the countries or most of the countries to make the rate half of the overall rate. We have 25 in general, 13 is about half of it. Of course, could we have gone without this? Yes, and I would have dared say so much easier and much less debate here in Parliament whether we didn't just go into an increase in interdepartment, but if we had deprived the funds in the budget somewhere else or not. However, we decided to demonstrate our policy through this law, through the VAT Act, and our policy is clear, is, we're going to charge that part 3 percentage points more, but we're going to continue to disburse what we think is necessary, and that's the whole economy, so. We could have just returned the health care contribution rate from 13% to 15% as much as it was and picked up 2 billion, not 600 million as much as here. No, we didn't want to because we think it's necessary, that with that 2 billion, we're going to help the entire economy finally move forward, to start these growth rates, to start development, to start employment because this is no longer how it works. We are aware that all of these encouraging measures, of course, we are a little bit more burdened by citizens, but we are also aware that without the development of the economy, without new growth rates, without new employment in the long term, we will not be well, it can only be worse and simply at this time of crisis and recession we need to squeeze a little bit, we need a little more resources to leave the economy to start development, to start the economy, and to make it much better for all of us tomorrow. Was there anything else we could do? Well, we did, we could have said no, we won't, it's a crisis, we won't coordinate the pensions of those that come out of work, and then we'll pinch 400 million. No, that's not what we wanted. Better to increase the VAT rate, and further align pensions. Although there is a crisis, even though there is no money, we believe that these pensions are so low, they need to continue to be coordinated and supported in some way. Or maybe we should have abolished the provision we introduced last year that more, when it comes to non-taxing the reinvested profit, we should have returned it perhaps to tax all profits again and the one that is reinvested. That's where they'd pick up a lot more money. Somewhere around a billion and 600 million kunas are reinvested profits on which the state has collected 0 kuna taxes. If we had left the rate that was before, as it was for the previous governments, we could have picked up 300-thin or more million kunas, not to increase the rate. No, but we said we should encourage the economy because we see here a chance for all of us to finally work things out. Or maybe we should have made a decision that we would take all state-owned companies all profits into the state budget, so we could raise 300 maybe 500 million, or we could see how much, as the HDZ government did. No, we said we won't do it, let's keep it for investment, for development, etc. So all these measures are aimed at encouraging the economy, at developing the economy. Of course, we are not satisfied that there are no positive growth rates either, but I remind you that there are no these measures of economic policy and that we have continued with the same or old economic policy measures that the previous government has done, and we would not now be talking about a decline of 0.2, 0.7%, etc. rather than talk about 3, 3.5 or 4%. Then we'd all be in a much harder situation. So if there were no these measures, the situation would be far, far more difficult, and then it would take us years and decades and I don't know if it would help you and the whole of Europe and the entire IMF to stabilize. Therefore, this is a necessary measure. It is not popular every time, as it increases any rate of tax and this rate amongst the rates. But she was talking about what I was talking about earlier, the most optimistic place to take that 600 million, not deny these other things, projects, incentives, etc. Which I was talking about because it will be if I can say it in some way and the most painless. So it's painless and safe than going to change the general VAT rate or to this lowest rate of 5%. So we haven't changed it either, but it better remain the lowest that the bread is 5% taxed not to increase it, and to increase these services that are still less, less sensitive than these. So this is a necessary measure. I think it's well measured in relation to what we have, and those tools that we have and what we could do because it still remains. We think that the burden on citizens will not be as great as the effects on the economy should be if we consider not touching what we said earlier. So, you'd better leave without taxing reinvested profits, better leave a lower contribution to health care. These are all measures which, in some ways, give a greater fiscal effect and have a greater impact on the budget. But no, the question here is not just how to charge, how to take as many taxes as possible, how to do the most optimal, how to give these taxes the best effect for the development of the economy without which I repeat, if it doesn't come to it, we won't be able to do it anymore, so we won't be good to either the pensioners, or the employees, or health care, or education, etc. Without a stable development of the economy, it cannot be good for anyone at the level of a personal or social standard. So we think that this is a necessary measure, an optimal measure that will give us the most optimal results and that in the coming years and in the coming years there will be a rate, an increased rate of growth, and then we will no longer have to discuss this, but other elements of tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58365	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58366	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Jelusic, you said nothing would happen in the hospitality of changing this tax rate. If nothing happens in catering, then nothing will happen to the state budget. However, it will also aim to raise the rate from 10% to 13% and figures say that in 2014 only profits will be reduced for hotels of around 280 million kuna and from 2013 to 2020 by a billion and 600 million kuna. Less investment means less employment all in that amount. 280 million kuna is about personal income for over 3,000 tourist employees throughout the year. If we tie up those in the construction sector that are supposed to find their employment by investing in tourism, then these are very large figures and all this says that investing in tourism with such a frequent change of rate and now, in this case, by increasing it creates great uncertainty and uncertainty. And for information from 140 competitive countries, Croatia is 35 places, but according to tax burden 135 places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58367	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58368	Comrade Yurichev, I would have to agree with one part of your data, of course, because the data is data. But you're starting from it as if this reduced rate of catering services, so we've been on food and drink for years, and now suddenly we've taken something away from what people have been used to for years, and that's what the government is taking away. No, until a year ago, we paid 25% for all the services, so food and drink services, up to a year ago. We can look at it that way. And what's going to be 13%? Is that an increase or a decrease? The reduction that, by 12%, is not by 15 this year, but still the reduction. If you lived well with a 25% VAT, then you'll live even better with a 13% VAT. Therefore, I said the hosts are the ones who least need to rebel because they got a 25 to 10% VAT reduction, that they did not lower prices, and whether they went into investments higher, etc. It's hard to talk about. And if they did, there was this part of the tourism industry, hotels, etc. The caterers. So, speaking of cafes and restaurants, I think unfortunately, the biggest part of that VAT that we've reduced last year has been kept to ourselves. For that I don't, and now if it cut them a little by that I wouldn't cry much unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58369	The replica will now be presented by representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Jelusic, so it would be good for a representative to talk about some data to know what he's talking about. So you should know when you talk about hoteling that the hotel rate has been 10% since 2006, so not since last year, but since 2006. And we're talking about the fact that the hotelers who have agreed to the next season already signed contracts for next season a few months ago, you're going to take 280 million kunas from them. In the following year, you will unplannedly take 280 million kunas because they signed the contracts. And the 10% rate in the hotel is in effect not since last year, as you say. It is in other catering activities like you told the cafes and the rest, but the hotel is not. She's been in power since 2006. So you need to know what you're talking about. And when we warn you that in this way you have questioned the business of hotel houses, so the hotel industry that you have put that industry at risk, then you have to accept that reason as a fact and that is the fact. That's what all the hotelers, all the people you ask and talk to will tell you. But you need to know what you're talking about primarily, and not this way of saying that they've been 25 since last year, so they saved 15% saved. It's not true, they had 10%, they had 10%. They're what I'm talking about. Therefore, those 280 million kunas that apply to the hotel will be taken from them without them planning and damageing that branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58371	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58372	I agree with colleague Matušić that it would be good if someone were to say they knew what he was talking about. But it would also be good if someone were replicating to listen to what he used to say. I didn't mention hotels. I was talking about hospitality. I was talking about the caterers. I was saying that the caterers are you who provide food and drink services, that those who are the loudest, I mentioned to the host chief, that they are the loudest and they should be the least loud. That's what I was talking about. So when it comes to the accommodation services you were talking about, I didn't talk about it. And yes, they're really going to increase that's true. But I was talking about those who have in the catering, so not about accommodation services and that part, and there's a good part of them also have catering services, and the good part or most of the business entities don't have accommodation facilities, they don't have these services, they're just catering services, and they're the loudest. I was talking about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58373	New replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelusic seems to me like you are now on this side of the assembly because at a time when the rate is reduced then we were just saying that it will be missing in the budget and that there will probably be no effects for users of services. And you just said right now that you're surprised that the caterers are rebelling, those caterers that you think they haven't done anything in general to cut prices when the rate's down and you don't see why they should be rebelling right now. Just like you said the law changes because there's just no money in the budget. Well, since you spoke on behalf of a majority party club that forms a government I mentioned one thing very tangible to the minister in the replica, so I'm going to ask you the same question. Do you know that APIS holds in its bank accounts non-intentional deposits of 170 million kuna on interest rates from 0.9% to 1.9% on the latest findings of the Office of State Audit? And do you think it would be wise, that it would be fair for Croatian citizens to use those funds that stand there under these poor interest rates if the state audit is right and not raise at least VAT on baby food and children so that you can calm down from these parts? Have you looked enough where there's still money or are we just hitting on citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58375	Answer, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58376	Of course everyone takes what suits him. So, in principle, we are about our tourism and that we have always been to be competitive with countries in our environment that compete with us in a touristic sense. There was therefore a cry of tourism economy and a caterer that in the part of providing food and drink services they were not competitive and that they were looking for that rate, not the highest, or general rate. That it's not common in the countries of our competition. And we respected that appeal. Now we have not returned the VAT to the general rate but only increased that rate, but not only to them, but to all of them still have a reduced rate of 13% not a general rate. Therefore, they are not now more cut off by this measure than the other part of the economy. We could also stimulate the wood industry or some other, no, we said tourism because tourism is a branch to invest in. But as much as you can. So, no more than you can do. Finally, the part of the tourism industry as well as the rest of the economy got a relief on reinvested profits. All that the reduced VAT last year has earned them some reinvestment will not be taxed. And on that side they'll get. So we stimulate them in two ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58377	Now we'll hear the replica of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Jelusic's only truth for 10% of the VAT on hotelers was introduced on 1.01.2006 and was announced to them in autumn 2005. And you mentioned the hoteliers, you can look at the phonogram, and it doesn't matter at all, and everything that you've been counting on that wouldn't be reduced you shouldn't just cut the tax on text messages and everything... could satisfy it. The truth works and nothing else, no intention of politicizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58379	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic? Nothing. Then we'll hear the replica of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you listed the supposed good measures of Croatian economic policy by the Croatian government, which, as you said, helped, for example, not to increase the decline last year, and that this year too will not be greater than 0.7 or I don't know how much of the GDP you said. By keeping such a logic that without professional indicators, without some professional valorisation, you define the measures of the Croatian government, it could be said in fact that there may not have been any for the government to achieve its macroeconomic objectives, which is that in 2012, GDP growth will be 2%, and this year will be 1.8%. In the same way that we argue about good economic policy measures without professional indicators, without the right indicators, we can conclude, therefore, that the government has not taken any measures, perhaps it would have met the planned objectives and failed to meet them. That you know well that instead of growth 2% was 1.8% and that this year instead of 1.8% will be 0.7%. And as you said, good measures. However, among these measures, you did not highlight one measure also mentioned by the finance minister during the morning, which is the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion settlement. So to avoid this measure, we would also have mysteriousd how good it is, how good it would be if the Ministry of Finance had introduced us to the achievements of this law, Mr. Minister, to see how many entrepreneurs came out of the crisis through this law, how many countries she forgave to whom she was an entrepreneur. Because if we had the strength to publish a pillar of the shame of taxpayers, it would be good to publish a list of those taxpayers who had the opportunity to forgive them through this law, or how many small entrepreneurs, the creditors of these same entrepreneurs, for this reason, had no significant means to ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58381	Thank you. The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58382	We could not change our economic policy and leave all the laws that were valid during your government, that is correct and I am convinced that we would have at least 3% of the economic downturn this year and last year. You forget that since the crisis started in 2008, about 11%, 10 percent of the economic downturn that we had is 9% of the decline that is the result of your government's work. So we could go on as you did and now we'd have a much bigger fall. We'd still have citizens trapped with loans in Swiss francs like they've been since your policy was, we'd be in charge of maybe 10 billion more every year, and that's your policy because you're like yourself. The last year of 2011, you owe 25 billion to the true God ours will be... but that's still the difference of 9 billion. Nine billion... is big money. So we could continue your policy then we'd be even worse just then we wouldn't be SDP, we'd be HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58383	The last replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58384	Thank you very much. You said that it would be good if those who speak knew what they were talking about, I would add to that when they speak on behalf of the club especially because you undisputedly said that those 25% also applied to the hotelers. And again we explain what it means and why the hoteliers rebel, don't object to the caterers. No, they made good money last year, but the state lost. And competitiveness in that segment because prices remained the same or higher with a reduced VAT rate that is true. Remember what was said about the 8th month. The minister himself said that we threw 3 billion into the wind, and now we're doing another bad thing, that what was the income of tourism every hotel house, and it makes almost 80% of their income, it's been since 2006. 10% and we raise that by 3 percentage points, which is why they're complaining. Why? Because all our competing countries in the Mediterranean have 10 and less. France has 5.5%. When did they bring her in? 2009. What was the effect? In the first year, they lost 2.5 billion euros but earned 5.8 billion euros more in the 2rd and 3rd years of implementation. And that's why we said today we haven't yet established the effect of this rate because it lasted only 9 or 10 months of this approach on catering services. only 10 months, and has been announced as the most important long-term measure of this government that must boost competitiveness. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58385	Answer Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58386	Of course, in the part where tourist companies had the hospitality that they had in that part last year if they could say extraordinary income on the name of profit tax cuts from 25 to 10% and they didn't plan it on their plans last year, they didn't know it was going to happen. No law has been passed. Therefore, this year 2013 on behalf of the reduction in the rate of hospitality when it comes to the preparation of food and drink really went well, this current year. The next year will also go well much better than the previous but not for 13 index points than for 10 index points or 12 index points before 15. Therefore, this is not about returning VAT to hospitality at a general rate of 25% but still remains a step in the way everyone else who has an inter-step will have. And since you said that this is the highest rate, it's not this rate of 13% is somewhere at the average EU rate of at least 9, 10 countries have there somewhere like us or the larger rate. So we're on average. We are not here and with a cross-match among the highest in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58387	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, a respected colleague, Kresimir Bubalo, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58388	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Namely, by reading this law, we see policies but we see debates both by the HDZ and by the SDP and other policy options and by looking at policies that are read out of this and that is just one of the items in the budget or one item in the state budget. What happens next week when the budget comes? But what matters is that all policies are seen right in the state budget and so is the increase in VAT. One will say that the increase in VAT is 3% of the other will say that it is a hack over the hacks, but it is always important to have discussions on the figures and looking at this material that we have received then there is only one figure that new approximately 600 million kunas will be incomed here. But looking at our changing tax system, which is here every few months, it certainly is not good. And there is always a need for thorough debate, a number-based debate, based on facts but also forecasts. We often miss them in Croatia's forecasting policy for the next period. We have some strategies but also a plan, next 2014, '15 and '16. And looking at that plan, we see an increase in both the revenue and the expenditure side of the budget. And I'm sure that's what's worrying us because looking at the revenue side, there's no longer a chance that our citizens can withstand additional charges, extra taxes. But what needs to be a focus, sure to be a focus, sure to be the focus of reducing the expenditure side. And there are a lot of places in the budget where it can be reduced. While watching the wanderings we have and the analyses we have but also the VAT in tourism rising from 10 to 13%, seeing if the effect was obtained when the VAT was cut, we didn't, we didn't feel it on the ground, we didn't feel that some of the hosts were reducing prices, but they remained the same. Therefore, they did not feel a significant reduction in VAT. That's what I expect at these prices won't see so much now. But whether Croatian tourism will be competitive on the European and world markets I estimate it will be less competitive precisely because of these prices. But to make a move and reduce VAT in agriculture, i.e. to agricultural products, to food, surely to be felt by all our citizens and also by hotelers. Therefore, our focus should be an aprior social state. But what our fellow citizens would feel, which is energy, these are food prices. And what it takes for a consumer basket to be pushed out in one month and on a daily basis, looking at pre-bank conditions, bankruptcy, looking at the consumer power of our citizens, is sure to be very important questions about the price of food for children, complete food, but also the energy products to which the majority of our citizens' consumer basket is going. This should be the focus of our discussions on how to create a social state, how to provide the possibility for our citizens to live more easily. But looking at the 2014 planning period, 2016 and forecasting the country's deficit, and we know this year that it was a 10.2 billion deficit plan, it will be around 17 billion and listening to a colleague named Vuksic when he spoke SDP=HDZ, that graphite. So I have a chance to see the SDP and HDZ coalition in the city of Osijek, the only plan for the 2014 budget is to assign the city of Osijek to the limit. So looking at the deficit that Minister Linic mentioned that it was 64 billion kuna in that four-year period but also assessing that the deficit in this period would be around 71, 72 billion kuna then we can even say that SDP is not equal to HDZ, however, it will exceed the four-year deficit period and that is what is not good. This alarmingly suggests that the expenditure side of the budget must be reduced and the cuts must be drawn, that it must affect costs in all segments of state life, as well as expenditure in individual ministries. But also listening just before Minister Linic, I expected the extra-board VAT to be introduced. Looking at what's happening in our tourism, looking at numbers, looking at predictions and our environment, then we can say that this VAT will affect the reduction of competitiveness. Croatia is beautiful, Croatia has infrastructure, but also in price competitiveness we are not very competitive with other markets. But what worries me as a man from Osijek, a man from Slavonia and Baranja is that I often see the Emotional but also Slavons and Baranjas go through... bridge, to cross the border and buy Croatian products at cheaper prices than they can buy in Osijek and in other parts of our beautiful, that is the problem of our manufacturers, that is the problem of our consumer basket and that is the problem of living in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what's not good. Because seeing as our product can be cheaper in neighbouring countries, that's worrying. And that we have columns at the borders of our people to go to Serbia and other countries that are also worrying. Therefore, tax policies must be harmonised especially when talking about a consumer basket. What we often feel in conversations with our producers. I'm not talking about hotelers right now. I'm talking about manufacturers. Energy prices picked up significantly last year. We have a bill of payment that is not respected. He doesn't pay the state or everyone else within 60 days. These are issues with such a deficit that the state has failed to bring currency, state and state-owned enterprises and public systems into the currency for 60 days. Then it would certainly be easier for our producers, easier to serve their obligations when we speak from the big ones to the small ones. While looking at the topics that are mentioned, it's parafiscal intrusions, there's no reduction. And that's why by looking at our producers, what they're meeting and losing the game, we're assessing that they're going to be getting harder if they don't go into radical reduction, I'm still talking about spending sides. Also looking at article 38 and 48, so I might start from article 48, VAT payments are released, there are a whole series of things, but gold deliveries to central banks. Well, it's with gold that they'll feel our fellow citizens, they won't feel it. But we are also particularly concerned when we talk about child food, and there we need to find a place in the budget on the spending side to reduce the expenditure side and yet to give us the opportunity to have a VAT zero or no child food. Because just looking at the demographic picture and who will be working tomorrow in Croatia, creating a family in Croatia but also moving out of Croatia is the problem that awaits us and that we must meet already today. Minister Linic certainly works hard but Minister Linic charges what goes to the state register. But those creators are also needed, especially those four ministries that are important to spend their part of the budget because looking at the use of 36 were poor use, and that is exactly the creative part of the budget that develops and promotes the economy. This part should be stronger, it should create the very part of the economy stronger, but also predict what will happen to Croatia in the next period. And we felt good about entering the European Union and today's law, when we talk about free zones that are no longer competitive, when we talk about what Dr Buric just said we need to have a strategy and regional development so that we can prepare projects for the 2014-2020 period, although the local administration units will not have the strength to participate and finance those projects. This is what we will feel now in Osijek on a project of collectors where the project weighs 72m euros. We had a letter from Minister Jakovina that you will participate 9.9 plus the Ministry of Finance 9.9% in the project, I expect it to be so because there will not be enough capacity from the local administration units to withdraw those funds that are important to us both for the development of Slavonia and Baranja and for the development of Croatia. But also looking at investment, it was just before that investment was said to be cut, but we in Slavonia and Baranja can say that the weak investment has come into our premises, and there are but let's give at least to multiple funds when we talk about European funds, so that we can finance these projects. When we talk about both the income and the expenditure side, when we talk about VAT, it's an important part of the budget, but today we're going to talk about PPDS and just underdeveloped spaces, so we need to lead a policy of uniform regional development, and that's our priority when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja. But looking at these changes that we today have the opportunity to see in this final proposal of the HDSSB law is against, i.e. We do not see what is important to us for Slavonia and Baranja, we do not see especially when we talk about food and those basic living conditions and the consumption basket. Therefore, we will not support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58389	We have 8 replicas reported, but we don't have time for them now, so we'll hear them at 3:00. I'm announcing a break. Bon appetit. It's 13,21 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58390	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Replica Igor Radjenović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58391	Thank you, Vice President. Here's me playing a thankless role in starting the first afternoon, and that's what Mr. Bubalo said two hours ago. But good. What's generally bothering me in your debate, colleague Bubalo, is that you mentioned more than once we need to cut expenditures, we need to cut expenditures. However, you have not said once what expenditures should be reduced and how much they should be reduced. That's what I'd like to hear, otherwise I'd like to hear it. As far as I'm concerned, things are the most mentioned in your debates before. The most frequently mentioned, therefore, decides to collect certain products. So for the sake of truth, the public works should be told that at the beginning of this government's mandate the food and catering services were 25% VAT, now it will be 13. The same applies to edible oils and fats, to children's food and processed food, to the supply of water, other than water that goes to the market, to white sugar and sugar tail, to concert tickets, to magazines for culture and art. So on all these products at the beginning of this government's value added tax was 25%, in these few months it was 10%. Now it's going to be 13. So 12 percentage points less than at first. So, all these products, I'm saying the most you talked about is baby food. The tax will be lower than it was when the government took over. The only thing that changes and grows is this tax on organized hotel services. But we must have, we must consider the following. The tax is growing 3%, but a good share of the hotel's income is from catering services. So it kind of fits. But most importantly, in a series of measures discharging businessmen, the most important measures reinvested profits. The main problem of our tourism is the relatively low categorization of our facilities. Therefore, all that reinvests in profit tax is zero. Calculate how much that means and let all the hotelers calculate and see from this year. Therefore, the measure is also not against the hotelers, i.e. The overall government policy is not a counter-hospital and hotel activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58392	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58393	Thank you very much. My colleague Rajedinović, I believe you're in the way of my debate, and that just means we're on a good track. But when you mention the spending side, there are few of those positions in the budget that could not be reduced when we start from phone costs to cars to various agencies, there is almost no position in the budget that could not be heated and reduced costs. But you also mention an increase in what happens to VAT. You'll say only 3%. These might say it's 30% from the base, but it's an apparent increase. But when we talk about children, when we talk about children's food, then we should certainly look at it to be zero and certainly there's plenty of space on the budget. But when you talk about reinvested profits, so often in the conversation with our producers, with people who produce especially in Slavonia and Baranja, so that we don't talk about farmers they almost don't get you and it's visible in the budget, and also in the rebalancing of how much the plan was projection and how much less profits. But that's exactly what you get when you look at the National Bank report the good part and get is just about a banking system that's not touched. So when we talk about manufacturers, there's nothing to invest because it's almost too little. Speaking of farmers, that's nothing. So I'm just saying that this debate was on the right track, and thank you very much for bothering you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58394	Thank you. Next replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58395	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague of mine you said that we should definitely find a place on the expense side to cut VAT, especially when we talk about products for children in our national policy. I've given myself a little effort, so on the trail of what the minister always says, don't be a critic without, no, you don't have a solution. I think we'd like these 600 and so many million as it now brings us this 3% increase in, say, the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, where a 670 million-dollar item is planned for next year for dealing with specific categories of waste. And here, the Republic of Croatia is the only country in the environment that handles its special, categories of special waste in this way by paying these 670 million kunas to entrepreneurs, privates who then regularly earn that waste once again by selling that same waste, and I think that here we are on a good track to say we're going to make a new policy of dealing with hazardous waste, squirming 670 million and this tax that we think is raised 3% possibly on 10%. And besides the Fund for the second year, it is also planned that the state budget will be paid around nearly 200 million kuna, which is probably a good reason to think about it and pay serious attention to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58396	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58397	Thank you very much. My colleague Nancy, namely when we talk about the spending side, there's almost no point where it can't be cut. So there are a lot of these items in the budget that can be cut. But I did not say in my debate that these 600 million related to tourism should be found, but I was talking about food for children where we propose to find it on the spending side, to make this shift when we talk about the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia. But it is evident that in the coming years, we cannot realistically expect an increase in both income and expenditure, which is a planned projection. In fact, we have to do the spending side not only when we're talking about the state budget, but to the local administration units because it's until 2008. Croatia recorded a growth plan for income and expenditure, while at the same time falling by 10%. So that's inadmissible. We are at the same time as the drop all rises in costs. Therefore, there is plenty of space on the spending side and there is a need to cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58398	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica. He's gone. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58399	Thank you very much. You told your colleague, Bubalo, in your debate, that approximately 600 million kunas will be received from an increase in VAT rates from 10 to 13%, that's what it says in the explanation. Well, he won't be around, I'm afraid. 600 million kunas of revenue cannot be achieved because economic growth cannot be realised, unfortunately. Let's say today it was on the parent board that the rebalancing of this year's budget is still scheduled for economic growth of 0.2%. Based on what? Nothing. Based on superficial analysis and unrealistic assumptions. And on the basis of wrong and superficial analyses and unrealistic assumptions, only wrong conclusions can be made. And in the theory of decision-making, it is known that it can be decided on the basis of research and analysis by intuition, experimentation and experience. This government has chosen, when it comes to tax policy, a combination of intuition and experimentation. Which is the most expensive and most devastating model. Intuitively, no problem can be diagnosed, and no solution can be found by experimenting. And that's the only way to create a tax framework like a maze they don't know how to find a way out of. They keep changing direction and always the wrong way out. Therefore, the measures taken are not in Croatia's interest but in the interest of some special groups that view the country as prey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58400	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58402	Excuse me, Comrade Bačić, here's your colleague, Bubalo. I didn't see the tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58403	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, at first I answered right away. Of course I want to talk to my colleague Maric. It says something in the material. So when something writes around me, I think it's unargumented, and we need to draw conclusions based on analysis, based on numbers, not on something. There is no growth, and therefore this rebalancing is unfounded. But there is a visible deficit that will be at the level of 17 billion. I always wonder, when you talk about research, analysis and intuition and experience, why did HDZ decide on a coalition with the SDP in the city of Osijek? Based on intuition and experience, analysis or research? When we talk about the maze, you said it nicely, I'd say there's always one way out of the maze, and here the only way out is to cut the expense side, and I'm afraid this government is in a tunnel that hasn't yet been dug out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58404	Replica, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Bubalo in your statement that Minister Linic is trying to do something, but that there is a lack of creation in 4 other ministries and the absence of this creation is also seen in the absence of investments in Croatia. You know that this House has passed a Law on Strategic Investment Projects that should have been implemented slowly already seems to me by creating that list of strategic investment projects. But there's still nothing of it, not only of it, but there's nothing of the investments that this government inherited. So, at this point, the realisation of the project of the construction of Zagreb Airport was already needed, and due to numerous concerns, due to numerous ignorances, I would say the necessary knowledge for the construction of the airport today we have witnessed that in Zagreb Airport employees are being striked, that air traffic has been blocked, and that is precisely at an airport where this government and the former government have established a project of construction and arrangements that should have already gone into realisation. So, what do you expect, what kind of creation from ministers who can't even create existing projects that are well designed for which contracts are signed can't be realised?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58406	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58407	Thank you very much. I did say that Mr. Linic is trying and trying to believe like everyone else in the IRS, and they're making debts, there's nothing to be done. But when we talk about these four other ministries, I have to say they're trying very hard, and that's best seen from the budget. So, they're not trying. But when we talk about investment, and not only foreign but also domestic, they've been falling since 2008. Every year in an ever-increasing fall. Therefore, a Strategic Investment Act has been passed, and it is likely to be suitable for some tycoons and capitalists to invest over 20m euros. But you mentioned the Zagreb Airport in which the strike took place. But in a year you can't conduct a tender for Osijek Airport. I'm even more worried about that. So, you can't implement projects and it's even harder to get to foreign investors. Well, I remember the other day when Minister Vrdoljak was called that he went to London, that he spent his journals for nothing. I said at that point let's wait for him to come back. He's back and we haven't seen a single investment since he left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58408	Thank you. Replica, Josip Bencic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bubalo, forgive me for turning my back on you, but I would refer to one of your remarks, in fact you quoted a respected colleague, Vuksic, as saying that SDP is equal to HDZ. What did I do wrong? That SDP is equal to HDZ. Speaking of tax policy, it's just not true. It's actually here I can say one mantra of you and your colleagues isn't now important perhaps even at this point you keep repeating it and think if enough times you repeat that it's true. Normally, in these two minutes what separates us all from HDZ and Mr. Linic has spent a lot of time saying why these budgets are different from those before but let's not forget that this government led with Mr. Linic has put order in the business of public or state-owned enterprises. Let's just remember how many non-payment days there have been in health care. You referred to not fulfilling this obligation of ours as we said it would be 60 days of payment. It will be because it is clear that anyone who does not comply with the 60 - day deadline will answer for it. And here we can do a little bit if for a change we can say about fiscalization. The HDZ ranks, when the project began, heard a series of remarks organised that it would not succeed even to some technical ones. But here's the fiscalisation is one of the best projects that puts order into public finances. Tax revenues do not fall among other things and therefore. So I'm saying you don't have to keep saying that SDP=HDZ is it just isn't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58410	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Bug.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58411	Thank you very much. My colleague Bencic doesn't mind I turned my back on you but I did say if a colleague had just been told in his debate SDP=HDZ. In Osijek, I see a coalition of SDP and HDZ and even the HNS and others, and the policy is that next year they will be in debt to the limit. And what I was comparing in my presentation was I was talking about the deficit. Minister Linic said the HDZ made 64 billion in 4 years and based on the government's assessment and forecasting... that the SDP will make 71 billion deficits. So you can even see inequality. But when we talk about borrowing and deficit policy, there's SDP=HDZ. But what's important for our citizens is to talk about the results, the results of getting out of the crisis. They're obviously not here. A little while ago, you mentioned health care and payment deadlines. The payment period shall not be effected within 60 days. Call the pharmaceutical houses today and you'll see they're paying within 180 days from the Department of Health. I didn't call anyone, but I asked the Minister and Prime Minister clearly the other day, who was being punished in the Republic of Croatia, so when we start from the public systems departments further than he didn't pay in 60 days, there's no such thing. And fiscalization is something normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58412	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bubalo, you said the citizens didn't feel a reduction in VAT rates for hospitality. So look, too, even entrepreneurs didn't feel a 2% reduction in health contributions, and neither in the investment climate or an increase in investment, they didn't feel the elimination of a special tax on SMS messages, but it's all very expensive when you add it up somewhere about 3 billion 200 million on the revenue side of the budget, and now it's a logical thing if nobody felt it was one wrong measure. However, when you take a closer look at and implement the budget, especially now the budget rebalance, then you will see that nearly a billion kuna has been removed from the economic ministries. Among other things, the Ministry of Agriculture 280 last year 700 and another million kuna. and I tried to pull a parallel between what happened with the VAT reduction in hospitality not in tourism, tourism has long been reduced to 10% by VAT, but by the hospitality and what is happening in the Ministry of Agriculture. And does that really remind you that we have reduced VAT in tourism to those rich who come to the Adriatic, and at the same time we have taken money from the Slavonian peasant is that fact? So we can talk whatever we want now because what logic is it to reduce catering services to 10%? It doesn't make any sense, but that's how we broke out 2 billion and some more kunas out of our pockets. If the measure had been so great and so good for the economy, they would not have changed after three months. Then because of one wrong measure, it now costs a complete tourist sect and suffers those who are the most endangered and are the poorest and the children because some basic supplies are rising from 10 to 13. And like I said, it's not that for 3%, it's 30% or 3 percentage points.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58414	Thank you. We have a colleague Bubalo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58415	Thank you very much. In fact, citizens felt an increase in VAT from 23% to 25% but didn't feel that when they went for coffee, it reduced their price of coffee. But it is evident that there are wandering around in tax policy but you also talked about manufacturers. Well, one only producer in Osijek is only at the price of energy, which is called steam, which has raised 130%. It was almost a million euros for him to raise the price of money. Well, they felt pretty good and our producers weren't competitive then. But you also mentioned these four ministries that are cut into rebalancing. Well, they cut because they didn't spend the funds, but that means one not working in those ministries, and that means that part of the creative budget that wasn't spent. Just before I talked about the expense side, we can twist the finger almost into any segment that can be cut. You talked about tourism and about peasants, I touched on food and agricultural producers, which reduced incentives in the past years and based on which the calculations and business plans they did were in debt and today cannot repay loans. it is our problem in Slavonia and Baranja, but Slavonia and Baranja did not feel when we talk about reducing this which was VAT for tourism nothing. But if the VAT was reduced to food, they'd feel pretty good about it. But the attitude when we talk about children and when we talk about food, we think in the HDSSB that there should be a VAT zero, and on the spending side you can find and there is space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58416	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58417	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'm saying about this, I think this is the worst law we can make, that this is one long-term, one of the worst decisions this government has made since raising the VAT from 23% to 25%. And worse still, unfair. Completely unfair, so I'm going to try and prove it, prove it, even though it may not matter to the executive authority, and it doesn't matter. For one short-term goal, which is to fill the budget in 2014 we are long-term creating inconceivable consequences and an inconceivable problem. And he is not only inconceivable, he does not, such a decision is not supported by any analysis except that the hotelers clearly and loudly showed and proved what this and such a decision on the 13% interdepartment means for their increase. We are by competitiveness in tourism 35 countries out of 140 in the world and by tax burden 135 out of 140. So now let us apply this law to what I said, where in 2014 we will be competitive in tourism and where we will be at tax burden. It is clear to all and this normal state arrangement and work to attract investors and retain stable operating conditions and tax rates. In our case, these unstable operating conditions, especially this tax press, rejects the same investors and what we have are forcing them to leave this country. There were attempts during the day to minorize it, and there was talk of something especially on the side of the SDP and it tried to explain this unpopular measure in an entirely wrong way. But when we remember in 2006, Croatian tourism in 2006 had a problem and a problem was noticed. And a decision was made on the basis of the 2005 indicators when tourism was in no way able to start regardless of the infrastructure and everything else that the state was doing that required stronger activity in that segment. And then it was decided in 2005 that with 1.1.2006. VAT on accommodation services with 22% come in between 10%. It was a rock that triggered tourism. 2007 first results, 2008 record year in tourism. The crisis, recession in 2009, tourism survives with slightly weaker results but goes on, race and number of nights. And in 2013 continuously regardless of the crisis we have in this segment the growth of nights, we have certain activities that ministers also like to boast about when the season is. And who no doubt have a major impact on the state budget. And it was to be expected that when we discussed the tourism development strategy by 2020 with the 2025 projections that the tourism minister explained as the most important strategic document of this government, the long-term one that has to do with everything it writes, with a lot of amendments to the law, with all the activities and on privatisation and on investment and everything that the state has to do to make that sector work in 2020 as it is written. And I'll remind you of 20 billion euros. And where nowhere did it say that this same government in that same year that brings the strategy will raise the reduced VAT by 3% points. But not only those catering services now, which have been reduced from 25 to 10, but also for accommodation services that have been 10% since 2006. And that's where the stones come in. Why? Because we're going to fall at the competitiveness line, for sure in competitiveness compared to the other countries we're trying to compete with, maybe that's a rough word, but do everything we can to be as competitive as possible. What can we conclude? Put the strategy out of force. No goal from it can be achieved anymore. Why? Because the Minister of Tourism has not said a single sentence on this issue. He doesn't care, he hides somewhere, and he doesn't care about the sector he runs, he leaves it to the Ministry of Finance. We didn't expect that from him. Because he's still out there running that sector. And that we at least got in the 2014 budget such compensation in that sector, that the tourism ministry got 50 million more if we're going to take 300 million in cash. They were cut off by the tourism ministry by another 50 million kuna, the same government, the same Ministry of Finance, and the tourism minister said nothing again. It's good for him and it's long-term projections for 100 million kunas in three years. Do we even need the Ministry of Tourism? Maybe it's best if we shut him down. He's in no condition to stand in the way of the Ministry of Finance whatever it is he's doing. The minister has no voice. And when we know that there's a procedure and another law where the state inspectorate is going to grow, where the Ministry of Finance wants to take employees in a way that controls and catering activity, not finance, activity, we're in trouble. Who's the Minister of Tourism in this government? Who's the Minister of Tourism in this government? And we know that this year has also achieved 70 million nights, 11.5 million arrivals by tourists. I come from Rab Island. We have an Imperial tourist company owned by the state. One decent state-owned company that has been earning profits for years is paying an orderly 300 salaries for its employees, in the 500 season, all payments show profits at the end of the year, pay taxes on profits to this country whose income in 8 years has increased from 70 to 115 million kuna, which has renewed its facilities, with such a move remain without anywhere projected between 2.5 million kuna and 3 million kuna. In order to achieve the financial result in 2014, they have only two choices, raised accommodation prices and become even more uncompetitive or fired one part of the workers, 30 of them, as much as it costs about 3 million kuna. It's a doubt. Those who agree to this should be aware that tourism is not only an Imperial, we have a house in the entire Adriatic and that everything will be in the same doubt. The question is whether the state budget will be achieved on the basis of the increase in these 3 percentage points of revenue as projected. It's a question. It's also projected to 2 percentage points at the general rate of 25% that it's going to be more, so we see that it's less than expected. And when we compare it to a 5% rate, it's for newspapers that come out daily. The most important economic activity to be strongly encouraged in the Republic of Croatia is the publication of daily newspapers. Why does the government want that? We want to be beautifully written about us in 2014, especially in pre-election 2015, because we have made it possible for you to get through the notes, which, at this rate, will make you a quality newspaper. Is that true? Are the newspapers sold for 5% or 10%? Is their income growing or falling because of those rates or because of what is written in them and the way in which they are written? That is why it is incomprehensible that we have touched on what is good in the short term to achieve some income, but we will long-term create the consequences that we hope to discuss next year when we count what happened to us in the tourist season, when we may also discuss other budget rebalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58418	Thank you. We have replicas. Joseph Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, here and several times there has been a word of the tax press, and I don't know if I am insulting you now, do you hear or want to hear just what you want to hear? Minister Linic has been talking all morning about which tax other than VAT has been raised by the government. What tax press are you talking about? Are you talking about that press release we released 2.5 billion on the income side for contributions? Are you talking about the tax press about reinvesting profits? So each of those catering companies that you, hotels can invest, and 20% of the taxes will be released. Minister Linic made it clear and loud who wants to bear the burden because he does not run away from it, he does not run away from it. He said nicely who would bear the burden, that it would be borne by the citizens. But I ask you one more time, other than VAT, do you remember any more taxes that are tax presses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58420	Thank you, too. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58421	A fellow Bencic, then income tax, excise tax, and that's taxes. If there's one that's been reduced, I don't remember. We haven't cut any, they're only bigger, you want coffee, tobacco, alcoholic beverages, energy, gasoline, which I know more than anything else. Tax on capital gains...... /Buka in hall./... Is someone cheap, so I didn't see it. I'm sorry, but it's getting more expensive, and the state in those excise duties must be paying for them again, and who's gonna pay for them. ... What aren't taxes? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, they're not, then they're excises. The citizens are paying again. He says there's a reinvestment. How is he going to reinvest, there's less, there's 3 million, this house has 3 million less, what should I reinvest? There's less income. To be in charge, to guarantee it, so don't take it too easy. Well, people wouldn't complain if this were good for them, if this were good for them. It's no use to them. That's why we're in opposition to warn you about it. I know that when the SDP was in opposition in 2006, when a 10% VAT was introduced, you know how much they suggested? What my colleague Anticevic said, she's not here, but I'll say, 6% would be great. 6% of the rates for accommodation services. And today it's 13, nobody's saying anything, and then 13 is great, and I'm saying it's not, that it's long-term creating uncompetitive tourism and that all tourist companies are going to do less business, it's going to have less money, and it's going to fire workers. And what you're interpreting is that you've given them benefit, we also see at the Employment Service how this huge number of tourism employees happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58422	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When a decision was made in 2005 to reduce the overall rate from 22% then a clear assessment was made of how much less revenue in the budget would be made and it was a clear goal of what it wanted to achieve, investment in the hotel industry. See what the situation was then, what is the situation today, and how everyone likes to boast about the great tourist seasons. But then someone under pressure made a mistake that, to be clear in the Ministry of Finance, was constantly asked to reduce the same to 10% in the catering. However, it did not simply agree to this for a simple reason that there are no reasons for this. However, someone agreed to it and the state budget was mutilated for about 2 billion kuna. And now three months later, when you simply saw that certain tax moves didn't give the results they had just had to admit the mistake and try to bring things back to normal. But it's hard to admit a mistake and then let's do another early bird. Let's go up everything by three percentage points or 30%, from 10 to 13 is a 30% increase. And now, look, what was the objective of the imperative, this process has not yet completed the renovation and construction of the hotel and investment in hotel facilities in the Republic of Croatia is now being a team, to that industry, to say, taking about 280,300 million a year. So now take it that these are credit annuities that have been raised to 10 years how many loans could have been raised, which is how many accommodation facilities should have been made. It's the same story as that famous one-time tax that lasted a few months, 5% on yachts. It is very interesting for foreigners to be given 5% of their yachts, and newly, we are all members of the EU, they are there, by such and such rules. If they don't like it, they'll go to Montenegro or more and that's that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58424	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58425	Comrade Shuker, the Ministry of Finance wouldn't do that analysis because we're here to discuss all the laws without any analysis, we're running day-to-day politics. And if we miss it by 31.12 today, we'll make that decision to fill something by 31.12. And what happens in 2015 or 16 we don't care. But someone else made it, hotelers say, "In the period from 2014 to 2020, the state budget could generate around 1.6 billion kuna from an increased VAT rate." But in the same period, the budget will be poored by a minimum of 2.8 billion kuna due to the remaining investments on the following basis. 1.2 billion kuna tax and contribution to supplier's salary for investment projects. The construction sector, which is the main supplier for investment in buildings and tourism facilities, spends about 45% of its income on employees' salaries. 520 million kuna less taxes and salary contributions in the hotel industry from the base of the absence of new incomes in which labour costs participate with around 20%. 1.1 billion kunas of increased budget expenditure for unemployment benefits in the construction and tourism sectors due to the remaining investments based on the estimated number of employees, given investments of 6 and a half billion kuna and new revenues of more than 6 billion kuna. The absence of these investments means directly 4 and a half to 7,000 jobs less in the construction sector each year, and 5 and a half thousand less in tourism in 2020, and consequently in all sectors directly or indirectly engaged in tourism. It's an analysis of a law like this. Those who do so have done so. It's not made up, it's all very well supported by real numbers, their incomes and their expenses. So if we're ready, gentlemen, here, raise your hand and do what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58426	Thank you. Replica Ivan Klarin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric, you said at the beginning of your debate that this was one of the worst laws passed by the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's for the section believe it or not. It's the same section as the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy in Rijeka from Labour. That's the same thing, for me it's a section believe it or not. But okay, I'm going back to the law. For me, Mr. Boric, the worst law that could have been passed in this Croatian Parliament two years ago when the HDZ government passed the Law amending the income tax rate. I've talked about it more than once. Then a billion kunas were taken from the local government and from your city and from my municipality and other cities. So, what did we do with that money? Co-financed by the tourist sector of souvenir shops, catering facilities in the rural part of our municipality, etc. So, when you're talking about that analysis you've been reading now, I think it's an analysis of the Association of Employers in the hotel industry. Who guarantees it's an accurate analysis? Is that an analysis of those who are interested? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58428	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58429	Me and Klarin, of course it's an analysis of those who are interested. And whose is it supposed to be? Retirement organizations. Well, if the government had been laid down then the tourism minister wouldn't have allowed such aggression on his portfolio. The finance minister is modernizing health, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Tourism. And I said they want to control how tourist activity is carried out in hotel and private accommodation. Well, that's embarrassing. Why do they care at the Ministry of Finance? Let them control the finances, but let those who are engaged in the catering work release the Ministry of Tourism. The Minister of Tourism cannot be imposed at all by the Minister of Finance, nor does he listen to him, because he would not allow this and would not allow such a bill to undo everything he writes in the Tourism Development Strategy. But another minister who knew how to impose was removed because he knew what tourism meant for this country. And he knew a lot and he had to go. And unfortunately, that's the only real truth. And that's why we'll all be, I guess, given God alive next year so we can see the effects of these measures. And I'm sorry it lasted only 11 months and no one did any analysis of those effects. But you're very eager to defend everything that's served you because it's the only interest of the executive, I guess, that everything has to be the way she thinks it is, because everyone else knows nothing, and I think we know it. We know a lot more, and we need to be listened to sometimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58430	Thank you. Ante Jerolimov, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58431	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke about an analysis that was made in 2004, and said that the government then adopted one measure in 2006 that simply saved tourism and reduced it from 22% of VAT to 10%. It is precisely the measure that allowed tourism to be competitive, to achieve better results every year. And today we are aware that we have 70 million overnight stays in Croatia. On the contrary, what's going on with this VAT-lifting measure? That competitiveness is at least as you yourself said questioned. Directly taken by hotel houses, 280 million kunas are from the pocket, and some concepts are being chased here. Tourist and hotel homes are currently housed 90% of the income, 10% of the income is from hospitality. Of course, these 280 million individuals here are justifying that they can be reinvested so that they will be tax-free, but who is normal in this country or in any one branch where three times in a year the rules change three times a year, where taxes change three times a year? I don't think of your Rab or my coal where the specialized facilities are so they don't find one. And we also know what's most dangerous for an investment. The most dangerous is uncertainty, the most common are changes and uncertainty, some wandering and grumbling, and that is what is the biggest enemy of investors and the reason why there is no investment, and when there is no investment, there are no new jobs. And when there are no new jobs, then there's no economic growth, and that's what we certainly need most at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58432	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58433	That's right, fellow Jerolimov. I think we come from the island from the tourist environments and we from the island don't look the same as those from Zagreb. They're sitting in the office and the evaluations, we're short 500 million kunas. Go ahead and take it there in Dalmatia 500 million kunas and good-bye. And there's not much to talk about. And how will they live? And they say citizens will pay for everything. They have to pay, who's gonna pay? Unfortunately, I have explained how much has been taken from these citizens in the past two years by all price increases, energy, reduced wages, the average family to a three-member, four-member somewhere around nine thousand kuna. Which is multiplied by the number of families and four years gives you an amount of about 35 billion kuna. That's the facts. But we're still a country that won't achieve any goals. We're not going to cut the deficit, we're not going to cut the public debt, everything we're saying, we're not going to reduce unemployment, we're going to spend 500, 600 billion kuna in four years, and we might be at the level of 2011. Because here, as we say, will be the decline in GDP, last year 2%, this year 1% compared to last year's decline and 2%. So, compared to 2011, we fell 3%. To get to '11. In 2015 and 2014, we need to achieve minimal growth to be at the same level. So we spend money, as the state goes back, we don't achieve the goals set, and then we film tourism as a successful branch, we go now to react in that segment because we've made the wrong decisions. Where do we end up? I don't think it will be good for Croatian tourism and Croatian tourist workers must prepare for a difficult tourist season that follows us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58434	Thank you. And the last replica, Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, I did not expect you as part of the opposition to praise these measures, but I would ask you to help me get the right attitude in which your party and you are in positions. Because in front of your club Mr. exhibitor said it would be better if we went to this reduction towards agriculture than here in tourism. Now I don't know, you're advocating both. I don't think that's good. What I would say is that this government has reduced VAT in tourism from 25% to 10% for tourism services and tourism products, but I can also tell you that as a consumer, as a citizen, I have not felt it. I've been to hotels, I've been everywhere, there's been no less price. So can you explain to me what the real attitude of HDZ is, are you one or the other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58436	Thank you. Comrade Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58437	You didn't listen well to your colleague Mandic. We said that the VAT of 13% interrelationships on catering services that was reduced from 25% to 10% last year doesn't bother us. She doesn't bother the caterers, none of them said a word. But what bothers us is what makes directly the biggest problem, which is the incompetence of Croatian accommodation from 10 to 13%. So we cut one small segment from 25 to 10, and then we totaled up to 13%. That's the basic problem. And why wasn't there a price shift? Because a measure has been taken without any control mechanisms. And then there was that part that we've been watching all summer, a battle for a smaller team that was rewarded and not for smaller or larger growth. That was the problem. And we can then say that fiscalization has determined 7 billion hidden revenues, but the effects of those 7 billion in the budget are not seen. And when someone makes such a mistake, then what happened to us when we cut 23 for fat and oil, and we got more expensive oil in 2013 than in 2011 when it was 22. Why? Because there's no control mechanism that's going to make whoever you've allowed to pour it into the citizens' pockets. That's not even here. It took coffee instead of 7 kunas to be 5.5 kunas but we didn't create a mechanism to control why the caterer took the kuna and a half and then we realized in the budget and the finance minister himself said he threw 3 billion into the wind. And now we're fixing those three billion but in the wrong way again in the wrong way, and we've warned him nicely, don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58438	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Ivan Klarin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the final debate on this subject, more or less, so I'm going to try to be brief. Normally I will stay in the tourism sector and increase the rate to catering services and to accommodation from 10 to 13%. And I come from an area of developed tourist area, the Murter island area where last year a total number of overnight stays of 1 million nights have been achieved and it is definitely not good when the VAT rate is raised in tourism especially in any sector normally and especially in tourism. But a little less than a year ago, when the Ministry of Finance reduced the VAT rate to catering services from 25% to 10%, it was a brave measure aimed at increasing the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and may dare and say that no country in the Mediterranean Mediterranean Mediterranean countries of the Mediterranean swimming pool or the EU has chosen such a drastic measure, of course it has helped Croatia's tourism greatly. But all these employers' associations, the host associations, you, Mr. Fighter, can laugh as much as you want, you said today 50 times that the caterers didn't object, yes, they rebelled as you do and as you politicize this topic today. You didn't politicize and praise it this way when VAT was 25% down, no, no, you were up for it, I know that you supported that measure, but you were a lot quieter than you were today when you attacked. So if VAT in tourism or more precisely for catering services is increased from 10% to 13%, then by three percentage points still, given last year, that difference is 12%. So 12% is reduced VAT and you speak as in your discussion from the HDZ Club and some other opposition clubs we could hear that it is almost hospitality, tourism, pensions, cafes that are almost negligible for Croatian tourism and the Croatian economy in general which is not true. Here's an example from my island, so in the last 30 years, since the 1980s, no major tourist company has been built. And you know what opened up? There were cafes opening up, restaurants opening up, including my family, so if we're going to watch the number of seats, for example. Then there are more seats on the Murter Riviera than there are residents. These are the figures to be discussed and to be supported when it comes to this bill. Furthermore, the measure was also normal for VAT reductions to increase competitiveness, absolutely. But we are all aware that the prices in tourism have not been reduced that coffee remains the same. So that difference between 12% of the hosts were put in their pocket, that's definitely why we didn't get the effect the ministry wanted. to reduce the price and increase the competitiveness of this service. I would certainly say that a group of people who don't normally like this country, who steal taxes in every place and every opportunity that allows them so there was a call to the Minister of Tourism this summer when he closed famous clubs by the Adriatic type of Hacienda still not counting because the tax inspectors found over 100,000 undeclared traffic on the day of their checkout in the registers. So absolutely that we can pull the parallel here and say that this is where the state is responsible, so it needed additional tax control, inspection and press. But if it weren't for those, we wouldn't be talking today about this increase of three percentage points, given all of them, which have not been this year since the fiscalization was introduced, but also long before they stole this country. So these aren't caterers, they're just thieves who don't want this country well. Is this measure of increasing VAT what I said at the beginning of my debate that is normally not good and that it is not popular I don't think we can even say because of the Croatian public that something is popular when it rises. We are aware that in 2006 that the accommodation service VAT in the accommodation is down to 10% no one can be happy about this measure. But the interest that needs to be returned in view of the previous period to increase by 2.5 billion kuna that the state is absolutely in a difficult situation, so these measures are simply such that we here today have to accept them. I'm only interested in one thing here, just before I said it, why weren't you correct a year ago or something less when we were dropping VAT on tourism from 25 to 10% why weren't you so loud in opposition and why weren't you so loud in the restaurant? They're the most concerned about this. That's all I care about. But when the state puts down VAT, there were few who praised those measures. I personally believe that this is a very, very popular and successful measure of the Ministry of Tourism. You can raise your hands and wonder, so at the time of the economic crisis, that VAT on service, therefore, is one important service, one major economic branch in the country, tourism is down from 25 to 10%, so everyone has been silent, I think even the minister except the IDS Club, so because he is their minister, so the Minister of Tourism has been asked that question in one current hour. And today, when we raise by 3% today, there's a lot of noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58440	Thank you. We have a replica of a few. Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58441	Comrade Klarin, when the law was passed, we made it clear that it was not a good measure, that this state budget would cost so much and so much money. Look at the debate and you'll see. What we were saying today, then, is what we're saying today. And here we are clear and consistent. For the simple reason that we have reduced VAT rates in tourism, it is certainly not in the hospitality that will raise competitiveness in such a way. Therefore, these are facts. And when you talk about interest, all the interest that was up to 2012 falls off one part of the period when it was the coalition government and HDZ, it's about 8 billion kuna somewhere, all of which is due to borrowing at this point. And therefore, I don't think there's any need for us to fight politically. And when you said there's a million and 200 thousand overnights on Murter, that's to say by some rough estimate these people are going to pay about 5.4 million kunas more VAT next year because of this 3% point or 30% raise on the existing rate. That's the facts. And look, we can do what the minister said, it's a political stance. We made our political position clear. We could have gone as an opposition party politically, so why didn't you cut it to 5%. But aware of the problems of the state budget and the fact that at such difficult times when certain redundancies of certain economic groups are proposed to see how it should be taken into account, what will ultimately be the effect on the income of the state budget because, unfortunately, in some longer time, this effect on the income side can be far more dangerous than that short-term effect achieved for certain economic groups, which, unfortunately, has proved to be so after 4 months. And I didn't once say here, God forbid the Minister made a tax package in a piece, then after a year, he'd see where it didn't work out for him, and he certainly wouldn't be making these moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58442	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58443	Yes, Mr. Schucker, a million and 200 thousand nights are made available on Murter, but they are primarily accomplished in the private sector. So, by the house. I'm sad we don't have hotel facilities. Which hotel facilities haven't been built in the last 30 years. Here you are, Mr. Boric spoke about the strategy for the development of Croatian tourism, the HDZ government brought in in 2007, I think it was a strategy for the development of nautical tourism. Since then, no new marina has been built on the Adriatic since Dubrovnik. Yes, and that's true, I think you and I have already discussed it. And I wanted to point out in my debate, in your discussions, especially Mr. Boric, who appeared most through the replicas, you ignored the catering sector. The catering sector is very important and very important, it has a lot to do with it. And that's a fact. So we have to protect him just as much as this other one, so as far as the accommodations are concerned. And that's the fact I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58444	Thank you. And Marian Skvaric replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58445	Thank you. Well, here's an esteemed colleague. I'd like to name two things there. First I agree with you in that part that tourism is a very important segment of Croatia's development. And what my opinion should not be tourism in some way primarily the results of happiness but... strategic investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These measures have certainly contributed to making this strategic investment more quality and increasing capacity has given us the opportunity and the potential we have to take advantage of. Another thing I'd like to mention is that I'm talking about reduction and increase, this is a reduction if we're talking 12 but not a percent but 12% indexes, and, realistically, an absolute reduction of 48%. And when HDZ was 22% and it's now a 45% reduction. So it's quite a reduction that our tourist employees and that part of the potential that we've given this government is supposed to be used in a smart way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58446	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We will vote...... No, no, I don't have a colleague, Boric, not even. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He did? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] An apology, an apology. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58447	Well, it wouldn't be possible if I didn't answer the gentleman's line. What's the matter? Everything okay? Okay. Don't be nervous and everything's okay. The Ministry of Finance controls everything so you don't have to worry. My colleague Klarin says one saying is better to eat than to say anything. And what you said to Croatian caterers is that they're thieves, that thieves who steal their country and don't like it, that's one better saying in this House, really. Is there a group you haven't identified in such a rough way? Is it possible that we in the House today when we're talking about something that doesn't go in favor of labeling them as thieves who don't like their own country so they steal them. And then I get the feeling that you'd be modeling what we're supposed to be talking about here as president of the HDZ Club. Well, you can't. We have a right to say what we think. And let us warn you nicely and last time we warned you, colleague Shucker explained our position on reducing VAT to catering services. And you do not understand that you have brought down a small part that does not make up most of Croatia's tourism or tourism revenues, and now you have increased overall. Can you understand that? counterpart Jelusic couldn't understand it all day. So we cut one small piece to increase overall. It is negative for Croatian tourism. And that's why I'm reacting. But as for the marinas built, it's not one but eight, you have to study it a little bit, so you'll see from Istria to Dubrovnik where they are. What's not yours in Tisnome is your problem. Obviously, as chief, you're unable to bring either the hotel accommodation investor or the nautical one. That might be your problem. And by this, you'll be even less.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58448	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58449	When you say you are reporting for the replica, you are competing, you are individual gentlemen who will be the most active representative at the end of this term, therefore it is your mission in the Croatian Parliament, but I will not insult you further because you have offended so much. And you know what else bothers me in your debate? We're all colleagues here, every time and every debate and every replica, so you're going to say everything we didn't say, so that's how you like it, that's what you say. I didn't say that all the caterers were thieves, did you know that my family, Mr. Boric, has been in the catering business on Murter for 30 years. ... I won't say you're lying again, but don't tell the truth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm the one who said that some of the caterers, the ones who are 100 thousand kunas of unreported bills, so those who stole from them when the inspectors flew in at two o'clock in the afternoon and shut down those places of their elite. That's the kind of entrepreneurs I've been talking about. And as for the marina, it's been discussed more than once between you and me. I'd just like to know, so you from the session to the session are saying that 8 are made, which is 8? And what are the eight new marinas? ... You could have said that a new 30 marinas were built on the Adriatic and you have no arguments that are marinas. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You were unable to amend a regulation that concessioned the ports of nautical tourism on the maritime good, which all those years has affected speculators and therefore no marina on the Adriatic has been built, not whether a mayor is capable or not. It's facts, only you don't admit it, but you listen to other debates and then speak and turn as it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58450	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58451	Now, an hour after we started voting, we'll finally start. Please determine the quorum. We have 102 deputies at the council, so we can make a rightful decision, and then we move on to the vote. Final draft law amending and supplementing the VAT Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 514, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes in favour and 24 against, have been passed the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58452	We continue with - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ. No. 520 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports. We have the Deputy Minister with us as well. I'd like you to go ahead, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As part of these tax laws, I will briefly say what certain changes apply to the areas of profit tax. I'd say it's three groups that are important to try to detect them within this law. The first is that it refers to the recognition of tax expenditures to financial institutions if they participate in the write-off of loans to citizens. Especially the emphasis is on housing loans. It is therefore important to say that it is determined as a tax-recognized expenditure by a credit institution to write off claims on the basis of approved housing loans to socially endangered citizens whose monthly credit war significantly threatens existence or to prevent the implementation of an application over a residential property. It is also possible for banks to take into account not only the social criterion as a tax recognition expenditure to write off the beneficiaries of residential loans part of the claim, however, provided that they are applied in the same way to all housing users. It is also added as a relief here that banks can write off a part of the credit and debt to unrelated companies, legal entity or craftsman on the basis of fixed corporate credits if the entrepreneur is in difficulty, or when it is found that the payment does not have that potential and significantly threatens the continuation of business of entrepreneurs. This proposal allows the bank to write off the claim as a tax recognition of the expenditure of the extrajudicial and executive procedure by making a direct settlement with the debtor, which is to say, in this case, this is the novelty in relation to the existing law. So briefly when we talk about reliefs, so banks have, they are in the system that certain reservations when they have hard-to-pay loans either to citizens or when... according to companies a certain part of the tax relief is already present and that's the part of the reservation they recognise and the CNB. It is here that even above those reservations which they have reserved and that they do not have to proceed with the complaint against the citizen or the entrepreneur that if they make a deal and when it is seen that part of the tax is problematic, it means that we avoid these proceedings, numerous proceedings and judicial and enforcement procedures, etc., to be part of their tax recognition of expenditures. With this measure, we hope to make it significantly easier for us to write down a part of the outstanding claims against the citizens. Let me give you an example. So on 31.10.2013, the total blockade of citizens, so blocked citizens are 22.6 billion kuna. Of those 22.6 billion kunas somewhere around 2/3 of those blockades, accounts are made up of financial institutions. So 90% refers to banks, mostly housing loans and loans, let's say current accounts and non-intentional loans. The rest of the approximately 600-700 million kunas you refer to blockades towards citizens for leasing and insurance companies. About 1 billion are actually tax debts, trades that have left certain debts, 700 million are blocked citizens somewhere at the level of telecommunications services for unpaid services, 600-700 million are also based on utility. So out of 22 billion kuna, most of it's blocked by financial institutions, so 2/3. What's going on with this? This may also help them to clean up that part of the balance sheet in this area, where they will not have to go to the complaint of every citizen or exercise procedure in order to only by that act when they have launched something of them as a tax-recognition expenditure. Because only by an act of enforcement or by a court case are they declared something, so they can recognize it as a tax-recognition expense. Here just to avoid many, means processes and executions, means the entire judiciary system, and on the other hand, to show that we still have to solve that part of the big problem of the debt of the citizens here, I have to say that the government with this law means no banks, but the government is giving the bank the opportunity to write off that part of the loan, and here we are talking about housing loans. Especially if it's his first real estate, the only real estate that lives in that property so it doesn't happen that we're looking at daily sad situations where citizens from these properties work because it's the only real estate, to say here we plant our backs and say no, you have the ability to write off a citizen of a part of a residential loan if it's an existential property, and the government is going to let you through this tax law and it's a tax-recognizable expense, that you don't have any expense in that part. This is very, very important to know that, in this context, it remains in view of this problem of debt to citizens that this part will also be able to be implemented since January 2014. The possibility of a one-time write-off of claims from unrelated persons is also proposed for natural persons, if the debt has become obsolete up to 2000 kuna if that part is written off until 31 December 2013. Also, here this part is expanding, so not only for a part of the banking let's say one part of the loan, but let's say for everyone else what I mentioned and certain communals and telecoms that blocked the citizens, etc. If this debt is outdated, it means by 31.12.2008. means when it occurred in that part of the statute that they do not have to go through the process, that part of the complaint, rather than to record it, to throw out their balance sheets so that there will be no tax on that part and that in that part we will make it easier for them to do so, and certainly for the citizens of that part of the debt, but also for the part of the company that they do not have to go through a number of litigation processes which, we find it difficult to charge each kuna, and in that part, that it is also taxable, one kind of tax relief. So this is the first and main component of this law, meaning additional tax benefits but mainly targeted and targeted towards citizens and especially citizens who have residential properties, which are existential properties, which live in it, that can actually be above those rules that allow them and that the National Bank can also write off that part. Another important area is the tax relief of profit tax in assisted areas. I'd like to be here right now, not to say fence, but that part about the assisted areas governed by the Regional Development Act to discuss when it is, when it is here and a colleague from regional development. But I'm only going to try very briefly to explain to the current laws what is really changing with this Law on profit tax in that part. As you know in two laws, the PPDS Act means Article 24 and the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar Article 30b. certain tax reliefs have been defined, but exclusively for the profit side. As you know in these laws regarding profit tax and that they were divided into three groups in the law on three groups of areas where, as you know, the second and third groups, the PPDS Act, that companies located in those areas have expired since 2014. It means that if we don't change this part of the Tax on Profits Act that only that part of the law, means that those criteria have expired, these companies in these areas would pay, according to that law, in 2014 they would pay a full rate of profit tax. While this first group is referred to in Article 24. The PPDS Act defines that between 2014 and 2016, 75% of those taxes were paid from 2014 to 2016, which means companies in these areas would have paid in 2014 if we hadn't changed this law, paid 15% of the profit tax rate. What's changing in this part now? So even though these reliefs were taxed because these two laws were lex specialis which was a little unusual, but since they were the whole of these two reliefs were in those laws means in the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, and the PPDS Law were easier in these areas. Now these tax deductions for profit tax we return them to theirs not to say parent, that central law that is the Tax on profit where they should be. But I'm saying, at that time, probably because of the whole of the law, those two profit tax breaks were in those two laws. So now they're technically going back to this parent law of theirs. But what's certainly important is that these criteria that were there, that they were time-limited, that they weren't permanent. What is now changing this law, or where additional tax relief is given especially when we talk about the city of Vukovar. So according to that law, that's why they're going to end that part there. So all companies operating in the area, according to that law, by 2014 all companies must pay 15% of the profit tax. So in 2014, that's what the law says. We now say by this law that it is now a permanent relief and that companies operating in the city of Vukovar will pay a profit tax 0. It means they won't pay taxes and it's a permanent measure. So let's say this is an additional advantage for the area of the city of Vukovar and therefore we change, one of the main reasons and why we are changing this law, to become a permanent measure for companies that actually operate in the city of Vukovar. So, if the rest of that bill were left, they'd pay 15% now they'd pay 0 or they wouldn't pay. Also, for the first group where the first group would also support areas if it were also paid 15%, now it will not be paid. So it's also going to be 0. While for the second group of those areas under that law we also said about 15%, now 20% would be because they were abolished for the second and third groups, now we're going to do it with 20% for the second group will be paid 10%. So, when we look at that part of tax, so I'm not now talking again into the areas of those aided ones that are defined in this regional development, these are additional benefits and reliefs in these areas and the city of Vukovar and the first and second groups that, if existing laws had paid a higher rate of profit tax. So, very clearly bigger, now they won't pay, and that's a lasting measure. She was time-limited until I remember it seemed to me it was even until 2017. So this is an important difference, and technically as far as this law is concerned, but it is very clear when we talk about certain support and areas that there is a very clear government policy on this part of the tax issue that these are additional benefits for entrepreneurs in these areas. Also, regarding other provisions, this is the first thing I said, and this is the second main thing about the law is where here is now proposed by law that the cost of interest on loans received from related persons is the same treatment as interest on the basis of loans from shareholders or members of society, and in order to prevent certain tax evasion by related entrepreneurs. It's a measure we've noticed that in recent years it's been happening in one way that would explain it this way. So, foreign companies that would come to Croatia to start companies did not invest in the underlying capital that would make within 20 thousand kuna but would lend loans to their related company in Croatia and then definitely account for the interest where there is always a question and transfer prices and the transfer of that particular part of the money outside, and then that interest would be a tax recognition of the expenditure. So you have a transfer to the outside, and on the other hand you have that they didn't actually pay because that was the part of their tax recognition expenditure they didn't pay a profit tax. Since the overall set of measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was to improve and encourage the capital base of companies because we say why we do not have economic growth, we do not have economic growth because we do not have strong enough capital companies. And the whole goal is to reinvest in not only this part of what we said we weren't going to pay off, to be used for investment, but to raise... a company capital base so that tomorrow it could be also creditworthy so that I could be in charge so that we could move on to an investment cycle. The problem is that what I said less than 15% is little capital, they don't have enough capital base for further economic growth. Especially when they took advantage of all certain collaterals, new loans are hard to come by. And that was the main same measure of reinvested profits. And here, in fact, it's this part of me not to say these financial transactions where you would allow yourself to enter, meaning giving credit, returning interest, transferring here reduces the tax base, and it's very simple to actually not say and closing, etc., it wasn't in that part of the developmental. And we think that to prevent tax evasion this part is certainly further significant, but again I look at that context when we give capital base, we don't say now you can say that this part is not going to be encouraging for entrepreneurs. So let them invest in core capital and here we are and we said by investing in core capital we'll encourage you and you won't pay the tax. But we won't let you transfer that part of the capital out through the related companies. So there's no argument here that this is some kind of non-incentive measure for foreign investment. Invest in capital because in your countries you pay a profit tax, you will not pay in the Republic of Croatia, but investment in core capital shows the seriousness of an investor when coming to the territory of the Republic of Croatia how much he will invest, how much he will take risks in the company's business. Not only 20 thousand kunas and then close the company and then it's gone. The core capital shows the seriousness of investors. And we as a government say if you're so serious then in that part of the reinvested get you released. And also, other amendments that are mainly in line with the directives and with a particular area. So, in the context, it can be said that this amendment to the Tax on Profits Act offers exceptional benefits for citizens, and we are only talking about citizens who have residential loans that I can not tell them to write off those amounts more easily where we will tax them. Also, a significant and strong message of areas and the city of Vukovar and assisted areas that the Government continues through this part of profit tax relief encourages these areas and the third measure related to this part of non-recognition of interest to foreigners, invest in core capital, and we will give you a relief not to extract that share of capital through expenditure on interest that reduces that tax base. Here I thank and hope that the debate will be constructive to see if we can improve what else in that part but certainly this part of the area of assisted areas will probably be a better debate when colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development define what areas they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58454	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Well, it's not from me as an opposition politician to speak, but I have to say, I don't think you've said a key thing in the area of special state care of the city of Vukovar. If we want to withdraw money from the EU funds for a more balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia, then we cannot do so on the basis of the existing law on PPDS or the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas for the simple reason that the EU directives do not know such a way but must be some kind of income or financial principle based on which someone is providing support. The fact that the Ministry of Regional Development is late with the regional development strategy and with the law is another pair of shoes but it is purely for the public and for the record and it may be a shame that it is not listed here in the reasons when spoken, and yesterday on the Committee on Finance he was a representative of the Ministry of Regional Development he did not say the same, so we stayed in the old Law on PPDS and in the old Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, according to those criteria, could not use EU funds intended for more balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. So these are facts. And just something about these interest rates will be later on, I think it is Croatian interest to invest in Croatia and whoever credited his company that this company invests in Croatia 100 million kunas of these 100 million remains in Croatia. He's going to make some kind of real estate, basically you should do it for businesses, so we're breaking in thousands of other ways to give some kind of relief, and then we're introducing some kind of measure that might not mean anything to us fiscally, maybe we're bringing in a way that might be more effective, the only question is whether we're sending a negative message with this, and we're in a situation where we didn't really choose about investors. So a purely well-intentioned advice on whether we will achieve far greater damage fiscally benefit, and perceptionally very bad looks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58456	Thank you. Here's your answer, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58457	Thank you very much. Well, about what you said about the PPDS Act. I am only talking about this part of profit tax, and I repeat that again, companies in these areas would pay more in the city of Vukovar and in these areas a greater share of profit tax than in these changes. So these changes won't be paid, and that's the one and the favorite benefit for that part. And about the change in interest what you said in real estate I would like you to say that someone comes to invest in production in Croatia but if you want to invest in production in Croatia then you can't have a capital of 20 thousand kuna and then give certain loans through companies but you invest in the entire production hall you enter the underlying capital. And that's the part we want. If someone wants to invest in production, then they're going to put it into core capital, and that's where they're going to get a relief. And actually this part if they just want to be a tax base that... We don't need that kind of capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58458	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We will start with a debate on clubs and on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Hrvoja Nekic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58459	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers and deputies with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In view of the importance and impact on the development of the economy and the objectives set out in the economic and fiscal policy guidelines and due to the timely application of this bill, and in order to keep income from profit tax at the planned level while encouraging credit institutions to facilitate the payment of loans to over-indebted citizens and entrepreneurs under difficult economic conditions, and to ensure a more realistic and even payment of the advances on profits, thus ensuring the possibility of economic growth and stability of the state budget, which assumes the possibility of regular payment of pensions, salaries, incentives, social contributions and similar importance. Economic and fiscal policy guidelines contain a series of measures that expect a positive impact on growth and the development of economic and economic activities, while retaining fiscal tax discipline and ensuring the stability of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Given the importance of taxation of profits as one of the most important factors that can affect the development of economic activities over the past periods in the tax system, new tax incentives have been introduced, which represent a direct incentive for the economy, as they encourage reinvestment of profits or retention achieved in society due to the need for investment and development, while in particular fostering the development of new investments and the creation of new jobs that will certainly be open in the near future and will certainly contribute to the creation of a new value and growth of GDP. By using certain tax exemptions, profit taxpayers have the opportunity to obtain a tax exemption that can be made annually or up to 10 years. Due to the positive effects of certain tax reliefs that are often not reflected in the first year of application since they are mainly related to multi-year development investment projects from the tax reliefs introduced, a significant impact on economic development is expected during the future period, and in particular 2015 foresees a rise in revenue from the profit-based budget due to an expected increase in economic activity. This proposal therefore proposes certain measures in order to achieve the assumptions contained in the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy, taking into account the comprehensive impact of the taxation system and the acquisition of economic operators on the development of the economy, the increase in investment, the preservation of fiscal and tax discipline and the stability of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the bill provides for a devastating relief for local self-government units classified in the first and second groups of underdevelopment, i.e. fostering the most underdeveloped units of local self-government. As the deputy minister explained, so now I would not explain them again, the first and second groups and the city of Vukovar. Therefore, the amount of the exemption from the payment of profit tax is limited to the rules on aid of small value as well as to the applicable rules. But the relief is also proposed without a time limit. According to current regulations, relief was limited in time. The application of the relief shall apply from 1.1.2014 and the financial impact is expected in 2015. In order to mitigate the burden of the crisis, it is prescribed that credit institutions may provide for such citizens and entrepreneurs as tax expenditure which recognises the write-off of claims without the initiation of litigation and enforcement. Furthermore, changes are proposed in the recognition of interest costs between related persons in order to prevent tax evasion by tax-related entrepreneurs, representation costs, and a new list of tax havens is proposed to pay the tax after deduction for the application of the service at a rate of 20%. The possibility of a one-time write-off of claims from unrelated natural persons is also proposed if the debt is outdated and amounts to up to 2000 kuna and if it is cancelled until 31 December 2013. Furthermore, it is estimated that the changes in the way in which the tax-recognition expenditure on interest is determined on the basis of loans received from related persons will be adjudicated by an exchange relating to an increased recognition of expenditure on the basis of a possible write-off of claims from natural persons, since the write-off to entrepreneurs for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is a neutral item. In view of the fact that long-term claims are reserved as tax-recognition expenditure. However, a more realistic and even payment of advances in profit tax is expected. By prescribing a tax relief to carry out activities in assisted areas of local self-government units and the area of the city of Vukovar, the income of the state budget will remain at the present level for reasons of redistribution of the regions or areas where the tax relief may be achieved. Now, I would, since I planned to have an individual debate but in order not to waste any time, I'm still perhaps just going to point out the most important things in this law. Therefore, provisions are introduced into the law to recognise, first of all, certain claims or claims from citizens who have contracts with the bank on residential loans and who are not able to repay those loans. So this bill allows banks to do that, to be tax-recognition banks. So here is, above all, the intention of the Government to help citizens who have come into difficulties who can no longer pay off loans to write off their claims, and for the bank this means, of course, tax recognition of expenditure while for the citizens is a great relief and exit from debt slavery. Banks can also decide that up to 10% of the loans will be written off to all Croatian citizens, I am talking about housing loans, Swiss francs, of course they must treat everyone equally and to be recognised as tax-recognised expenditure they must document. In addition to citizens, it is important to point out that this possibility exists for entrepreneurs who are in difficulty who are at risk of activity and survival. Banks can therefore write off claims against entrepreneurs only to those undertakings with difficulties that threaten to shut down and shut down companies by strict criteria and by strict supervision of the tax administration. And in the end, I would say, which means it might be important to highlight the possibility of a one-time write-off of up to 2000 kuna to avoid court disputes. This is why the SDP Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58460	Thank you too, colleague. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58461	So now, after the debate, both Lalovac and his colleagues, Nekic of the SDP Club, something is not clear to me. It is said that the support for the exemption of the profit tax as regards the Law on the City of Vukovar will be permanent and, at the same time, in the bill of law, amendments to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Vukovar are deleted from the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar and transposed into the Tax on Profit with respect to the measures, I say respecting the measures and criteria of certain rules on the support of small value, so a maximum of 200 thousand euros during any period of three fiscal years. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58462	Thank you. The answer of counterpart Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58463	Dear fellow Shuker, therefore, because here I am not this Law that you have studied, so this measure is transposed into this law, which, according to current regulations, this relief has been limited by this important new law and the applicable legislation that we are about to adopt, will be applied and will be timeless.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58464	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58465	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. So on behalf of the HNS Club, we will support this law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act, and I will take the opportunity to highlight once again what they have received from this law, primarily for citizens and entrepreneurs. It's rare that laws bear that profit, so to speak, that bonus to both citizens and entrepreneurs. Therefore, this bill contains amendments to the tax rules which, in their essence, contain specific socio-economic measures which, under economically unfavourable conditions, intend to affect the reduction of the debt crisis of citizens in order to make the burden of the crisis more fair. Therefore, this bill provides for a different way of recognising expenditure for credit institutions, and here is the continuing government dealing with the attitude of citizens and credit institutions. The one once hot or potatoes or hot apple bites and still solves. Therefore, in the event of a write-off of claims on the basis of approved housing loans to socially endangered citizens, i.e. persons whose monthly repayments of loans to socially endangered citizens endanger basic living needs or in order to prevent the implementation of the activity over the sole residential property in which the credit user has registered residence and in which he resides. So the absolute protection of citizens, the protection of consumers that we've been constantly talking about lately, we're passing laws, we're discussing. According to this proposal, it is found that it is tax-recognition and the amount of the write-off of claims from the debtors of the beneficiaries of housing loans of socially endangered citizens without the initiation of actions considered by a good economic operator, so without the initiation of an executive judicial procedure or another procedure which would further deepen the debt crisis of citizens at this point, and we can say and partially relieve the judiciary, but surely that the judiciary is not a subject of which this law is passed rather than citizens. What is also important to point out, therefore, under the proposal for a law will be determined as a tax recognition of the amount of the write-off of claims from entrepreneurs on the basis of fixed corporate loans if the credit institution, while respecting the rules imposed by the CNB and other criteria and procedures of the credit institution, is to write off an entrepreneur whose debts are at risk of continuing business. The regulation of those amendments expects credit institutions, respecting mandatory and specific regulations, to make a write-off of an application to exempt the entrepreneur from the funds for the development of investments and projects for which the corporate credit has been granted, as well as funds for the implementation of other regular obligations of entrepreneurs. I think this law and the debate on profit tax is a good one and a basis for me to point out what this coalition government is doing in terms of solving problems and indifference and the problems in which companies that have actually had to go bankrupt, and the law on pre-profit settlement at this point thanks to this coalition government is being resolved by 49 billion kunas of mutual claims, of course both banks and states and other creditors. It includes about 5500 legal entities of companies that are in pre-departure deals, but for the importance and weight of this moment. Discussing all the laws, not only this, it should be said that there are more than 43,000 employees, and what is the same to point out that the 5545 companies that are in pre-profit settlement procedures are extremely large numbers of other companies that are tied up as creditors for them who, expecting to solve this problem, realize or provide space for the entire economy to function normally tomorrow, normally pay within 30 and 60 days, respectively. And then this economic growth, which is often skeptical, I accept the opposition's skepticism, will clearly show that economic growth must be, may also be real and that all of those ambitions and plans and even external analysts, or the World Bank and the IMF, the European Commission really has a real basis for resolving pre-fashion deals and all of these relationships that exist. Finally, on the subject of this law, it will again repeat and supplement that the proposed tax reliefs, in particular those related to regulations in regional development, or the Regional Development Act, which we will bring forward will be extremely important in the area of liberation and stimulation when it comes to entrepreneurs carrying out activities in the field of local self-government units, which according to specific regulations on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the first group or the territory of the city of Vukovar, as well as the payment of income taxes at a reduced tax rate of 10% for taxpayers who carry out activities in the field of units of local self-government according to a specific regulation on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. What is also important is that all these activities together will apply the relevant rules on small value support, and on the activities of agriculture and fisheries apply the rules to support small value for the activity of agriculture, i.e. the rules on the support of small value for the activity of fisheries, which is essentially rounding one segment and harmonisation with the EU, but also ensuring further support. On behalf of the HNS Club, I repeat once again, we will uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58466	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58467	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So here we could say that we're going to support this law and that given what we've heard and what it says in its introduction is good, encouraged, to protect citizens, that we're finally with the banks and the monopolies, so to speak, starting to calculate. But there's always one if so I'm going to try and figure out why I have it if, or at our club. When we talk about the recognition of tax expenditures to financial institutions if they write them down to ask a question, so the ministry has a good will and a good intention to make it easier for citizens, to write off claims on the basis of credits for citizens in that social class, which does not mean that banks will do so regardless of their written-off claims go to tax-recognized expenditures. Because if banks are asked to pay off loans and for these loans they have no guarantee in mortgages, they do not say that real estate banks, or mortgage guarantees must be denied in order to facilitate any citizen of the Republic of Croatia because there is always a question of how much the citizens of Croatia mean at all to any bank. So I'm skeptical that we're going to have some major shifts, some kind of great goodwill. But that's if he's welcome and commended the ministry for thinking like that at all. As for this second part of the possibility of a one-time write-off until the 2000 kuna in unrelated societies, we have again if. Therefore, if the debt has become obsolete, it has gone out of date until 31.12.2013, i.e. the debt can be evicted from the balance sheet to a tax-recognized expenditure. We are now witnessing that, I think it was recently on some round table discussion that 70% or more of the executive procedures being conducted are due to debts that went into obsolescence. The problem is that citizens don't recognize old age, they don't object to the fact that it went into the curtain, and now we're getting into trouble. If I'm in charge of T-Com, my debt has gone into stasis, T-Com hires an attorney's office, or a public notary that sends me a commission, blocking the same moment's jury account based on an executive I.D., i.e. a current account, and I'm being taken from the current account by a certain fee, and the debt has already gone out of date. So, I wonder what we want to prove with this law, that is, with this intention? Which guarantees us that T-Com or any other company account which has already gone out of date will write off that same account through its law offices and public notebooks will again not as an executive document block any current citizens' account. And we're talking again if they want to. The question is, what if they don't do it, we didn't do anything. As for the city of Vukovar, the first and second groups, it is clear to us that given what we have so far had legislation and we are losing it in 2014 that this is on the verge that certain companies have been relieved and do not pay that tax. It would be good to see that, for example, in this bill, we had some kind of projection of how much it would bring, or how much entrepreneurs would get more or someone lose from all of it, so that we could have an argumentative conversation about it. This is how we believe it'll be good. The cost of interest from related entrepreneurs, we talk all the time about how we aim at this capital, so the reinvestment of profits in order to strengthen the creditworthiness of these companies and to encourage business for these companies and that the interest that is accounted for in the loans of related companies is not recognised as expenditure or to remain in the income domain as such. However, it seems to me that the whole time we're talking about core capital we're giving him maybe too much importance in that part of investment and inciting investment through core capital. The underlying capital is not a guarantee that the profits are reinvested realistically but only at the moment. Our goal must be when we talk about these things the most transparent system and the most efficient system, not just the lowest rate of something. This is extremely important for investors, it is extremely important for foreign companies that want to invest in Croatia and, on the other hand, I think it was also a replica of colleagues from Shuker when he said that certain things are insufferable because in this way, the question of how limited it is for us and what we can do as foreign investors in that country every day when basic laws change and that is profit tax, income tax, VAT and all that, in any projection of a serious foreign investor, is a serious item that is planned in the long term. As for the introduction of profits into the company itself other than the underlying capital, we have certainly other options, which are, for example, the statute reserves, the legal reserves, the reserves for our own shares here we have certainly this broad possibility where we can act, not just to act on the underlying capital that is the most flexible category but is no guarantee of investments. I won't be long, we'll support this law really in good faith that the banks telecom operators, communal societies, all those who collect their claims to read this, be so positive about this idea but frankly not in the name of the club but in their personal name I'd like to be wrong, but I think if we did some kind of projection for a year how much these changes in profit tax have brought to us in that part that we'll have very, very thin results and that the citizens won't have much of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58468	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the debate was shared by Ivan Šuker and Goran Maric. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Deputy Associates. So by reading this law, a man simply comes into conflict with himself as he thinks. I only personally oppose tax exemptions and believe that social policy must be guided through social policy acts and that this must be visible in the state budget for a simple reason for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to see what kind of social policy is being conducted and how much money goes along with it. And if that were the case, and that is not the case, and my opinion is just a proposal and a fiscal responsibility law to make it clear that the government will have to do so in the future and I think it should have done so and in this law, an assessment which means certain tax exemptions because it is treated as some indirect expenditure in the state budget because it is treated that there was no tax relief would have been income tax, and the government would have led it through social policy measures and it would have been on the expenditure side. Why am I saying that? Well, look, colleagues and colleagues, I'm trying to be realistic and I never want to politicise on these issues, but I have to remind you of our debates about the Social Welfare Act that we had the other day in this House, so remember from everyone on the left and on the right of the assembly as much as the Vice President and the Minister was directed and said that whoever has any real estate and who owns the property can't run social policy towards him and that tomorrow someone else inherits that property. Now one elemental question is raised, first of all, by reason of this law, whether Article 3 of this Article 5 provides that the write-off of the claim of an unrelated natural person in accordance with the criteria and procedures of credit institutions on the basis of approved housing loans and the interest shown in the receipts of the written-off from the moment on whether or not the reason why the credit is not paid is seen? Because if we go to this write-off then a fundamental question has been raised in the past months in Croatia a lot has been debated about those unfortunate people who took loans in Swiss, a lot has been debated about people who had a currency clause and lost their jobs. However, one category of people who were from a well-intentioned human friendly gesture were some loan guarantees no one spoke. These people are without their knowledge, without their question not asking the banks and not seeing if the borrower can be charged simply to the bailiffs they sat down on their accounts and they were completed. Neither guilty nor indemnity have many Croatian citizens found themselves in such a way on a begging stick. And unfortunately, I can't help it. So if we're already talking about helping if today's government, at least that's what it's said, has made amendments that will solve the Swiss problem in a certain way, if this is how we solve the problem of those who can't repay their housing loans, then it's also important to think about those whose bank only works because they were a guarantee. Yes, some in this assembly are very funny because they didn't find themselves in such a situation. Secondly, I am interested in the fact that the tax write-off and the tax relief are in favour of whether this provision of the article is given to AZTN to AZTN to give an opinion on it? Because we can't get away from it if it's any kind of tax relief, no matter what character it is, the intention AZTN has to give it its opinion. Because if they didn't give their opinion, then all of this falls into the water together. My colleagues and colleagues, do we, with these provisions of Article 3(5), acknowledge that our system is not working? I think so. Because we say because of court proceedings that take a long time, etc. the bank is given the opportunity to make what they already have at the moment. Each bank has certain reservations for possible bad discounts which, according to CNB rules, are also recognised as a cost in its balance sheet at the end of the year when they do the tax balance, they book it in the cost. So, this is just a few questions for the simple reason that, for some life experience, every tax relief unfortunately pushes us into the premises of a possible tax ejaculation and abuse of this tax relief. Therefore, everywhere in the world and in the EU directives, it is said that practically every tax relief must be made a fiscal assessment of what it means. Therefore, it is practically treated as a expenditure of the state budget, is not conducted in statistics and does not account for the deficit but is managed and recorded as such. And it's very interesting to say that by accident some politician had done something similar to what the banks did, it would have been a crime, it would have been a crime, it would have been a favor because the conditions changed because someone who got some kind of incentive or credit from the state couldn't pay it back because of the changed circumstances because when a politician did it then it was a crime, and when the banks made it, it was something normal and wrong, and now it needs help. So it's exactly the same everyone's given credit in good faith that's going to make something out of it and achieve something. So we have our own state bank for reconstruction and development where certain things happen, so I'm just saying this on the way. And as for interest on loans from related companies, I cannot agree on some things for the simple reason that every day we all talk about Croatia needs fresh capital, that Croatia needs investment and that Croatia must do so. We know honestly that there may be several companies in Croatia that can invest more than 50 or 100 million kuna at the moment, so that is a fact that we cannot escape from. Now if someone has come to invest in their company a daughter of 100 million kuna with it was built either a building or some kind of drive, so it is something that remains in Croatia, in 99% of the cases were done by Croatian companies. And I don't see the reason why coffee is the difference is whether his mother's actually a sister's brother's company doesn't matter what he credited or he took credit from some business bank, but I'm saying the ultimate goal is to make a certain building. And now whether he's going to put that building in the core capital is the matter of his business policy. So you did see that large corporations in Croatia foreign countries do not want to build their own buildings but go to rent for the simple reason that they do not want to use their credit potential to build a building and thus have a bad balance and a bad credit rating, so it is easier for them to rent the building, look at all the big corporations that are in Croatia and even some banks. He rents a building, rents a book and their balance is great. To build such a building, they would have to be in debt for several hundred or million euros or kuna and their credit rating would have been pretty bad. This way they have it as a business cost and their balance sheet looks great. I repeat, fiscally, someone gave their company 100 million kunas of such a loan and let's say that the interest rate is 3% that is the interest at the annual level of 3 million kuna. The profit tax rate is 20%, that's 600 thousand kuna. And at this point in Croatia, how many daughters are there other than banks that will receive a 100 million kuna loan from their mother on the outside? I don't know how many there are. So I'm just trying to set up a purpose and fiscal effect of something that ultimately when someone ranks the competitiveness of the Croatian state, when doing us a business report from the World Bank is doing some operating conditions in Croatia, make sure that this is due to the interest of those who have a lot of money and they have the possibility of lobbying and pushing their interests because of their interest this will take us as one big minus. And we don't have any use for that fiscally. I agree that such loans that the Tax Administration does not matter which institution of the Ministry of Finance is very much leading and recording and monitoring this flow of money to avoid abuse. So that's one thing, when it's built on building real estate. The second is that such a loan can be obtained from a craft. The financial control can very easily be determined if the credit came for the crafts that the company bought and paid, for example, for a period of 6 months with that loan. Because if she didn't pay anything if she wasn't in such a way on the financial market and in payment traffic, the Republic of Croatia has put on fresh capital, that's what needs to be done and let's not say we've now administratively reduced liquidity in Croatia. But there was no more money in our pay stream. And that's why I'm saying if someone's willing to give their company trade funds so let him give them away. These funds will come into the payment flow of the Republic of Croatia and only more money will appear with which certain obligations will be paid. But that it should be controlled because there is a possibility of abuse needed. But if we say it's not tax-recognition only to them, then it's not good. In ancient times we had if you personally borrowed your trade or your firm's money, so it is said that the interest rate must be at the level of the Croatian National Bank's final rate, today there is no need to determine any other reference size and say that this amount, which is tax-recognized cost above that amount. And that was to avoid manipulation. I say everything because we are all full of mouths no matter what political option we belong to, we are in power or we are opposed to Croatia needing fresh capital and need investment. Are we with this provision sending a message that we want and that this capital is welcome for us? It's not. With this provision we send a message we doubt you, you want to launder money in Croatia. So we have instruments that we can control. So that's what the HDZ Club is thinking, and I think you should think about it, Mr. Minister, without any bad intentions. However, if this is how they think about ruling and opposition, then I think we all want money to come to Croatia together that will boost certain investments. But you know as well as I do that at this point in Croatia what I already said you have several entities that are able to invest more than 50 million kuna in cash. So we're simply doomed to that money outside now whether or not we're going to limit it in this way that's the question. The fiscal effect, Mr. Minister, will be almost nothing. I think with some other records, we can put it under better control and have an impressive effect far better and better quality than this. I'm saying it's your thing, but I just felt the need to tell you. As for the laws and tax reliefs on the PPDS and the city of Vukovar, I think that despite the fact that my colleague Lalovac said that one law is due to expire and that another law must be passed, I think the Ministry of Regional Development had to pass. For there will come a shock for many when they are seen to be neither in the first group nor in the third group. That's the biggest problem. And then there'll be a problem. Because everyone sees this provision of the law looking pretty benevolent. Mr. Minister and you've experienced it when I proposed the budget, and I've experienced it too, remember that position in the Ministry of Finance where various cities and counties are being assisted, so panic is when some city or county is being reduced by aid by several thousand kunas. And now you can imagine what a shock it will be when certain cities see that they are no longer in this relief system that they had towards PPDS. You also know well that according to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, I think it was Article 36 or don't chase me for word now, so I think it was said that the Republic of Croatia will return income tax instead of local self-government units from the state budget. It was also a return to profit tax. They practically gave up a full profit tax in favour of local self-government units and it's not a small amount, it's several hundred million kunas. And without those funds, the units of local self-government remain based on this law. And so I say, I must say, these provisions of the law seem quite benign, but their actual application will be for many shocks. And I would not want the spear and arrows to go towards the Ministry of Finance, that the spear and arrows go towards the Ministry of Regional Development, which this lack of funds and reduced funds should have been compensated with EU funds for the more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, and this was not done by the Ministry of Regional Development. And that's why I'm sorry to only discuss this law as something technical and it's very much about areas of special state concern. And this law meant life to them no matter what it means even though many deserve nothing to be inside. But I'm saying this provision is benign, if I can continue another five minutes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58470	You are also registered individually So you can keep going, keep going individually. [[Well, I mean but, well, let's do it individually. Okay.]] But before that you have the replica of Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58471	I don't think we should talk about it here. Let them come, let them invest in core capital, let them show seriousness, let them show serious intentions, and their doors will be wide open.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58472	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58473	A colleague, a young colleague, is an accounting category. You can have a building that you've done neatly, it's your basic asset, you're neatly calculating depreciation and all other things, and you don't have to seduce it in a commercial court as a basic capital. So this is a pure accounting category. And that's why I said we shouldn't slave some things. Many companies in the Republic of Croatia have also made use of tax reliefs and use interest as a cost of what they have done, and the property and the underlying assets have not invested in the underlying capital. Unfortunately, many of these companies have made them a chain of non-payers, so they are without any employees. After all, that's why we introduced the OIB to eliminate them. Therefore, the underlying capital does not give you any proof that someone has done or has not done something, but whether there really is something in the accounting document whether it is actually paid as much as it is paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58474	Here you are in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58475	Thank you very much. I don't mean to be boring, but I think this article 28a deserves our attention from colleagues and colleagues. 325 units of local self-government were in the PPDS area and I think one 70's, and something else was in the mountain-mounted areas. And I said, I don't want this to go to the Ministry of Finance right now, this going to the Ministry of Regional Development. But ultimately, when the budget is discussed, it will be directed to the Ministry of Finance. And here we accept this change as something that's benign, it's not benign at all. And the Ministry... I therefore made an observation when we adopted the agenda that these points could not come to the agenda before some other points were brought in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem when we talk about both structural reforms and a series of other things that some have not done some things and then it's impossible to put into the budget. And that's why I think, Mr. Minister, that with this law, we should have made that future provision in the Fiscal Responsibility Act, but this makes an assessment of these tax exemptions as potential expenditure that will not be expenditure. And that's why I'm repeating, and that's why I did read that quote in a section of the Vukovar City Act when it's clearly defined what support is of little value and how it can be used. Another thing, colleagues and colleagues, it would be good to get information from the Ministry of Finance so that you can see how many such investments were actually made on PPDS, unfortunately there weren't many, unfortunately there weren't many. You well know that and many civil servants have used the opportunity to... to PPDS and to use personal deductions as they used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's why I'm saying every tax relief pushes us into a tax invasion. And that's why every tax system in the world wants to have as little tax relief as possible, to be as clear as possible, to charge what you can and through the measures of social, economic and other policies to budget if something belongs to someone to see it clearly. And that is what I am telling you, colleagues and colleagues, you will see reactions to Article 28 at the time when those who will be able to use the provisions of this article are published. So companies and craftsmen based in these cities and municipalities. You'll see the shock and then you'll see the reaction. And we're discussing it today like nothing's gonna happen. And that's why I said to my colleague, Lalovac, I'm saying maybe it's not mine as an opposition politician, I'm simply a representative at the Croatian Parliament, and as a former minister, I feel the need to say that this should have been done long ago in the Ministry of Regional Development. This was extended until 1.1.2014 for one reason Croatia will enter the European Union, the Ministry of Regional Development will make a strategy and policy for regional development. Based on this, data from the Ministry of Finance and other data from the State Department of Statistics will be determined by the parameters that units of local self-government can come into these categories, and then there is a shock, which is that there are no more income tax returns on behalf of those units of local self-government, but that through the funds they will be financed certain projects so that there will be no cost in their budget, and that is why I say a series of questions that I am forced to do, which I simply cannot keep quiet about, and I think that in the depth of my soul, the minister agrees with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58476	Thank you very much. Minister Slavko Linic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58477	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for contributing to the debate on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit. Maybe just a few comments. I'd start with what it means to make it easier to write off certain credits with banks and then call for your debate when it was the Consumer Credit Act. It was essential that in this law the government could only deal with the cost of closing loans and interest on credit, and the government only dealt with these matters at that time. What's in our field of action is that we see what it means to stop the growth of interest rates among citizens who are over-indebted, with citizens who have I would say small standards because the benefits by the pension system and the income from work are really modest. And in that part, we regulated both the highest housing rate and the highest credit rate for other needs, and we also said that we would control the costs of the loan conclusion and we defined what the problem is I would say too many exchange rates that fall always on the burden of the credit user and we gave some solutions there. In your discussions with that loan, you concluded that it was not real help. You asked for additional measures from the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the simple problem is the inability to pay off the loan and what the Government in that part can do. So here we've now given you a solution, we've given you a solution that banks that have the possibility of write-offs, banks that have to assess which citizen is unable to pay, banks that have the ability to assess that it's a simple living need where someone lives and without an apartment can't be called normal operating conditions. If it decides to write down, we are now offering the possibility to recognise this write-off and as a tax deduction item from the base of the corporate tax base and in some way reduce their revenues in the state budget again. So that's the solution the government sees in the part of taking care of citizens who are financially incompetent, unable to pay off loans based on apartments, and as you can see, we simply estimated that if the bank takes that step we can simply accept that part of the one that would be incomed through the tax we simply reduce. No doubt, only when the bank writes off, can it definitely be a repulsed item. So there's no reservation, no off-balance sheet positions. He has to write down, he has to release the property, he has to write down any collateral guarantee from the bank forever to become such an item. And we've given it an even more simple opportunity for the bank to generally conclude that it will write down 10% to everyone, that, simply and in that section, when it writes down, we can accept as a deductible item from setting a base for profit tax. Therefore, these are measures that the government can offer in the part where it wants to help more citizens. No help to the banks because simply banks need to write down a part of their claims. We're simply trying to say that we're going to participate in this part of it together and cut our incomes. It's that extra concern about the citizens where you opened that debate when we talked about the Consumer Loans Act and said we couldn't define the write-offs there, but we can define them here. Therefore, on the part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have offered these two solutions. As you can see, Mr. Shucker mentioned today a third, and that someone was careless so he gave a guarantee and now he's paying by guarantee. And listen, the bailiff's capable, so the bank's going after him, and there's no write-off. Yamac has the opportunity to pay, but it is impossible for us to open these issues in a serious debate over the problem of citizens. We should now find a solution for those poor people who really pay not their debt but someone else's debt. What are we talking about? When are we going to realize that everyone is responsible for their actions? We're just trying to say that there are citizens who have lost their jobs, who have simply been pushed into consumption because spending was the basis of growth in Croatia, so the banks and all of them have pushed them to take credit, take it, it doesn't matter what you won't be able to pay off, so now this government is dealing with these problems. So this is what we can say one final solution because I doubt that more in the part of the implementation of commitments to the banking system, the Government can help in anything. So on the one hand, we've solved the cost of the loan, we've solved the rate of interest, we've solved the problem of over-devaluation in relation to a currency, and now we're solving the possibility that the bank is going to write off a part of the impossible payments, and in that part of the problem we're going to go over to the state budget. This is all the government can do in part of the citizens and, of course, what we have done ourselves, which is when a citizen fulfils his obligation to the state that we have given the possibility to refinance, write down interest, the possibility of closing down with real estate. Thus, in that part too, we have sought to enable citizens and concerns about credit obligations, as well as concerns about tax obligations. There has been a lot of debate here, and we don't consider it tax-recognition of interest expenditure on related companies. What led us to do that? Well, you see the sad fact that a good part of the investment in the Republic of Croatia went to the malls and the activities of the service, not the production. And what do we notice about that? Lidl, Mercator, spar, who I've forgotten Kaufland in the last five to ten years, their business has never had a profit. They always have a loss. Is that loss covered? Most of the credits. It's not common. Credits mean a new cost, a new interest, and another loss. It's similar to what we noticed at LUKOIL's loss year after year is covered by loans. It's not covered and the losses are not recovered. Yes, it's the work of their mothers, connected societies or whatever we want. It avoids paying taxes on profit. Yes, we've formed an office for large taxpayers and are constantly with them, investigating what's going on why it's not doing business positively, why it's not doing business, what are the reasons. What are the reasons for their great losses? And that's what we evaluate. There's not enough trade funds for either capital, it's in debt to the mother, it's in the supply of goods, and so on. Part of us believes that we have to break this practice and that in Croatia, whoever works, I guess it works so that it has a certain profit, to recover funds, not to create a unfair match, unfair competition, and that in fact what they have invested now serves only to extract funds and money from the market. Yeah, you charge interest, then what do you care about the profits? Therefore, these are all phenomena in Croatian society that do not last for one year – ten years. And that's why these phenomena we'll fight openly. Therefore, extracting capital from Croatia in this way is impossible. We feel that we should simply complete that part and that we must somehow find models to deal with these approaches to the economic policy of foreign chains. They're not in production. And what are the problems in the store, what problems our manufacturing companies have with these chains, payment deadlines. Yes, the Tax Administration, I apologize, the Ministry of Finance's budgetary supervision is now continuously such houses, we control payment deadlines, we define penalties, we fight for paying the way it says in the Financial Business Act. And not only in those chains, but in our companies that we're responsible for. Yes, all of these are procedures that show that individual systems and shortcomings are still being abused. And maybe to say it very clearly. So listen and when did the ruling coalition say that the judicial system works in the Republic of Croatia? Never. By the way, as you can see from science, we're fighting hard. Science wants to return bankruptcy proceedings, wants to restore bankruptcy, wants to continue to work after 15 years of reconstruction or bankruptcy. And of course, the fact that the credentials get 3 to 5% of their claims doesn't matter, which is facts. So, if the judiciary doesn't work, we have problems, and that's why we're changing at least in that part of the economy, solving liquidity, insolvency, in other ways to raise efficiency in the economy, to solve these accumulated problems. What does it mean to have 45 billion registered outstanding liabilities? What does that mean? Is that the information we have to be proud of? Well, we don't. And that's the part we have to solve. If we don't put in, it's not a problem of fresh money, but the inability to pay it like a citizen can't pay, not even some companies can't pay for it. And then is the problem if there's a deal between debtors and creditors, and the creditors are both state and bank and other suppliers, and we can solve it much faster than 15 years of bankruptcy. Yeah, that means we're trying to do that, and that's why we're changing the provision that said that the bank has the right to tax-recipient deduction only after the proceedings have been carried out. Which we'll wait 15 years and after 15 years we'll let the bank write off a citizen because 15 years of court proceedings. Therefore, much still needs to be changed to the Republic of Croatia, raised and a system of efficiency in the judiciary. And let's be honest, change. But this is a simpler and faster way. And that's why these are the changes we make in the bill itself. Therefore, I am convinced that, at least with this change, we have defined in some way everything that concerns citizens as a borrower, all that we are trying to define more correct relations on the market in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in the business of service activities, and we accept that it is difficult to discuss the provisions regarding PPDS for the reason that we have not yet discussed the real Regional Development Act which law is very, very important because it will define the criteria under which a city or municipality will really be in a particular area of state concern or not be. And that's unfortunately also in this second law that's far more important about income tax, so we're going to postpone the debate because the law is addressed and possibly changing the schedule in the debate over that part that we really know what cities are. And the truth is 50 cities and the community will turn out, the new 130 will get into all of that and it will be for many surprises, but there are important criteria. So, the most important part of the Regional Development Encouragement Act is the criteria by which I would say the necessity to certain cities... Well, we agree, let's discuss that part and move on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you're estimating that we shouldn't vote on this law tomorrow to do this and we don't mind, but we just wanted to do a package of financial laws and then go to something else. Therefore, only voting as far as we are concerned can be postponed in the budget package and with the Regional Development Act too. Well, we can accept that suggestion. Thanks again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58478	And my colleague Shuker has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58479	I don't want to get into polemics, but I know exactly what I told Mr. Secretary when there was a debate over consumer lending. Then I said it was already defined by the MRS and it was defined by the laws governing the business of banks that are actually operated by the CNB and proposed by the Ministry of Finance. So, I don't think there's any conflict here. However, Mr. Minister, in this second part, I still think we should discuss it. If someone abuses you have inspections, determine what's causing their loss. If we need to make a decision, those who are engaged in service activities in the Republic of Croatia will not recognise the cost of interest, and those who open production plants or buy manufacturing machines will admit it. I think we're doing what you said then. Because simply if we estimate that someone is abusing and we don't want anyone making a fool, you know very well, Mr. Minister, who was the problem with Coca-Cola and what interventions were. Because we gave them... 2.5 million unacknowledged expenses because they wanted to sell us a joke behind our backs. Therefore, the people in the IRS can determine that and it needs to be done and then it should be put on a pillar of shame, Mr. Minister. To point out that Croatia is a regulated state. Because when we put it on, then you'll get everybody's support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58480	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58481	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 520, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec to declare Amendment 1 to Article 4. The Legislative Committee. to declare the amendment one to Article 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58482	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58483	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 78 votes in favour, 16 votes against and six abstentions have been passed by law along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58484	The minister has already announced that we will not discuss amendments and amendments to the Income Tax Act tonight precisely because we are going to discuss these three laws tomorrow and there will be some harmonisation or consultation. So now we will discuss - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 521; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Finance Minister Mr Slavko Linic. Here you go, Minister. There isn't? Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of independent representatives and colleagues Damir Cain. He's not present, so he's losing his right to debate at this point. On behalf of the SDP representative club colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58485	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to which the SDP Club is definitely supported. The contribution law regulates all issues relating to contributions such as types of contributions and accounting rates, contribution bonds, accounting and payment bonds, payment obligations and payment deadlines, as well as reporting obligations and other matters related to the collection of contributions. A draft proposal by the Ministry of Finance opened a public debate in which the interested public could participate by giving an opinion, remarks and proposals in writing. I would like to stress that neither the comments nor the proposals have been received on that proposal. Therefore, in the SDP club, we believe that the adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws has reached a high degree of compliance and, of course, it is not surprising that this is a matter of technical amendment and complementarity of the law or of compliance with other applicable acts. Let us, for example, remember last year's changes when, among other things, measures for economic recovery and the development of entrepreneurship have been implemented and wage reduction as a direct measure to increase the cost of competitiveness of the economy. As the Tax Administration proposes changes to the tax policy and tax regulations and other rules to improve the tax system and more effective tax collection and compulsory contributions, we in the SDP club are positively assessing these efforts but also the measurable results in implementing measures for economic recovery and entrepreneurship development. As a direct measure of increasing cost competitiveness of the economy, we reduced the overall contribution rate for health insurance from 15% to 13%. In the same way as the measure to improve the collection of contributions, we introduced a commitment to the changeover of the dues and the outstanding contribution obligations with the claims that the debtor has on the basis of the contracted relationship with HZZO. As a result of the reduction in health insurance contributions from 15% to 13%, a reduction in budget revenues based on contributions to health insurance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave up safe revenues to help the economy directly. We're talking, of course, about about 2 billion kunas per year. But back to today's amendments and additions to the Law on Contribution. First of all, this law harmonises and implements EU directives into national legislation. We all know that on 1 July 2013, as a full member of the EU, we have also adopted certain EU regulations, and so is the Law on the implementation of the EU social security system coordination regulation governing the implementation of rules relating to the coordination of national social security systems. From that date of provision of these Regulations, they shall apply directly and shall form part of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the law further clarify the contribution obligations arising from the direct application of these Regulations. In the first row for insurance undertakings based on the employer’s registered head office or place of business in other Member States under which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia applies. Furthermore, for persons engaged in self-employed persons in other Member States and subject to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, including obligations on the basis of other activities. The law regulates the obligation to contribute to the income from which the second income is determined by the natural person to whom the legislation of the Republic of Croatia applies is derived from abroad. The issue of a specific contribution to the use of health care abroad is also defined, the question of taking over the obligation to contribute, the question of the exchange of information on insurance undertakings based on the work of an employer with registered head office or place of business in other Member States between insurance undertakings and the IRS. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in the Republic of Croatia, which came into force at the same time as the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia, were to be brought into line with the provisions of the Law on Contributions which state the unique names of compulsory insurance in certain and specific circumstances and the obligation to contribute to the protection of health at work for insurance companies from the basics of farmers registered in the register of the family holding. The harmonisation also requires a special contribution to the protection of health at work for persons who perform their work for the common good, in accordance with the Law on Prosecution, and the obligation to contribute to health insurance for persons with residence, i.e. permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, who have been deprived of their freedom by the competent court. The SDP Club supports the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions as its adoption ensures transparency and unequivocal interpretation of provisions governing the issues of contribution obligations for persons employed and self-employed in EU countries. The law also sets out precisely the power of the Minister of Finance to regulate by a provisional implementing regulation the issues of the obligation to contribute in the event of amendments and the addition of mandatory insurance rules, which would mean enabling the timely determination of the obligation to contribute to all persons who will subsequently be subject to an insurance obligation. And in conclusion, we at the SDP club support the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions because it is of a technical nature, it is harmonised by EU directives to remove indetermination and enables the exercise of the right of insurance obligations in a manner and to the extent that it is determined by specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58486	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58487	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this is, in the right sense, another law that we are harmonising with the EU in a certain way, i.e. legal property, with laws, with other laws, especially with health insurance. A colleague before me has, in the name of the SDP club, brought out the important components of this bill in a good way, so there is no need for me to repeat it on behalf of the club in these hours because of course we agree with this bill and we will vote in favour. I just wanted to highlight a few sentences, which is that this law is certainly one of the most important laws for all of our citizens who have the possibility or are already working in a way that one part of their business or other activities in the EU. And that what is certainly important in this law is that I believe that he will be brought into this House to be filled with the text of the law that has been cleared out with these amendments and the additions so that all those who are currently entitled to another activity work in companies that are registered in both EU and Croatian countries and work additionally in EU countries so that they can read clearly. It is also for the Ministry of Finance to expect that all of those implementing acts that are necessary should be adopted as soon as possible in order for the intention of the proposal of this law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to simplify, to absolutely avoid any misunderstanding, and in particular when it comes to health insurance, which is extremely important in all those segments that are being touched by certain occasional or temporary transactions in EU countries, to ensure that no citizen of the Republic of Croatia is denied particularly in respect of health insurance. That is why it is important after the adoption of this law that it can be read, that all those citizens who are constantly working on a day-to-day basis would also be said to work and communicate and live on the path of Croatia and the European Union, use all those opportunities of their knowledge and skills to do so in the EU as well as EU citizens working in Croatia, that they can achieve the primary health insurance, that they can be protected by these regulations, that there is no need for this law to be brought about in order to simplify what they would say to complicate life. Thus, by supporting this law and stressing the need for all implementing acts to be adopted as soon as possible in order to really simplify all the relations that our citizens have and will have, acting as another activity among others in the EU plus official travel, etc., all that is stated in the law will be as soon as possible and clear. We support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58488	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58489	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to say at the beginning, the HDZ Club will support this law for the reason that when I speak now that we don't turn out to be this objector again, so we support this law. However, I would simply like to warn of one thing that is not good with those who write these laws. Now I'm just gonna read what it says here, and then you're gonna see if I'm right or wrong. So, "For the purpose of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia." And now he says, "in accordance with Article 204. In accordance with the provisions of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2013 as a novelty in relation to the previous Mandatory Health Insurance Act, it is introduced: the obligation of health insurance in case of occupational injury and occupational illness, for insurance undertakings based on farmers enrolled in the family holding, compulsory health insurance for persons with residence or approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia who, by decision of the competent court, are deprived of liberty and are located in the establishment units of the Ministry of Justice, compulsory health insurance in the event of an injury to the work and occupational illness of persons who carry out their work for the general good in accordance with the Probation Act." And it is not prescribed for those with the basis of insurance that the first rights of these insurances are achieved on the burden of the state budget or on the burden of the resources of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. In view of the above, it is necessary to make provision for a contribution obligation in order to achieve additional income with the basis of the contribution to the insurance obligation necessary for the financing of compulsory insurance, etc. So if we rewrite the obligation to raise additional funds, then it is evident that this law requires new expenditures in the state budget. The fact that we're going to cover them with one piece of income is okay, whether these revenues are enough is impossible to say because I simply don't know how many of these services that are going to be, and if that were so, Mr. Minister, I would warn you of only one item that was once on the burden of the county, and I think that in 1999, we're moving the state budget, it's difficult for you today about 800, 900 million kuna, and that's health care for health insurance unsecured persons, it was mostly farmers. You remember well that in 1995, the income tax was abolished and since then practically many farmers have not paid health insurance. When they came to the age of 65. Whatever they had the status of a medically unsecured person and it was once paid out of the county budget. It's now in the state budget, I think that amount is now somewhere near 700, 800 million kuna. And that's why I'm saying this, I'm glad that fiscal responsibility entered the law and that provision because it just has to be written down how much something costs. Because this law costs money. He's technically, it's all wonderful and wonderful, we're giving certain rights that will have to be paid out of the budget tomorrow. You have everything in the budget, I think the income of what was once special and is now part of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in case of work injury and I think that their annual income is somewhere around a billion and 400 million. None of the colleagues who don't deal very closely with the finances in this House know that. But it's part of those incomes from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, and I think when I pass these laws, we should simply know how much some things cost us. So without the vaccination, without anything simply to make a new quality in the draft law and ultimately, it was once that pattern of assessment of fiscal impact that unfortunately was fulfilled but had not been applied by many, and they had to apply it, it would likely now and several years ago on the expenditure side of the budget seem different, so I sincerely hope that the provision of the Fiscal Responsibility Act will be used in the future to simply make an impact assessment on both the income side and the expenditure side. And that's why I started this on purpose, so without the intention of my colleague and colleagues to split, rather than just show how much we're bringing ourselves into contradiction because of our technical techniques and tomorrow we're going to charge each other with spending budgets and so on, this is one expenditure that can be extremely large in the future. We simply cannot assess how much he will be because our farmers if they want to withdraw funds from the European Funds, if they want to deal more seriously with agriculture they will have to enter this system of the family economy, therefore it will not be negligible because colleagues and colleagues at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in particular the Croatian Pension Insurance Office had a special department that exclusively covered farmers. In the IRS, one of the most important jobs was your cadastrian income from agriculture. Now it's going to be an economic activity that's going to be the same... Therefore, this provision first, therefore mandatory health insurance for the case of work injury and occupational disease for the self-employed, for farmers enrolled in the Family Register is an item that could be extremely large tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm saying, we're going to support this bill. This is one remark, and I think it goes in favor of the Ministry of Finance that no law, no matter who suggested it, can go into the parliamentary procedure unless an assessment is made, if it's a relief as much as it costs, how much would it cost on the spending side if income is collected, how much revenue is estimated to collect on that basis. We planned 100 at the end of the year, and we collected 120 or 80, rather than making any assessment, and then at the end of the year we have a problem that we have a 100 that we simply couldn't plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58490	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58491	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 521. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Honorable Boris Lalovec, Deputy Minister of Finance to declare the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58492	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58493	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 15 against and 7 abstentions were passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58494	And we will further discuss - Final proposal of the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 519. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. Do you want to explain, Minister? Minister Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58495	Thank you, Madam Vice President. 2014 is the year in which the government will deal with many reforms, including governance. It's always a question of whether we have too many staff in the administration, whether we have a management well-organized. In the last four months, we have tried to see which models can achieve greater efficiency in the administration and better organisation. You have before you one of the first laws that kind of points out that we are going to adapt the other segments of the state administration to this model. And the model is based on the fact that state administrations are too fragmented by the number of counties and by the number of cities and municipalities. We hear a lot of criticism on account of our number of units of local and regional self-government and that we should do something about it. There is always a question whether to wait to see what this means to discuss the organisation of units of local and regional self-government, which means reforming local and regional self-government or vice versa, that those members of the government, responsible ministers, propose their reorganisations. This also resulted in our Ministry of Regional Development going to try to define and how much it would really be necessary for administrative regional organisations to have a better organisation, in order to be able to make certain savings in the position of the administration's cost. So when we talk about amendments to the Tax Administration Act and the new law, our goal is to try to define very clearly what jobs we would be doing at the Central Tax Administration and, given our membership in the EU, it is certain that one of the most important segments is also coming to international activities, monitoring international regulations, harmonising Croatian regulations with international regulations. But also what is important is that at national level we have jobs that are related to supervision, equalisation of treatment and, on the other hand, the adoption of national legislation regarding rules in the tax domain. It remains a question of what to leave to the regional level and how much we think these regional levels might be, and we have found that when we talk about regional level business, it is very important that we have parts of that administration that will deal with taxpayers, means those who will deal with tax determination and contributions that we also have a strong service at that regional level to collect these taxes and contributions, that the supervisory office is also in the field office and that we also establish a strong service for criminal proceedings against those who do not perform jobs, which do not pay taxes properly. Our proposal is that we have five district offices, not like 20 plus the capital so far. Why? Well, that's something that's also an assessment of the Ministry of Regional Development to try to lift efficiency through about five administrative regions where we would achieve the rationality of the state administration's business. At this point we went to central Croatia, east, west, north, south and tried to define five clear regions in this way. Which is characteristic of these regions, that everything around a million, is a little less than 1 million taxpayers except the Central Office, which is about a million and 200 million taxpayers, which means that we've put a burden on the area office in some way so that we have the same burden on every taxpayer in the IRS. Speaking of district offices, then we have to say that we have them somewhere today, 124 outposts, what did I say? ... I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unit 124. According to the new proposal, we are going to 53 outposts for the reason that we are re-enhancing the outpost and that the outpost has a certain quality, and that when we look at the jobs that we would do, we must say that it is our desire that they deal with tax and contribution and payment. Therefore, only those two jobs would be organised significantly in the outposts. When we look at the effect of such an organization then we see that we now have about 409 executive personnel, with a new organization we would have 264, or 145 less. Likewise, those general jobs that are present in these reorganisational changes mean that we would certainly have less expenditure on staff related to the management of the establishment or the regional office, that we would also have less expenditure on renting space and not say everything else. It's just one of the measures that we think that a different reorganisation of the administration could make certain savings. When we talk about the Ministry of Finance then I have to point out that in two years of discussion with the shareholders, the most remarks we have received are the inequality of the tax administration procedures, which means, for example, that in Zagreb they are more rigorous, that they act in one way, that in another institution or area office they are too mild, they do not have a simple way of acting normally, there are too many failures, there is simply I would say let's say that certain understandings and tolerances that created a completely different approach to tax bonds. And there were the biggest remarks, simply insufficient quality of work due to either small organisational units or the too close relationship between the Tax Administration and taxpayers. For us in this Ministry of Finance, this meant that we believe that we have to deal with a functional organisation that must provide answers to such behaviour, which means we have huge systems in which we will still have very clear policies that we have to act towards tax bonds. Therefore, there will be no prolongation of payments or postponement of payments, there will be no understanding of the unpaid tax, etc., etc. Therefore, the functional form of the Tax Administration was far more important for the Ministry of Finance than savings on the organisational part, which means that the taxpayer in Croatia must feel the same way about whether he works in Vukovar, Karlovac, Zagreb, Rijeka or Split, which has not been present so far with such an organisation. This is why we estimate that five large organisational offices will also mean far greater equality in treatment, regardless of whether it's tax determination, whether it's charge and fee discipline, whether it's in the body of supervision. We estimate that it is possible to achieve a common policy in relation to taxpayers if we have fewer district offices and that in that part we will equate the tax administration's behaviour, which is the most objections in the last two years when we talk about the tax administration's behaviour. So not talking about those deviant behaviors of individuals, but saying that 21 so far the area office still had a little more local sound, local behavior, and that we didn't have even behaviour. On the other hand, when we talk about exposures, simply 123 outposts with a small number of employees could not guarantee the quality of jobs in determining taxes and contributions, and neither in the part of tax and contribution payments. So we now consider this a model that is far, far more efficient than a model that has been present so far. Of course, it is something that also causes political controversy when we observe such an organization. Why political? So 21 counties, five district offices that are office offices, which county are we going to round up? Yeah, that's what we're interested in right now. Whether we are interested in being more rational and better organized and not talking about much more quality, functionally organised or we really want to go back to political debates again, which is what the county will do if it doesn't have a tax administration, etc., etc. I can only remind you of the debate when we had changes in the customs administration. It was also a huge resistance, dissatisfaction. I can't forget Dubrovnik and the records and the conflicts over it but what I can say we have at this point a far more efficient IRS, I apologize to the Customs Administration. Therefore, the changes in the Customs Administration did not bring a more inefficient system, they did not bring even a more irrational, although the number of people as you know does not matter or decrease. It's not a problem for employees, it's always a problem for management staff. The executive when he fights for his status and his survival. And these are the political debates that we're witnessing. I therefore estimate that today there are not many objections to the organisation of the Customs Administration or the changes we have had in the Customs Administration. But also now that we're talking about tax, we're going to have political debates again. That's why the Ministry of Finance is breaking ice this time because other organizations are behind this. And the organisation of the Ministry of Justice, the organisation of the Ministry of Administration, when we observe those state administrations and the authorities of the state administration, is also followed by changes in the Ministry of Social Care, followed by changes in some other ministries. Yes, it is a reform of the state administration in 2014 which will mean the quality of the organisation, a smaller expenditure side and a greater responsibility and higher quality of work. Because simply a more massive organization will not allow certain illogical behavior and application of the law in a different way. I wouldn't have anything more to add. We estimate that this proposal is in the spirit of fighting to reduce deficits and that this is something that will be politically problematic, but professional and professional law which I believe will also apply other ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58496	Thank you very much, Minister. The replica has Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58497	Mr. Minister, it is very brave of you to say that it did not create problems for the citizens of the fact that the Customs Administration is organised in a different way and that people today have no problems. They have a lot of problems, everyday problems, believe me, everyday ones. And from now on, we will refer them to your address to write comments about the functioning of the Customs Administration in the way it's organized and how it works. You should know that, especially from Dubrovnik. And of course this is, it's not about any savings here, this is about obviously being one of the steps to end the county. This is only one of the next steps taken to ultimately try to justify the abolition of the counties. And you've been doing it through many ministries and you've been doing it since you came to power, so since the end of 2011. So that's your sole goal and no savings. And you can't say that these changes are justified. Secondly, you'll see reactions on the ground very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58498	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58499	Yeah, I said the political reasons are always an excuse to like our town, our end. I don't mind an argument, you come from Dubrovnik, but the facts matter. There are no problems for the citizens of Dubrovnik for guests of Dubrovnik, which is the headquarters of the Customs Administration in Plots, there is no. Why? That's where he stayed in customs, what's his name? A customs office that performs all functions as well as so far. [[Office, Customs Office.]] But there's no head of Customs. Yeah, listen, that's your problem, and you try to explain why you're in charge and why you think we should keep management places. Therefore, the citizens of Dubrovnik and guests of Dubrovnik have not felt the slightest ineffectiveness of the Customs Service in your city, either. They don't have any higher costs, nor would I say longer procedures. Yes, that's what's called reform and change of the IRS and the Customs Administration or the State Administration. That's what we're different about. When you're talking, you're trying to say this government didn't reform management, when we start at it, then you're politically against it. It's your right but then always be careful when you talk and what are these methods of how to rationalize the state administration? And on the other hand, you're talking about abolishing cities and municipalities. What I know about the coalition government program is none of that. We just want to talk about the rational spending of funds at regional level, but when we talk about management, we are responsible here and we will implement reforms, whatever this means politically for your thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58500	Walter Boluncic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58501	That there is trouble with leaving Customs, there is, because all departures from Istria began with the first that he remained in Istria area office such as the Commercial Court remained and which has no problem at first sight. But the law says for him that in four years, i.e. For 5 to 2018 and 2019, they must also physically go to Rijeka, which means that people from Istria who count about 4 to 5% of the population but who achieves 10 to 12% of GDP will have to go to Rijeka for their own needs. And the rationalization of this is seen in the fact that the case in Pazin operates in its own space with its own resources, and the court's departure to Rijeka will be about 40,000 kuna per month which will be necessary for these people to pay and judges, let's say for travel expenses, tunnel fees and the rest unless they are fired. It's a similar thing with Carina. Of course we won't need Customs if we don't even have rail freight, and let's not forget that Istria was one of the few that had exports bigger than imports. We have one shipyard and it has to go to Rijeka to save someone else, where the need for Carina is getting bigger. Therefore, we do not believe that it can be viewed in a way that sees whether 800,000 inhabitants are in one part. You have countries in Europe with 50 thousand inhabitants. It's about seeing things if there's a business, an economic operator and what's supposed to be somewhere. We do not ask that agriculture be some ministry in Istria but for some other things where Istria is the leader in Croatia we believe that, by its contribution to GDP, its residents deserve to have all the public goods that the state is obliged to give them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58502	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58503	You chose Customs as the wrong example. Istria is no longer a border area, no more customs and no more border. It's surrounded by European territory. And when you talk about companies and listen to these two years we left the system to customs the exit at the border. No, companies have the authority to fill out the forms themselves, prepare the forms themselves. Customs has become one common procedure for every company that gets that trust and has no problem with it. So, it's a different methodology. Not to mention that European customs are so well organised that everything is automated. So, all that remains is that there is little work left for customs officers in those cases where Istra exports to countries outside the EU. A small number. And those are the facts. And then, we must understand, the question remains whether for such a small number we should have a special customs office, customs service or whether it will be simply customs officers who will be dislocated in that part of the Republic of Croatia. Because Istria is no longer our border region or county. Therefore, what has been shown at the Customs Service that it is simply applied to other models, different ways of accessing these problems and simply that already companies themselves perform processes means that we do not want to accept something that means a new way of doing business. We at the Ministry of Finance have to apply that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58504	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Croatian Labour Party colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58505	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the honourable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. First I'd like to ask you a question, so I'd like to ask you a question later. How much is the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, to say the HGK, or what is happening in the HGK? I agree with you when you say that you need to reorganize the IRS precisely for these and such reasons that we should not witness ridiculous situations in which after the DORH takes over your deputy's case on the most respected Dnevnik says very proudly how the IRS is now going to oversee HGK. I think these are situations that we all have to take care of and that these situations are exactly what you said about this law and this law, this kind of reorganisation being brought into the spirit of the deficit reduction. I can't talk about the IRS and the Tax Administration Act without mentioning the Rijeka case again. More than 200 million kunas in August of this year unpaid tax taxes that went into oblivion, which is probably why no one will ever answer. In view of the Law on Civil Service Procedures, who is allowed to initiate it, when it will be launched, and I suppose similarly nothing will happen on this issue, and that is what every citizen of the Republic of Croatia should worry about, especially you as a minister when these things happen and we do not have results in a way that we are principled in the implementation of tax policy and that we are also principled until the end in the collection of all tax duties, regardless of who these duties must be charged and in which way they must be and remain in the state budget. When I asked you a question in my current class about the Rijeka District Office, you gave me an answer for the Rijeka Exhibition, so here I am just warning you that these are two different things and that again, in this case, politics in the game, no matter how much you say that this law and these laws are only to rationalize the Tax Administration and to remove it from the sides in that part of politics. I've made a few amendments to this bill, so I'm going to try to explain why. First and foremost, which taxpayers face on the ground is definitely an uneven treatment. This is another reason why investors come to Croatia with caution because if we do not have rules of conduct and how we should behave and each interpret the law in their own way, it also leads to bitterness and revolt and deep and major problems not only for taxpayers but also for the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance. We are witnessing that a lot of tax controls have been ordered, that a lot of tax controls have been made where they shouldn't be made and that the records of these tax controls are extremely strange. Tax bonds in the fight to the truth are very difficult or almost impossible to get to the head of the district offices or outposts to talk to them at all. And what we always forget again is that tax officials and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are and must be business partners. The other thing we have to do is make the IRS' opinion binding. We now have a situation where the Tax Administration organises seminars on the implementation of the new law, that taxpayers pay neatly 1200 or 1500 kuna to attend the seminar, to record what is discussed at this seminar and how the law is interpreted, to come to their firms and apply what they heard at that seminar for 1500 kuna, and that they afterwards receive tax control from taxpayers who quite the opposite interpret the law from what was at the tax seminar. These are inadmissible situations. Tax bonds go to listen to something to learn, a very small number of entrepreneurs operate in a way that they want to cheat and that their only goal is to avoid paying taxes. And now because of these few and a few of them all, we put them all in the same basket and treat them in a way that they shouldn't be treated. I'd like to ask you one more question. How many states in our environment block taxpayers' accounts the same day that the taxpayer is subject to tax supervision under the General Tax Code in some assumption that he will not pay the debt to him or her by tax supervision. This means that we have already prejudged that someone will be in violation and that they will already receive such a fine in advance for tax control that we have to block a jury account with a million and some kuna VAT refund. And then we talk about the development of entrepreneurship and we talk about craftsmen and we talk about entrepreneurship and investment. These are extremely dangerous situations, and I think we must finally resolve them in the spirit of reducing deficits. Tax administration advisers complain that they simply do not have the opportunity to reach this tax advisor, ask for advice that he responds that he can then give quality information to the taxpayer. And we come to a situation where tax officials in ignorance give false information to the taxpayer and that the taxpayer pays the fines because the tax officer couldn't reach the tax advisor, gets advice from him how and how to interpret the law in the same building and in the same hallway. And once again I ask you the opinion of the Tax Administration whether it is published on the Tax Administration pages, whether it is sent through written channels, whether the Tax Administration has answered the tax payer's question must be binding on any tax officer who comes into tax supervision and he has nothing to interpret the law on this matter in any other way. Croatian Labourists gave amendments to the two laws in January 2012 and this was a proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Law and amending the Tax Administration Act. It's not normally accepted. And on the basis of the fact that the tax administration's task is to examine the origin of the property of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia not only on the basis of documents and tax control but that it must be done at any time, especially when it happens to us that a citizen pays a tax on a yacht or on some luxury villa, that the obligation of the Tax Administration must at that time be determined by the origin of his property because all the data you have and in this way we can only prevent the situations that occur from bunkers in our own villas and beyond. We are also witnesses, you yourself said in your opening statement, about tax officials and about the part where the periodic changes in the workplace will be made to the situation that tax officials are in close relationship with taxpayers and all lead to strange situations where then we see that in certain taxpayers for years, there have been no tax controls for decades, that they are absolutely not controlled and that these taxpayers are not in any plan of any tax supervision of any branch office. Are you going to move those tax officials from the management board now? Are you going to move them from the outpost to the outpost just like the priests in the diocese are moving their own? I don't know, but we're all aware that a large number of tax officials are on the payroll of certain taxpayers. On the contrary, I would suggest, and you think, how smart and good it would be to meet these conditions that a tax officer must also submit his property card at the time of his admission to the state service. Let it be deposited there somewhere, and then the IRS has a chance once a year or once in two years to check the status of that property card because that tax officer would also be obliged to enter into that tax card, an property card pardon. I'm not saying it has to be public, no, but to be in one part and there's a part of what's done because we can't all the time blame for not paying and not charging the state budget all the time to transfer to citizens who don't pay taxes and contribute to entrepreneurs and craftsmen and say that only people are thieves, those who are outside the system and outside the administration. In this way, we would prevent certain things, and Article 17(2) states that a tax administration official is obliged and out of service to take the necessary actions to prevent illegal treatment that is in the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration, so I would ask another of your answers if you could give me how many tax officials it was because this law was also a bore, that is, this item and boredom in force, how many tax officials outside of their working time reported some irregularities or perhaps reacted to an article by a journalist in a daily newspaper, and then you made a little effort to verify how much this journalist writes the truth and how much truth in what citizens read. In Article 23, an authorised tax administration officer will not be presented in such a way as to mark and official a card if the circumstances of the application of the tax obligation indicate that it could compromise the achievement of a specific objective. But I'd like to point out to you, too, it's not so good that the tax officer of the IRS at that point is doing the violations that are forbidden by law. You know what I'm talking about. In Article 49, the Director of the Tax Administration shall be elected through a public tender in time of 5 years. Why is it that 5 when the Director of the Tax Administration is politically appointed and appointed by the Government on the proposal of the Minister of Resort? In this section of the rights and obligations of officials from Article 60 to 67, it seems to me that there is much to talk about but unfortunately I don’t have time, so I’m just going to look back at one more article. Article 71 of the application for the initiation of proceedings for serious infringements of official and working duties shall be submitted by the Director of the Tax Administration to the competent official court. I have added here an amendment that you can do the same as the Minister of Finance because I am asking myself at this point what if you need to initiate proceedings against the Director of the Tax Administration himself who then does so if not you as a minister or someone else who comes behind you. In Article 72, the IRS officer and the IRS may be a solution away from the service, so I certainly think that it would be good to write that he would be away from the service if a criminal proceedings or proceedings were brought against him because of a serious violation of his official and work duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58506	Thank you very much. Replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58507	My colleague, I agree with you that this is not a matter of rationalization at all. In fact, it has been said not to fire employees, employees, but only to improve the functioning of the Tax Administration. It's just impossible. If you're scheduled to lift 70 outposts these people are going to have to go somewhere to work. And what does it mean when an outpost is lifted, say, on Korčula? When the Korčula outpost is lifted, do you have to go where to work? To Dubrovnik. Who's gonna pay for his travel expenses, who's gonna pay for his sleep? So it's going to increase costs. Of course it's going to increase costs. So that's what we're talking about. We're talking about the fact that it's going to increase costs because it's going to fire employees. Something's gonna happen. In any case, the cost of rationalisation will not be but will be either an increase in costs or will be the layoff of employees. It's just impossible for both of us at the same time. Because if there are no outposts where will these people work? Then it is clear that the state will have to bear the costs and organise itself in a way that they can also sleep somewhere and other other costs that come into consideration. I think it's a clear goal, this is a brutal political incursion, a team that we don't have in front of us today, and we don't even have a plan for the field offices, and we don't know where and in what cities they're going to be in. Of course, that will be decided by the government in its political circle. Says the minister we can politically today, how are we going to discuss it politically instead of politically? What other opportunities we have than a political debate about a harsh political intrusion into a system that will weaken this system, not strengthen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58508	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58509	A colleague, Matušić, writes that these workers will be taken care of, provided that everyone remains in working relationship, Article 60, 61, so here's what it says. I'd be the luckiest woman in the world if all those workers stayed in tax administrations but if they were to charge taxes and contribute from everyone equally, if they weren't privileged, if there were no fairer and more honest and there weren't a few smaller thieves and a little bigger thieves. So, what we must and what we would like to prevent is selective tax supervision, is that everyone is treated in the same way and what is extremely important and perhaps most important everywhere in every tax control is interpreted equally in the same circumstances and in the same laws, whether according to the same opinions, whether the same manuals that we have published on the Ministry of Finance's pages and not that the taxpayer comes into the situation from the first degree to the second degree, to the Administrative Court go through two, three or four years to open up bankruptcy for his business because all the jury accounts were blocked and that tax supervision was done in such a way only to him throughout Croatia. Because in this fight for justice, such justice, I'm telling you that it's a very, very long and thorny path, and that would be exactly what the minister said in the spirit of reducing deficits, because in such a transparent and equal way we would just come to filling the deficit, not filling it with just some.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58510	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58511	My colleagues would disagree with you if it wasn't for rationalization. We will all say and all citizens will say that we have an expensive state, that we can no longer pay for it, but when the systems are rationalized and they become even more efficient then we challenge again doubts and cry over the abolition of individual administrations in anything. In fact, how did the ADR come into existence, therefore, to settle disputes peacefully in America as well? A U.S. state couldn't, the American state at that time, and prosperity and progress, could not finance the construction of a new court. And she went into a peaceful solution. That's how it is, it's the beginning of a peaceful dispute settlement. That's one thing. Another thing I would agree with you, which is that you have made a valuable proposal and I ask that Mr. Minister in State Administration Reform should carefully consider what you said, and this is what America introduced in the 1970s. All officials and deputies working for the state or at local level are obliged to register their tax cards, they are required. And we can start with those who handle money and decide on a large sum of money. Here's an example, also from America, 1972, not so long ago they set out to do it. What happened again? They had a big escape, they might as well call it a getaway, people were running away from the state administration because it didn't suit them, and we know why. However, the system has stabilized very quickly and has clean accounts. Quick, efficient administration, the administration that's in the service of the citizens. I think it's one of the best start to reform the state administration. So let's see how many of them they'll go on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58512	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58513	... [[/Conversation off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58514	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58515	I'm glad that we're on the same track of thinking because I also really think that in rationalising the state administration we'd do a lot of work exactly that way when we start from personal responsibility and I think as much as we discuss and think about how this problem can be solved that this might be one of the best beginnings, and then there's a very, very fast, very good and quality inventory. I didn't speak in terms of rationalization in that part that I doubt that this rationalization would happen. Let's keep all these people and those five units that we're planning and in that reduced number of district offices, but I think we're going to do rationalization with one set of different models. One of the models is property cards, the other of the models is certainly responsible for not performing work tasks and obligations because if someone doesn't charge or forget to charge or let over 200 million kunas already booked there go into obsolescence, then we can't dissipate it as some kind of a relief because of old age. That's the problem. But if we put all this together and every civil servant and public servant knew what sanctions he would have for failure, I think we'd be on the verge of really achieving rationalisation but rationalization in the state budget, which should be the goal for everyone, and I think he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58516	Minister Slavko Linic asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58517	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to discuss the organisation's issue with professional work at the IRS. We said the issue of the organization was set with two basics. One is a quality organisation that will bring savings, and the other is functional that interests us in the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia far more. What does functional mean? That the IRS simply has effects in its operation. And this means 5 regional offices will have the same criteria for determining taxes and contributions, the same criteria in the discipline of the collection of those taxes and contributions and the same criteria in the conduct of supervision. Why? Because these 5 district offices will be supervised by the central office, written criteria and will simply be able to closely monitor better work. It is functional that so far and many businesses have resented us because with too few offices, too few district offices scattered to 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb we have had unequal treatment. We've removed a good deal from the big taxpayers. Why? No matter where they are now based in the Republic of Croatia, they are cared for by a single office at the Central Office of the Tax Administration. Therefore, at least for large tax administrations we have very clearly defined criteria in part of tax determination I would say billing in part of supervision. And yes, we have far, far more serious access, far more results. We are no longer going on purely surface monitoring of the established tax, tax paid and the rest, we are going in deep and we are trying to see if someone is misusing certain accounting technologies, and just to pay less obligations. It is already a central office very, very quality works and in some ways unique for all of Croatia. That's why we think this is an organization that will give much greater functional effects. When we talk about frames and failures in frames, surely none of us escapes that there were. There were a lot of them. 50 billion outstanding claims in a country's life such as Croatia at the age of 23 is an enormous unpaid amount. Yeah, it was just that way where we always have to determine, it wasn't just the IRS because sometimes the contributions were out of the IRS, so they entered the state budget and there was no big charge concerns. Therefore, we have a number of reasons. We have carelessness and irresponsibility. You know that five billion claims based on real estate tax go into oblivion, that's not an accident, that's intentional. But there was also no obstacle to 9 top, first people in the IRS getting rid of themselves overnight just for such failures. Yeah, it's been cleared overnight. Is this the year? This year I'm thinking. 9 people who were in the lead because they had failures in their organization or would have had, I would say, an unequal relationship with taxpayers. They've been changed, and they're just constantly changing. As a result of the failure in Rijeka, the manager of the Rijeka branch office has changed, it has been changed. So people change. Yeah, it's not a problem. When we talk about fiscalization, you know, we should have sent inspectors to Dubrovnik from Zagreb to be more efficient. Because they didn't want to close the joints. Yes, that's the behavior that we were aware was happening, that's why we changed the manager in Dubrovnik, Split, etc. We live with these problems, we try to even it out. Now we are also trying to achieve greater functionality through changes in the organization, not to solve problems ad hoc. Because just at that moment when you have five strong organizations, you're going to have an administration that will make sure that these individual things don't happen. I can accept that some IRS officer has deviant illegal behavior, etc., but you know there's no excuse that someone didn't pay 50 billion commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58518	Thank you very much. colleague Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58519	Minister, you said it was in the deviating frames, I'm just telling you that there are more of them and that you can't believe that you've solved everything, you have to continue to solve these problems. You're talking about nine people who were removed overnight and who were in the lead positions. That's right. What, though, do people fit you? Why did they do what they did? Why didn't they charge those tax debts? Why won't someone close a facility that was found to have broken all possible laws as an inspector? There's a reason why. That's why I insist so much on these property cards of these people. Because through these property cards, you can come to the conclusion that as a tax officer, I won't block a jury account and I won't charge 500, 600 or I don't know 100 thousand kuna. And that's why I'm going to allow real estate taxes to go out of date, which is why I'm not going to make sure that there's no charge for a yacht or a luxury car. All that has an answer to the question why. That's why I say that first it is necessary to control those who manage state money, and taxes and contributions are state money and that is the money of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And for that reason, it should be extremely, extremely important that these people who are responsible for charging it because no matter how much you send orders, instructions or I don't know what down on the ground and no matter how hard you try to put it all on five levels, the same things will happen to us again until we detect and determine the personal responsibility of anyone who collects taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58520	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58521	It is important for me as a minister to find a solution to remove anyone who deals with illegal activities. As far as criminal responsibility is concerned, it's the work of other bodies, not the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance therefore submits the necessary applications to both the police and other competent authorities on all deviating, illegal moves by any employee. Their job is to sanction those phenomena. Our job is to get them out of the job. I must say, despite the Civil Service Act, which needs to be abolished as soon as possible, where officials protect each other. Even when you apply to move him, you have a problem with his colleagues protecting him. Because we created such a law in Croatia, and that's what we're serious about at this point in government, and we're talking about removing the Civil Service Act because it's turned into a law that produces a series of problems because there's simply no sanctioning of people who work and criminal acts. And as far as the cards are concerned, we don't mind but, you know, don't forget in Croatia is a pretty good application of the OIB systems, which means we have all the data on the property of every official. On our part of the job, which is how to determine under Article 63 whether the property is covered by income is a long-term job. That's not what we did, but we'll deal with it now. It's just that it's not our goal to go out with those who've been cheating for a little while, but first it's with those who've been cheating on a lot. So for the next five years, be assured that everyone's property will come under control because we have an OIB.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58522	On behalf of the club, independent representatives were to speak to colleagues Grubisic and Cain, not present and lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58523	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Deputy Associate. So I don't deny the right that everyone has to organize a real system that thinks the best will work but also all the responsibility. So, it's a fact that no one can take away from you, nor does it occur to me, but let me put in the name of the club a certain observation, thinking about this law. However, to tell you the truth, Mr. Minister, we at HDZ have remained somewhat surprised and shocked by your statement that there are five district offices and if I'm not mistaken for 54 or 55 outposts. If that's the case, then we think it had to be in the law. Which are five district offices, which are 54 or 55 outposts. Why? Because you have there from Article 60 and beyond you have great opportunities for officials to move, send, etc. which will certainly happen in view of the new structure. I'm saying it's something I simply don't want to slow down or anything, but then Mr. Minister, unfortunately, again, I don't need to provide additional resources in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. So just look at Article 60, and it's impossible if at least a few of the cases in Article 60 are going to happen it's impossible not to have to provide new funds. But I'm saying, I respect that you want to do this, but I believe that no regulation, no regulation can be given to anyone to determine the structure. Why? Because there were 114 social income administrations and City Finance Secretariat of the City of Zagreb, there were 115. Now there are 123 outposts. It has practically increased by 9 outposts and 21 district offices have been established. So, this organization of the former Board of Social Incomes, which, by amending the law, is actually tax reformed by introducing the Tax Tax on Income and Profit Tax when the Social Accounting Service disappeared, is practically then established the Tax Administration. So there was no big organisational expansion. The logical thing that the war changed the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia and that practically more than 80% of the economic activity in Croatia takes place practically in the current three regional offices. It is the District Office of Zagreb, the Regional Office of Rijeka and Split. All these other district offices cover practically only 20%. And they can accept a lot of things and inequality anyway, but the Tax Administration once had a study, a Tax Study where people were educated and if there is anything wrong with the Tax Administration and Croatia lacks economists who are graduated economists who lack an additional education from the rights and lack of lawyers who have additional education from the economy. It's just that it's missing. Why? Talk to lawyers, they look at certain economic processes differently or talk to economists they view certain legal processes in their own way. And to properly conduct tax policies requires both knowledge. And abolishing the Tax Study is one of the biggest mistakes that has happened to this country, the biggest. And what I was saying and when I was talking about the Customs Administration, if, why did I tell Mr. Minister that it was necessary to list in this law five district offices and 54 outposts, it was simply necessary to specify the qualification structure of employees in the IRS. And then when we see how much medium professional equipment we have, how much more we have, how high then we'll see that, unfortunately, at one point in time, by some direction from somewhere, most of the facilities were employed with people of medium professional equipment. Let's say that one facility the size of the town of Velika Gorica, which is the 6th head of the station in Croatia, was with high professional equipment and its deputy, and everything else was 30 people with medium professional equipment. By the direction that came somewhere. And so you were formed the Tax Administration and the structure of the IRS then. Later that changed. But I'm saying, these are all the things that we're going to do because in order to discuss this law, we need to know what the territorial structure of the IRS will be. How certain provisions of the law will apply. And it's not enough to say it'll be a uniform application of the law. And so far there have been interpretations of laws from the Central Office of the Tax Administration that have been binding. What someone did, I'll tell you now one case, Mr. Minister. How can inspection supervision happen several months ago to a man who received capital aid from the Ministry of Agriculture have confirmation, that capital aid is recorded as income and is charged to him by 540 thousand income taxes. The capital aid he received from the Ministry of Agriculture. That's not a safe clue from the Central Office, but someone just did it on the ground. I can send you the papers and you'll see. Without the intention of giving you anything, I just want to tell you that where you have several thousand people, certain things can always happen. What reminds me, however, is that the IRS is turning into a department of Crimea. Because surveillance, surveillance, surveillance, surveillance. The tax administration has a completely different function, and the final result of this work is the tax administration's supervision which controls certain procedures in the field because it simply cannot be done in the office and sanctions certain criminal offences. However, the IRS has an educational and records character above all. And in order for people to do that, they have to know very well about the subject. See how many laws have changed in the last seven, eight months. Can all the References in the IRS understand and accept that? Has anyone ever done an education with them? It's not. And then if there's a mistake, then let's not say that someone did it on purpose, maybe he misread something. But I'm saying, when I compare, why am I saying this reminds me of an irresistible organization in the MUP? There is one World Bank project that was done 4 or 5 years ago and it is the World Bank and funded with millions of dollars to reorganize the Tax Administration in the Republic of Croatia precisely because it is more effective and most important to move away from politics, to be professionalised. I don't know if you know your colleagues or your colleagues, but the IRS has its own position in the budget. And the Director of the Tax Administration practically decides on complete spending. And now I'm curious if the World Bank that we like to call on made a project why didn't this new structure proposal rest on it if something was working, why did it give up? Because I repeat, if I had a law that's five district offices and that's 54 exposures, I could probably speak in a different way. Because I'm interested in how the City of Zagreb will be organised, according to the World Bank project, it was intended to be 4 practically outposts, north, east, west to be practically at the entrance to the city and to be available to citizens who have to come to the IRS. But when I look at the structure too, we all like to boast, and the minister today said that many things can be implemented through the OIB, then I don't understand that the OIB in the law doesn't have a single word mentioned in the central register. Without the central register, the OIB is disabled. The central registry was supposed to be in the IRS, and that was supposed to be the main instrument for fighting corruption. It was supposed to be a blood flow of property and financial Republic. And if you don't have a head man, if you don't have that central register, then we can't talk about his application. You just can't talk. Why am I saying that? Well, because I worked on that project for five years. And the biggest problems were where to put that central register and why exactly they have to be the ones to pull all the data. Well, because what you're saying is that the IRS is controlling and watching as much as anyone has to pay taxes to the state and how much someone has earned and who has it and whether they've earned it in a legal or illegal way. And that's why here must simply be a place for the central registry and the OIB because Mr. Minister, that's your strongest instrument, a stronger instrument than anything. Now, the appointment of the director of article 49 is a repainted story from the Customs Administration. Look, if we say that the Director of the Tax Administration is an official, then it is not clear to me that it is appointed to 5 years but I can accept it, but it is very interesting to say that a person who meets the general legal requirements can be appointed to the Director of the Tax Administration, which is at least 10 years in the affairs of management, can be appointed. Look, you can run a construction site, you can run a veterinary station, the IRS can only work a man who worked on economic or legal affairs that are tied to finance and no one else. As at the head of the bank, the head of the insurance company cannot be someone who is not from that system, and neither can the head of the IRS come from someone who does not know how this system breathes and how this system works. It simply has to have economic or legal knowledge. He just has to have it because no one can come. So, the head man of the IRS must be the man who, by education, should be a financier or a lawyer who had a direction in economics at the Faculty of Law. But it is very interesting that Article 50 of the Tax Administration Director can be resolved by the expiry of the period on which he was appointed on a personal request, for the purpose of permanent inability to act, provided that he has been given responsibility for the serious violation of his official duty and the termination of his duties under the law. So, you can only change it if you don't let God die. It's the only way, it's no different. I don't see why so much protection if the IRS already has independence? But he's right where he is. I've already said they've been very interesting articles since the '60s and so forth. So, colleagues and colleagues, this is about a tax administration official who has been temporarily transferred to a second job and more than 100 km away from the place of residence being entitled and is now talking about paid accommodation, monthly fee, etc. And that's why I'm saying, we can't say that we're going to apply this law without needing additional funding. She's just gonna need it. Also, a tax administration official who is permanently transferred to a second job more than 100 km away from paying for a separate life, the right to transport once a week at home, paid leave of 5 working days for every 3 months, but look at colleagues and colleagues if we move someone from the place of residence where he has a settled housing issue that he owns a house or apartment somewhere else for 100 km and he has no settled housing issue is that fair? Have we done anything righteous to this man? His real estate where he lives and works is practically empty and tomorrow we'll tax him with real estate taxes. So we need to think about some moments. It's okay to move because of the need for service, and it's good for people to rotate. It is not good to have the same people in the field for a million and one reason but colleagues and colleagues to think about it a little bit, put yourself in a position to be in Zagreb now and to be transferred to Gospić. And after a year you stay in Gospić to work, in Zagreb you pay for the apartment on which you pay the loan, and in Gospić you have nothing. And you have to organize life differently for yourself and for your family. Not to talk about it doesn't matter if you go from a big center to a small center and about schooling children and everything, and you haven't solved a housing issue or anything. It's not just to pay for a separate life, etc., there's a lot, a lot of things. But I'm saying, someone wrote it that way and thinks it might be. Yesterday we discussed REGOS and I would really ask Mr. Minister if you and your associates would look at this REGOS Act. I mean, it's just funny that they wrote in there. You yourself said the IRS took over some of the HZMO and HZZO in 2002, and what a terrible mess it was and how much the IRS should have taken care of it. So look what they predicted what they could do in REGOS so practically that from REGOS people who are not even educated to do that can go into the control of the collection of contributions and anything like that. So I say, look at this law that you're writing here and if you look at the REGOS Act, and that law had to come to an opinion at the Ministry of Finance and there the Ministry of Finance simply by default had to make certain remarks. But that's how it is. I already told the OIB. And I think that what's written at the beginning is too much of a flossule and that unfortunately because of its lack of a future organisation and everything Mr. Minister, I'm afraid he's not going to support what you want and what we all want, to seduce the order even more because the IRS is never going to be able to seduce enough order but to do it continuously from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58524	Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58525	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You told your colleague that the IRS seems to be turning into a criminal police force. Well, I agree with you that in one normal time there should be trust and that taxes are then well paid, perhaps best when there is the state's trust in taxpayers, in citizens, when the state doesn't think that every taxpayer wants to cheat just as well so that the taxpayer doesn't think about the state that when he wants to collect taxes that he wants to peel it and rob it. However, you must agree that we are still in one state of emergency, one cleaning... the barn and that much has been loaded. And it is necessary and necessary to do what he said that is one concept from ancient Greece, and then I will explain to you because I do not have time now, and it is good that Minister Linic said that he will start with such a one-check which must surely require a certain time. And I'm taking this opportunity to say that it's very important where the property is. It's not the biggest property in these famous and shouts, it's the most interesting people who are unknown to the public, who do nothing or do some small business and have huge assets. Why? Because that's the property they're holding for someone else. And you're the most interesting. For thus it is possible to come to those who hid the property no longer nearer or distant relatives, for it has been revealed, therefore there are known cases from where these possessions came from, from long ago, from socialism to this day. Well, he gave me a girl, a father-in-law, as you say. The court or police ask the girl where you come from, that is, how you live and he says I can barely make ends meet. So they've come to their senses, and now they've been transferring property for a long time to completely unknown names. And you're the most interesting And I'm going to tell you the fight against corruption starts right at the Ministry of Finance. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58526	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58527	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58528	This is my buddy Shucker's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58529	I said the organisational form of the Crime Police, and this is all you said was defined by the OIB. That OIB wasn't introduced to make-up with him. And it's not true what you're saying, and it clearly shows that you don't know how the system works. Because according to the OIB, no one can buy for someone, just anyone who bought it has to figure out where they bought it from. So, you can't give someone money, so why don't you buy me a house because somebody's gonna ask him where you got the money? That's why the OIB was introduced and that's why I did tell the minister that this central register just had to be finally... That is why it has been introduced that people in the IRS can withdraw all information and even from the fact that someone has been granted a building permit for some kind of facility. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And exactly according to the signed protocol, these data can be used to avoid abuse. That was the intention. Why is someone holding the central register for three years? I don't know that. But my intention when I introduced and the people of the IRS worked on the OIB was just to finally know in Croatia where they came from and if someone bought for someone to see where you got that money if you bought it for someone. Therefore, that was the intention. And that story started in 2005, in 2008, I remember that we passed the law here unanimously. But I repeat, given when you do something and when you create something, then you finally have a vision of how it should work. The one who uses it and hasn't been involved in it probably doesn't see it that way. That's why I told the Minister well-meaningly that the central register in the IRS is the key to this whole story. In the end, the minister himself said that the application of the OIB in certain segments has helped him greatly with certain jobs. So there's no problem. But when I said the IRS reminds me of the Crime Police I spoke organisationally. Tax administration has a very different character of hope and preventive action and supervision and repression comes at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58530	Thank you. Frano Matušić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Shuker agrees with you, and you have well noticed I have already said in my replica to counterpart Tyreli that it is simply impossible for this law to reach rationalization and savings, while at the same time this law foresees that all those whose exposures will cease to make up for the costs of both transport and stay and accommodation, etc. That's what this is about. It's simply impossible to save money at the same time and, on the other hand, pay all the costs that will be incurred simply by removing these exposures, which is the key to the problem. And that's why it's amazing that in this law it's in transitional provisions that no financial means should be provided for this. It's simply unacceptable and incorrect. And secondly, I absolutely agree with you that this is obviously about trying to protect political personnel when it comes to directors. So, when it comes to the Director of the Tax Administration, which under these provisions clearly turns out that it cannot be replaced whose term of office takes 5 years, even though we know it is a political person. Well, today, at the head of the IRS, there's a political person from the SDP. So it's nothing to argue about. Just as it is not disputed that there is also a political person at the head of the district office in Dubrovnik. I'm not fighting for the boss's place. I'm afraid for the fact that this office remains in office. That's what this is about. I struggle to keep the county office because it needs that county, especially when you have the fact that you have two borders, that you simply have to cross two borders to come to Croatia. So from one part of Croatia you go to another over two borders. And now people are going to have to travel for business with the field office I don't know a few hundred miles across two borders like they do now when it comes to customs administration, the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58532	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a result, I told Minister Matušić, although I asked him to see these new outposts. Why? So since they are not controversial about Zagreb, they are not controversial about Split or about Rijeka which are large but will therefore happen in Slavonia, I am sorry that there are no colleagues from HDSSB, both in Banovina and in Lika practically five or six exposition clumps there is one because if it goes according to the criteria of the power of taxpayers they simply cannot function. And the logical thing is that you'll see what that disproportionate is. And what will happen to you? It will likely open an office that will work one or two days a week and if someone travels every day for 20 or 30 or 40 km to work it costs. The cost of transport costs, and if you now have it somewhere in the apartment where it is stationed then he practically doesn't have the right to transport. So I also don't want to say in advance that something's not right until I see it. Because I just don't want to go down to that level of debate. But why is that kept secret? I don't know that. Is that a political problem? Perhaps colleagues from the IDS will have a lot of problems explaining that the district office in Istria will not be. Or let's say that SDP colleagues from Slavonia will suffer to be practically one area office and to be read by a six hundred and fifty miles from the circle. But it is also necessary to respect what the minister is saying that the principle of equal treatment is being established, that a high-quality tax is being charged, but that is not done in such a way. Only by quality education, well educated and professional people and well paid because look tax collectors are the only ones who are unprotected. One high-ranking IRS employee was over posters for a year, the jumbo posters were named both by them and other IRS colleagues, and no one protected them as human beings. I'm talking about the protection of basic human rights, and nobody protected them at the time without telling me how and what positions that went from. Therefore, every tax collector who... someone 10, 15, 20 or 100 million obligations is exposed to possible physical threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58534	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58535	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Shuker about the terms of the Director of the IRS. This is an extremely professional condition for a director who needs it. There is the competence of the basic criterion and this competence must be more clearly prescribed. However, competence in Croatia is a forgotten category. If we can only remember how it takes place in Croatia, then we will be witnesses of this issue. We recently had the appointment of a deputy governor of the CNB intern attorney who has no contact with the economy and no economic policy. We've had appointments to the PLINACRO CEO of the biggest supplier right now at PLINACRO. And as it is shot through HEP, according to FINA, according to LUTRIA, for the Commission of Public Procurement as it prepares. The important thing is that they are young and obedient. And as for five years of office, it is unnatural that the term of office of the minister is 4 years and the minister who appoints the director of the IRS is 5 years. Croatia is creating a major problem with consecutive mandates and the length of the mandate. No person in Croatia should act more than two mandates for any function. And this law should be limited so that the IRS can only have two mandates maximum. This should also be introduced for the President of the Supreme Court and for the Vice Governor and Governor of 2 mandates, 20 years or 25 years of one person in the same place can only be harmful. Especially in the IRS. So when we make an inventory if they'll always sit there for years, they're the same people. And as for fear, there should be fear of tax evasion, not fear of the IRS. And it's just the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58536	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58537	That fellow Maric, if he's been in your law for 10 years at work, then that's clear everything he writes. At least it used to write for 10 years on management or in the profession. Therefore, I repeat, at the head of the Tax Administration, can be exclusively an economist and a lawyer, a lawyer who has contact with financial education and economists who are exclusively financial direction. No one else can be the head of the IRS. And also, fellow Maric, did you notice that today we are discussing the Tax Administration Act without the Director of the Tax Administration? So, we're discussing something and there's no one in charge of that administration. That's very interesting, but I repeat, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who work honestly should not be afraid of the IRS. Tax administration should be afraid and trembling for those who work unfairly. That's the whole point of the story. And to do so, then the IRS must also have an adequate character. Because today every accountant, every bookkeeping service can pay for a variety of educations until, say, I don't know when the last seminar was held. And if you don't educate people they're in an unequal position with those who run the financial business of some companies, they're far less familiar than these people. And how can you control someone less than you know? And I repeat the qualification structure of Mr. Minister that's something that's the tax administration's problem. These people just need some help, and we can get ahead of ourselves. You know well from the 50 billion that story, and how it came to be, but you have official IRS data that the charge, not counting the crisis in 2009, was 98.99%. If there's so much charge, then how could a debt be created, and if someone falsified the billing information, then let him answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58538	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. ... Here you go, Minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, let's say something about the staff, obviously you didn't read the law until the end because you would see that according to the new rules, the Director of the Tax Administration will be elected after the new parliamentary elections. That's what it says in the transitional provisions of the law, which means that this government doesn't intend to appoint a director for five years, it doesn't think. The question remains whether or not we want some more professionalization with Customs and with the IRS. And that's why we felt that the separation of the term of office of the 4-year government and Customs meant simply the possibility of having something more professionalizing. Also a public tender is a public tender. Therefore, after the public tender, the government will appoint. So don't tell me about politics and staff, not people. Don't, because then I'll be pulling up information on politics and personnel. Where does this debate take us? So here you have a different solution. You don't have to agree with him, but just don't talk to me about the shots. I could talk a lot about the staff in the term of eight years of the HDZ government. But I don't want to go back to that primitive way of discussing human policy. Also, Mr. Shucker, which means he doesn't have a principal? She doesn't have the right to intervene, she has no right. Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been made clear that only the minister and deputy minister can be represented by the government. We're both sitting here. Sit down and Deputy Director. Yeah, he's a tax collector, and he's doing business because it's just absurd for us all to sit around and he doesn't have a right to say a word. There's nothing going on behind her back, and I don't know what you wanted to do with it. Imagine talking about the Tax Administration and there is no principal, and there is no right to speak one word in this Chamber by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So we understand each other right away. Those who can speak for the government both of us sit here, both of us. And we're competent to say everything we think about this law. We've also created the people who created this law. He wasn't created by the IRS. This is a government policy that says how to get a more functional and better organised system from the IRS to at least even the practice of behavior in that part. At least in that part we can even the practice of behavior. And what I want to list are the organizational forms that you may be interested in, which office, so that no law has ever been put in, ever. Here we are talking about organisational forms, the government is the one that determines by its regulation what offices these are, what exposures they are. Thus, so far it has always been common when it comes to the Tax Administration and customs and other forms of state administration. The laws themselves have not been introduced. But of course, there remains a question of political debates where someone believes they must have a tax office in their area. Okay, that's the right thing to say. The government's job is to say it's not a rational or quality organization. Here we're talking about having a bad personnel structure. You won't see it when we round up the IRS, you won't. It won't disappear on Korčula, but it will be covered with a high qualification structure because it will be part of some area office, part of it. Where there'll be enough expert personnel. Yeah, that's the change. Simply with this kind of organization, we also try to solve the problem of the abandonment of the Tax Administration by outposts and district offices. Because rounding means we can simply have part of a team and a team that can interpret every regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58540	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58541	Mr. Minister, I've read this law and the Customs Act, and I know very well when it comes into force, but I'm against such a provision in principle. That's what I said then, that's what I'm saying right now. So no matter what political option it is or which political option it is chosen by me, I believe that the head of the IRS should be that kind of man. Another thing, Mr. Minister, don't be angry, but look what it says here for its representatives who will participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies the Government has appointed Slavko Linić Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovca Deputy Minister of Finance, Nadu Cavlović-Miljanec Assistant Minister and Director of the Tax Administration, etc. Maria Langa, assistant minister. So they're from the government determined that they can come to this High House and speak on behalf of the motionary. That's what it says in the act we got. If you know anything else, I respect it. And when you told Mr. Minister that you didn't need to specify outposts, I told you why I told you at the beginning that there was once 114 social income administrations and the City Finance Secretariat. And then the law said that income administrations would become outposts and that district offices would be established in the centres. That's what the law said back then, that was when it was in law. The 6, 7 exposures that were subsequently established were established on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government. But now that you're going into a brand-new structure, I don't see any reason and I don't see any intention of politicizing it, I don't see any reason why we can't see what these facilities are and what they're field offices are. For a simple reason, and I told you nicely in my debate without the intention of being maligned and bad, and I mentioned that I am saying that because of the provisions of the 60th article and on the mountain where the costs that will simply have to be incurred are discussed. So that's why I said it. And you have no right because I haven't been politically in your debate at all and you can't find me a single word that draws on politics. But let me just say, given some experience and good and bad, I just wanted to help this one of ours, let me put it this way, the joint house is effective. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58542	Thank you. Comrade Shucker, as chairman and in some ways the implementer of the Rules of Procedure, was not a practice for all those present here on behalf of the Government. Therefore, I will repeat what the minister said, there is no need for presence in that part. The minister defends the law and the deputy minister and the assistant may be present and is not necessary and not necessary. Minister, here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58543	In order not to create unnecessary controversy when the government writes names and assistants then you need to know the government is talking about who represents and defends this law not in front of this plenary session but in front of the committees. Therefore, the government lists all these names because I am not present in front of the committees. The government is sending the law in the process of acceptance to the Parliament, part of the parliament's work is also the committee's meetings. On these boards, most of the laws are defended by assistants, mostly. And Mr. Lang and Mrs. Director for the reason that a good part of the job at the Parliament is being done by the deputy and I. So that's what the government document says. But it's a good thing we don't get into that part. It is essential that the debate on behalf of the club as far as we're concerned as we're proposing we don't have a lot of big debates. We're talking about a question of doubting the abuse of this law for some kind of political and very clearly speaking, first we're talking about replicas. It's all part of the debate on behalf of the club. Therefore, I would like to make it very clear that we have made it very clear that it is not the government that is going to implement this law, but it will be something that will be held after the parliamentary elections. I also accept your thinking for 10 years of leadership training on the business of financial economic and legal profession. Yeah, we'll add that, good suggestion. So we can certainly include some of the things you said in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58544	Thank you too, Minister Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58545	Thank you very much. Well, teaching on what you last said, Mr. Minister, you said it didn't matter when he was elected and that he would not be elected until after the election. It doesn't matter to me at all when he's elected, but the principle isn't right, and that's my opinion, to choose for 5 years, the principle is that whether SDP or HDZ chooses him or someone else. In principle, I don't think it's good that the conditions are clearly defined. I am glad to hear now that it will also be defined with ten years of leadership experience in economic and financial affairs and economic and financial professions. I appreciate the fire department, but according to this, I'm also an executive with high-level fire department training, which could be the director of the tax administration. It wouldn't be a good idea for it to happen that way. National speaking, even thinking about a public tender is not a good solution. It's an alibi. So the minister is responsible for the situation, the minister has to appoint and be responsible for the work of the director of the tax administration. Why would he have a limit? Well, we chose him in a public competition. I don't think a public tender is a good solution for that. But I'm allowing otherwise, I'm merely expressing my position. It's not defined how to resolve it. Why don't you define under what conditions, if he doesn't respect it, if it's out of date, you've replaced 8 executives because of the fact that tax debts have gone out of date, so let him write here if something's done the opposite of being resolved, under what conditions. We need to talk about the frames, and I don't think it's a good thesis, we don't want to talk about the frames, we need to, the frames and they've brought Croatia into the state we are in. It's not good for an inappropriate fit in such an extremely good place. Sometimes we fake neither politicize nor speculate, it is simply necessary to see more clearly, let's say, in the tax administration which are tax-recognition expenditures and should not be here, and also the director of tax administrations and the chiefs of exposures, because tax-recognition expenditures are largely recognised even though they are not business costs if you are a little thorough scale and in large amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58546	Thank you. Time. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58547	When we talk about political positioning right here, we tried to avoid the government's political decision, we said there's a contest going on, so the government's gonna make decisions on the basis of the tender, so we're gonna try to avoid the government making a direct appointment. How different if I don't compete, let's try to see which six, seven, eight or two candidates will report and then try to assess whether it's a political decision or whether it's a profession. We don't know another solution if we don't compete, and you suggest vice versa, the government to appoint, therefore, political cadeting again, and we say we go to elections, five years. Why? In Europe, you have more and more systems that show that these are functions that should be independent of the political structure in power. He's been with the auditor for eight years, we're here for five years, we haven't dared to think about eight years of people working on professional duties. So it's all an attempt to get the tax administration a little further away from politics. I mean, you don't agree with that. These are different concepts, these are different concepts. So we try to show that we care about something more modern, more independent and more professional tax administrations than the first management personnel. We've given these solutions, you don't want to put everyone back, the government's political decisions and make them political personnel, four years of mandate, four years of mandate. Where is that change, we try something exactly in that change to make it right when it comes to this part. That is why we have no better solutions but to return to the government's political decisions and decision-making with the government's political mandate we do not think that progress in the tax administration is. We think it's the end of an existing state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58548	Thank you. We're continuing the club debates. On behalf of the SDP Club Zdravko Ronko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58549	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, deputies, associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a new law before us, a proposal for a tax administration bill. I've been in that system for a long time, so I've been following this stuff a little bit longer, I really know that the tax administration is feeling that bottleneck and that this bill is welcome. Of course, this is not how I read somewhere the most important administrative organization in the Ministry of Finance system, but the most significant organization in the Ministry of Finance system because it responds to the collection of state revenues and also to the application and supervision of the regulations that this matter is regulated, therefore taxes and contributions. Now that we've met under the conditions of the economic crisis, the economic crisis, the true god, which has been going on for too long. When we find ourselves in a situation where each kuna has become very important, we now see that the tax administration is burdened with a number of weights and that something must be done. Someone mentioned outdated, I'm going to mention communication, I'm going to mention influence, the pressures of all those structures on those political structures at those lower levels obviously from cities to counties, etc. But don't get me into that right now. So one law or one change needs to come out in the light of day. In addition, we are in the EU, adapting, meeting all the criteria, guidelines, European strategies, etc. and there is one recommendation that we are obliged to respect, it is a recommendation of the EU fiscal drafts. Of course, this recommendation also requires a mobile and efficient organisation and what is particularly important, oneness of conduct and, of course, with strong anti-corruption measures to which these levels are still not quite used because they have been relaxed for so many years. Therefore, it was necessary to make these significant changes in the organization but here is how they had the opportunity to see in the governance model, so that these new regulations would also ensure that tax administration efficiency, better organisation, functionality, rationality, praise to God and elasticity. On the other hand, to ensure fiscal stability for taxpayers, in particular justice, I repeat once more equality and international competitiveness. And so here's why we had the opportunity to read, and today here's an addition from the minister to hear in the organisational sense, so here's the unsustainable form of a large number of regional offices we've said 20 + 1 and outposts that have been divided into territory and by the number of inhabitants and which I think to myself 120 have said and that they've carried a lot of direct and other costs. But what might be more important, insufficient expertise in those specialised areas of taxation, is getting harder and harder to communicate almost impossible because now that everyone's working and now they've all had to work at all levels, everyone's looking for some kind of query to the central office and then the communications are shooting. You can't get them, or it doesn't matter, or it just doesn't answer, it just can't get there, etc. And that's why it was precisely necessary for that communication to be resolved, but also for the effectiveness of so, first and foremost education, the efficiency of employees. This law as I see it, it has one new scheme, assumes therefore, the central tax administration office, which would form an office for large taxpayers. Not only do they get rid of offices and outposts, but it's extremely important because sometimes they didn't even know what to do with large taxpayers. It's not easy to have a company, big with I don't know thousands or two employees in one small environment, and now you need to have guts, you have no one behind, neither on the side nor on the side, you need to do something, and you have pressure on you, all the political structures that are very interested in that subject. I repeat, thank God he went to the office for large taxpayers. This is what you said was going to implement a new territorial network, so somewhere in five of these district offices, they would cover so 502 you said and outpost. Anyway, the service's gonna be better. We'll have reliability, there'll be transparency, responsibility, and far better, tighter, stronger vertical controls. In addition, even with this unique regulation of the powers of tax administration officials, uniform treatment would be achieved, the uniform quality of the work of all employees, and this ultimately means greater efficiency and what is particularly important, justice in Vukovar and Pazin to be an equal approach. In particular, this applies to the powers of an inspector, a tax inspector who will have a very important and very important task. We have opportunities to see that the function and powers of supervision will be strengthened, not only to respect European guidelines, but also to respect the reduction of our society's tolerance to all those indifferences from the gray economy, from complex impertinencies to the protection of the state from tax punishable acts, or better to the protection of the state budget. We also had in this proposal what we welcome and introduce new tax powers, so collecting, assessing, recording, processing and using data and notices, calling the official premises, collecting notifications from taxpayers but also from third parties, checking business books, records, verifying credibility, the truthfulness of correcting documents, entering and reviewing premises, checking the status and characteristics of goods, confiscation of money items, securities, which would certainly be sublegal acts done or completed. Of course, a review of the means of transport, etc. One option is therefore introduced for a safer, more accurate, more precise determination and tax liability. The responsibility of officials, tenants and what is so particularly interesting is prescribed I have to say one taxpayer, one taxpayer always taxes, he is always, during and after working hours, a tax collector, but it is also not or is not a very good suggestion when it comes to labour mobility, so the temporary change in his job or the periodic change in the place of employment of employees or employees because it is a strong anti-corruption moment. The second to remember a strong anti-corruption moment is for me and for the tax collector to be paid well. So just this periodic change, a little walk isn't bad, we're going to even the process and work and action, and on the other hand, we're going to take it a little bit out of that environment so it doesn't get too comfortable and too used to it. And on the other hand, I think tax collectors should be well rewarded and it's one of the best anti-corruption measures. We can also see from this material a steering model that has brought in a new solution that rests on good practice so far that in international good practice and I think I have the feeling that this will be one firm, clear and precise to say and a secure vertical management. So what we've had opportunity to hear about the director as a state official who's head of the IRS, his deputies, well his deputy and his assistants run the sectors. It's extremely important if we don't have any more bullshit when you have a line from the facility to the central office, so we have these sectors that will be managed in some way but also take responsibility. Nevertheless, the heads of the district offices who have their deputies again and who manage sectors at a lower level and to the end we have leaders. This law provides for cooperation with other bodies, so from the Customs Administration, the Police, the State's Attorney's Office, etc. Not to spread this now, the misdemeanor procedure, and in the end there was a lot of talk about rationalization and savings. Of course, this model also brings in savings, but here I would appeal from some experience that I had at the age of 24 how much I spent in the administration of incomes for saving but not oversaving. This law must be operational, effective, anti-corruption, so it must be fair so how much it costs to cost because then it will be satisfied both the state and the state budget and most importantly will be satisfied with the taxpayer when he knows that the same way of working, action, access, etc. is applied to it. Was he in Vukovar, Dubrovnik or Pazin. Since we are convinced that the application of this law will also be a SDP club, it will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58550	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58551	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we go again, Mr. Minister, Deputy Director of the IRS. So on behalf of the HNS Club, as has already been said by most of my predecessors from other clubs, it is quite clear that a new structure is being supported for which both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance are proposing for the establishment, for efficiency, for efficiency, for new rights, for obligations, for the responsibilities of civil servants within the IRS and for the IRS. Thus, the introduction of the Office for Highly Transparent Obligants, simplifying what is said to be the uniformity of decisions expected absolutely from the Tax Administration not only for large taxpayers but absolutely for all for whom decisions are made, because that is, of course, the main objective, which is that the laws, regulations are interpreted in the same way or certain implementing acts. What I would like on behalf of the HNS Club to give a certain emphasis or not to point out I will not say open questions, perhaps some doubts, the challenges of this law, it is about essentially tax powers. I will start with Article 19. It shows that these laws and other regulations require the IRS to respect the dignity, reputation and honor of every person, etc. and by law guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect the provisions of the Ethics Code, in particular to minors, older, powerless, taking into account their specific characteristics which can be observed. Now, of course, sometimes obviously they can't be seen in the way this law provides, or maybe certain rules will show it in more detail. Furthermore, Article 30. The IRS collects personal data and other persons who are likely to have knowledge of these data. These are some new tax administration activities. Then Article 20(2) states that the collection of personal and other information and information from the child is taken into the presence of parents, guardians, foster parents, the person whose child is entrusted to the care and care center or the professional person. Article 30(3) indicates that a tax administration officer who collects data and notices means not only facts and documents of existing sources of data is not obliged to inform the taxpayer or other person to whom such data relate if it would make it impossible or difficult to carry out the business. It is again an assessment of the officials and is an exceptional responsibility for the officials in the decision-making process. Furthermore, the article only a few articles on behalf of the club have been singled out, says the call to the official room of article 36. The tax administration officer at the interview to collect the notice may invite a person who is likely to have information useful for carrying out tax supervision and enforcement. An official of the Tax Administration of a taxpayer or another person shall call for a written, oral or use of an appropriate communication device where he or she is obliged to communicate the reason for the call. Now, returning to dignity, reputation and honor, guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms, respecting the provisions of the ethical code here obviously there is a certain doubt, and I believe that it will be resolved by implementing laws that nevertheless the person who wants to know certain information... It is no longer about surveillance where the documentation is being reviewed and monitored but we are coming into a situation where a child may be invited to talk by means of a communication device or by his guardian or by his parents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here it's not clear. I don't think a legislator should allow such matters. Therefore, certain doubts really exist, a way of communicating as far as I know by the police or the judiciary is not that someone is called on the phone and told about someone is being considered, discussed and analysed, and that the person to be spoken of is not aware of it. By means of means of public communication, when this is necessary due to the danger of delay, security and treatment, or when calls are made to a larger number of persons, the same question is open, what is the effect. But I'm saying, I'm stressing that there are absolutely children and minors in this way of communication. And, of course, there's more, for example, a person's identity check. The identity check of a person is carried out by means of an I.D., travel document or other public ID with a photo, so when we talk about children and how it can be recorded, we know that it is essentially the identity card of the person by which the person is identified and that's why it's called the I.D. And a little easier subject, which is the temporary confiscation of items of domestic or foreign means of payment of values and documentation, Article 45. So, the temporary officials of the IRS are temporarily... cases etc. In this respect, Article 46 states that where circumstances require it to prevent illegal treatment... temporarily restrict, temporarily prohibit the carrying out of the activities of the fishing of business premises etc. etc., etc. or other rooms. So one question opens here, which is, and we know that one part of the company is registered in an apartment where the persons they have and the company probably would have made life and existence impossible. And now we have a law that this afternoon indicates that banks can't do business, or that they can write off when people's existence is threatened. So the law does well, not because it has more articles than it had before. It goes into a lot of detail, especially and explicitly takes care of the responsibilities of the IRS officers and deputies, but it opens up certain issues that I believe can be avoided through responsibility and mode of work, which is a question of protection of human rights, especially children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58552	Thank you. On behalf of the national minority club Denesh Shaw. Here you go, buddy. Oh, I'm sorry. Wrong application. On behalf of the IDS club Walter Boluncic. The wrong applications were made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58553	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. I'd just like to before I start saying maybe two things. Istria is a border region and has an international airport and as far as exports are concerned, ships are all in the majority of exports outside the EU, and the ship is a very important product for exports that has a significant impact. And secondly, the follow-up to perhaps one previous debate would be the correction of the wrong allegation, namely in the old, still in force of the Tax Administration Act, is the list of the district offices that are listed in Article 9 that the regional offices of the second category are the Regional Office in Split, Rijeka, Pazin and Osijek, and no third categories are mentioned. Accordingly, we at the IDS Club have also given an amendment asking for a new law to be added in Article 4 a new paragraph of paragraph 2 which would say that it remains the name of these district offices here. So we're asking that even in the new bill of law in the list of regional offices of the second category, these four district offices remain here. So, Pazin, Rijeka, Osijek and Split. Why are we looking for this? Namely, as I said earlier, one fact is, I'm going to have this debate because a lot of functional action has been spoken about by the Tax Administrations, perhaps more referred to the organisational aspect of the Tax Administration and what it means to us. So based on some experience we've had so far, which was that 2010. The trade court from Pazin went to Rijeka and if it remained, I would say service, a permanent service in Pazin, which by 2019 must be abolished physically, so for the purposes of the Trade Court will go to Rijeka. What bothers us is the fact that it was abolished for no clear reason. In fact, the senior Commercial Court had said that the Trade Court should be where they are most needed and where the action is economically strongest. Istarska County, with its 4 to 5% population, participates with 10% to 12% in GDP and exports, is also one of the few counties whose exports were larger than imports, and in tourism that still holds our head above water over the summer it participates with 30%. By all the standards that were given, according to the number of subjects, according to the number of cases solved by the Papal Trade Court was at 4th possibly 5th place of 13 courts, 7 remained and he was not among them. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of a regulation where, without clear criteria, it will determine what will be where the centre is unacceptable to us. We want to be clear criteria and that Istria as a region that can make its own and cultural history but, above all, economic status has the right to the amount of money it gives to the state budget, that its citizens can come and that they have the right to manage. So the public administration has to stay in Istria. What is also important in this law where we are in your explanation is that we are talking about the Law on the Regional Development of Croatia. It's one draft law that's just under public debate. The draft law, which is otherwise totally unacceptable to us, provides for five planning areas. Istria was placed in one of the planning areas, it is the northern Adriatic and Lika, even losing its name in the name of the plan area. This division is unacceptable to us in a wider region because such division is being braked, not only to brake, but to reverse the development of Istria in an economic direction. What people in Istria think of such a proposal is evident from the recent adoption of the Istra County Assembly of the Declaration on Regional Development and Unity of Istria. The declaration was adopted unanimously by all MPs, where a number of SDP representatives who made their observations and contributed to the declaration, and a number of facts are pointed out in that declaration. The first and basic fact is that in any division of Croatia to regions, which includes the establishment of a state administration at the level of the region, Istria must be an independent region, one level below the state level. So what we call state minus one. We do not want any interregion between Zagreb and Istria. Secondly, the same is said in the declaration, noting the members of the SDP who adopted it there, we ask that access be made to the return of institutions that have recently left Istria to Rijeka, which are so far three, the Commercial Court, the Peace Institute and Customs, and to prevent other institutions from leaving, these would be as likely to be the hints of the Tax and even the words of the Police Administration and even more important state administration should move to Rijeka. The reason why we're asking for it to remain in Istria cannot be qualified in a way that is feared by someone here for leadership. Given the economic situation and the contribution Istria makes to the Croatian budget, we believe that the citizens of Istria have the full right to manage their region. So we believe that all the institutions that I have previously cited should be in Istria in a way that the citizens of Istria can meet public needs as close as possible to their home. If you think this is not the way it should be and there are 6, 7 institutions then we establish clear criteria and we will decide that three institutions may be in Rijeka, but 3 will stay in Istria, so from Primorje-goranska or Rijeka people will come to Istria where they will be if needed or if they do not have to travel to the centre. Simply managing places, i.e. managing one part is very important for a region where it can take care of its needs, especially one region such as Istria, which has power, has its own economy, it has a need, because for all such criteria it is if we exclude the City of Zagreb in the first place in Croatia and thinks it deserves such a relationship with itself. An example of this phantom law, which is in the public debate, which has not been adopted, was the establishment of these planning areas where the partnership councils for the planning and partnership councils at the level of the county are also established. The County Partnership Council determines the composition of the Government, and this partner council should give its consent to the county's development strategy. So, the county run by democratically elected people, successfully managed in as far as possible under these conditions must now wait for a partner council to give permission to how strategically it will develop and this partner council chooses its government. This law and even this procedure of centralization, regardless of what anyone thought was effective and rationalization, is far from being true. On the wings of the poor economic situation, it seems that only the number of cities, municipalities, counties and local self-government are wrong for the poor. How can she be guilty when only 5% of the state budget have them at their disposal, and 90% is the state, 5% is the City of Zagreb. How centralisation works is best seen in the example of the allocation of agricultural land. We have almost a year passed the Agricultural Land Act where the state took over. Since then, one millimeter has not been leased, and let's not forget that Croatia has joined the EU in the meantime and that now the problem may be what amount of olive vine or other will be done. Yes, before that in Istria is a divided country in a way that the money received from the lease because it was mostly paid on a long-term lease went to a fund where more than 100 million kunas were collected for the development of olives, vines and everything that it is known for today and in the world makes one of the world's most prized destinations So I think it's a topic because the minister said in his explanation that this law is based on the Regional Development Act, which includes five areas. [[/Intruding Batinić: Col. Boluncic, I ask you to return to the topic. There will be opportunities for regional development.]] Since so far there have been more stories about funding, I would refer to that part, so that's what the minister said to be based on a regional law that has... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58554	This is a fundamental debate. I understand, I feel the same way because I'm also from local self-government and regional, but here I am asking you to talk about the IRS and this is going to be an opportunity. I'm appealing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58555	What's the story? I think it's important because I'm undermining one analogy with other things that are going on like nothing's going to change. So the basic fact that we want to make here is that there is not enough hanging in the air to set up one regional division, especially because they were mentioned before, based on another law that is only in public debate in the procedure, which is very negatively said by the citizens of Istria. Another thing if it's about rationalising the functionality of the law, I think we need to see one thing, that the interest of the law isn't to be a small cost, the interest of society is that people live well. And among other things, the rational administration is a public one that has to be available to people in the best possible way, with an adequate amount of money spent. If someone needs to go 100km and more than home to achieve some basic right, it's not a rational administration, at least it costs a little. in this way we could then leave only one Tax Administration in Zagreb and all the others would cost much less. I think it's an emphasis on the fact that if the area office is lifted in some places that everything is going to work better, it's going to cost less that it's just not true. Decentralisation is what has been shown in most countries, among other things, the most centralised countries in Europe are Greece and Spain, which says the same in itself, and I believe that in this law one of our amendments means our amendment is to list the tax offices of the second category and we are asking that there be Pazin among these regional offices as so far. decentralisation and centralization are two concepts that one leads in a positive one in a negative direction, decentralisation is among other things in Istria you don't have everything in one place. The mayor's office is in Pula, the assembly is in Pazin one office is in Novigrad, one office is in Poreč, two are in Rovinj, some are in Pula, Labin etc. We think it works in a good way. We therefore believe that at a small door is what would be said by mitc with different laws hanging in the air or bringing a regional structure where five regions were placed where Istria is not an independent region unacceptable to us because it was historically and economically, it joined the Matica of Croatia through the will of its people and we want the institutions of the Tax Administration, Customs, Pensions, State Administration as well as those institutions that will remain with its centres in Istria. Whether it will be Pula, Pazin anyway, we are specifically asking for Pazin to remain and we are still not asking for it to be in Pula. On the other hand, it would be our request and I hope the Government will see that Istria deserves the area office of the second category with its economic potential and need for tax administration and that it will adopt this proposed amendment and leave the field office in Pazina. And once again, look at the laws that have been passed where the state has taken something, or those that have previously been at a local level at least as far as we are in Istria, you will see what is a huge difference in function and how much benefit the inhabitants have had. Here's another time I'm asking the minister to consider this and that one story about having to leave Istria has to stand still and remain the area office of the second category in Pazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58556	Thank you, too. On behalf of the National Minority Club Dan Shaw. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58557	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I want to get involved in this debate a few words about this law. In the text itself, I believe that it is proposed to edit almost up to the details of certain rights, obligations, responsibilities of all employees from directors to employees and subsistence staff, conduct of proceedings, etc. He would even dare to conclude that in these proposed articles concerning the conduct of the procedure, some things may also double in relation to the content of the General Administrative Procedure Act, because certain things are also applicable in this procedure. In this explanation there is a company here mentioned Slovenia, Bulgaria, Portugal etc. and it is stressed that the new territorial organisation will form regional offices in several regions of which each region consists, etc., etc. This is the intention and intensity to contribute further if, under the law, the service is well organized to fight the gray economy effectively, which is just to welcome it. I absolutely welcome all this together, but I would only have to warn in one sentence the following, these partnerships with other countries, probably based on the number of residents and the number of employees etc. I don't think that's acceptable until the end. I have a bit of a familiar situation in my home country right now, because we're neighbors in Hungary where it's impossible to compete with them. There and a small larger village has its paid president and even a part of the tax is charged by an official in the village. And then it's quite different organized if we're going to do it now, then we get some really incorrect data. It is said here in Article 4(6) that the tax administration may carry out recording, monitoring, etc. for local self-government. Therefore, the number of tax administration officials required will probably in one piece depend on how much of local self-government they will take. Whether or not they will engage and conclude a specific contract to carry out certain of these tasks. The decision shall be taken by the representative body with the agreement of the minister. However, I would have one suggestion only in this sense if it were assessed and there was a possibility that this relationship between local self-government and tax services might be in some way stimulating to achieve better results in the charge that these people in that tax administration would be given a certain way of stimulating. In Article 5, it is not clear to me, it may not be well enough. Point 6 of point 6 of point 6 of point 6 of this Article is replaced by the following: The branch office may be held in an area for which it is established to carry out certain operations outside the base office. It's a little abstract for me. I don't know what it's all about, what it would be, inspection actions, etc. about working in the field. Allow me just two, three suggestions on this article 37. Here in point 5, the oral notice will be drawn up with a bookmark which must contain names, last name, name, place, date relevant to the content of the notification, etc. Then it's a record because the record of all these elements must contain, I think it's just like this, that note has certainly a slightly better weight and I'm having a little bit of this formulation in Article 40. It says: "The entry and inspection of the space in which the activity is carried out, this is the chapter, says: business space within the meaning of this paragraph, this article is considered a residential space designated as the seat of a legal or physical person who carries out the activity if used, etc. that he may examine it." In point 5, a review of the other premises and premises may be carried out only on the basis of the approval of the judicial authority. Now it's not clear what the bodies are. Here he mentions all the official, business rooms and residential rooms where he is based and here for those other rooms then he needs the consent of the court, i.e. the judicial authority. It's a little weird for me. Allow me, I would now also on this subject as the minister pointed out, the basic motto is rationalization and centralised, of course it is obtained in every respect of quality. I'm going to try to illustrate it a little bit now on the example where I live, although I don't know it, it's already a little bit in the public news that it's likely that this and the tax exposures in the White Manastir will be abolished, if that's the solution in general as planned. We can't even stand up to it, and life will continue to be organized in a certain way. However, I must warn of certain things, specifically for the area of Baranja so far, the State's Attorney's Office is one good part or a total moved to Osijek, which is about five, six employees, part of the municipal court as well. The rest of the 15 employees are also mentioned that it will be combined we know for what reasons, subjectivism, all of this, all of this is explained the quality of work and I appreciate it all. The misdemeanor court also, seven to eight employees, also announced, 17 to 18 employees, the office for the economy is already in Osijek. According to this, farmers, the OPG, etc., all work must go to Osijek, and somehow it seems to me that it even works, were a little dissatisfied, but lately I haven't heard any bigger remarks. Then the Croatian Employment Service also has an outpost in Beli Manastir, the Croatian Institute for Pension Disability Insurance about 25th and I think there are about a dozen employees. If all of this is summed up, this means that in the Beli Manastir or Baranja between 80 and 100 relatively well paid jobs. Now what dimension does that problem have? First, if we lose it, it's almost certain that the vast majority of these jobs will fill in to say the Feelings, they're our citizens, but there's little chance that someone from Baranja will succeed there, they will, but it's a very small number, and now it's almost 70.60% of them are the Barans. But it is not a problem, and the White Manastir as a city loses that consumer power and these families, etc. But for me, the second major problem is that there are several hundred Baranjas in these institutions every day from 30 villages of Baranja to solve their various problems. These people in the process of solving are using other particular institutions not to say that they're going to drink 200,300 gemists in the White monastery, that they're going to go ladies to the hairdressers, that I don't know I don't know everything else you're turning around in that town, and without that, I don't know what's going to happen there. I see it that way because it's obviously a situation. Therefore, we will have to have one period in this White monastery, in this Baranja or in Valpovo, or I don't even know what else to do in Miholjc, to start again. Because we've come down from 54000 residents now to 36, 37 for the next 10 years. If this keeps up, it's likely to shrink further. Thus, it has for everyday life in that small town or in the city the same as in each village finally certain economic repercussions. And if it's about certain savings which is both quality and work which I welcome and absolutely support, but I must honestly say it's not even... It's a simple finding of facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then let me take a look at the other side of the medal, because right now it's current these days I'm the state budget for 2014. There are 425 pages I think if I remember correctly. And just one example I'm going to say, and when you look at it patiently is that you need one whole day or maybe more than that, then so many institutions, the agency, that simply when you read it, it's even impossible and imagine what all these people can do and just one example to count it now. I think there's still time. You have a farm that's the closest thing to me to a food agency is four and a half million. Agriculture Payment Agency 141 million, Center for Agriculture, Food and Village 37 million, Agency for Agricultural Land 17 million, Croatian Agricultural Agency 57 million. It's a total of not less than 296. I don't doubt it, everyone has some work to do, but you have a special Ministry of Agriculture that's 215 million. I don't know from these many institutions they all advocate agriculture, making their contribution, though unfortunately some indicators say that we have certain productions and declines. I haven't even mentioned the Chamber of Commerce and the agricultural chamber they're fighting for yet, and somehow it's being installed. I have to point out and say, probably both at the head and these institutions as well as these tax exposures, etc. There is a manager who is definitely stimulated and paid in a certain way. So if it were all covered within the ministry, probably, and it could be found there, I have nothing against any institution, find a certain reserve without talking about it myself just this pure curiosity for the sake of taking it out. We also have a Drought Monitoring Centre in Southeast Europe, I have no idea what such an institution is doing, there's probably some content of monitoring droughts in Southeast Europe. We have an hydrocarbon agency. Come on, that might be clear to me what this is all about. The International Mobility Programme for Research. It's at the Ministry of Education. And then we have interesting things that I don't know the content of that work. Says the Port Authority of Ploče has a project to integrate trade and transport. That'd be good to see, find out what's going on. And we even have a flood center in Venice. And that's what we finance. I don't know what that center is doing. He's probably following the flood. Don't get me wrong, here's what I wanted to do most of the time, and I wanted to show this side a little bit, that there are savings reserves in that budget, so maybe we shouldn't just look at the financial and that effect in the reorganization of these exposures, but also certain moments of this one that I was talking about. [[Intrudica Batinić: Col. Shoi, I ask you to return to the tax office and budget when it will come to order.]] And finally, just two more, three more words to say and I'm going to end it, and I'm going to say it a little bit and emotionally because I've been at the head of this tax service in the White Manastir and I have to point out that it's never been written, nor has it been required to place any record in that institution except Croatian even though it's an extremely heterogeneous population in Baranja. That was always okay. And no one's ever asked for it. However, there was always, always, and yet, only one official, but there were necessarily officials who spoke the Hungarian language as well. And now he's really threatening the danger that he won't be here soon, because for three years now, there's been no Minister Schuker here, and I started with him. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you colleague Soja.]] We're moving on now. [[Invader Batinić: Your time is up.]] For three years, we've been balling between the Ministry of Administration and finance, or tax administrations, to save it from staying, that people can be speak in your own language. [[/Invader Batinić: Col. Shoja time here. There's one replica.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58558	There's a replica on your exposure, so you'll be able to supplement it. Here's my colleague, Maria Lugaric, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58559	Dear colleague, it is important, it is popular to talk about agencies but also about their abolition and unnecessaryness. However, it is important to know that some jobs must be carried out completely irrelevantly if something 5 persons... the one, the important thing to do, is also true of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mentioned the Research Mobility Agency. It is a condition that the programme is implemented, given that it is a European programme to be in a special agency. The Centre for Flooding in Venice was founded by a special interstate contract and must be as such. So it's not good to politicize on some things you don't know about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58560	Thank you. Hey, buddy Shaw's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58561	My colleague, I'm sorry, but I have a feeling you didn't understand me. I didn't say that for any of these agencies to be abolished. On the contrary, I didn't aim at it at all. Then you misunderstood me. I just counted amongst the others because agriculture is close to me, and this by name I didn't know what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58562	Thank you. And final word, Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you all for your contribution to the debate. It may indeed be true to point out once again the purpose of the new Tax Administration Act is both functionally and organisationally to set the Tax Administration in such a way as to be rational but most responsible in carrying out its jobs. When we talk about responsibility, I would like to say very clearly that there must be transparent, uniform ways of handling and that the Tax Administration must be as close to taxpayers in communication with taxpayers. On the other hand, the tax administration's appearance must be uniformly monitored. This is why we go to a smaller number of administrations for a simple reason because it guarantees us more expertise, more knowledge, and the ability to control and even all of this. So what we've been handling is the number of people who can work in these 5, 4 district offices and on the other hand that we can have about the same number of taxpayers. That's the only thing we're handling. This is a question of the organisation of the state administration and if we are going to talk about local self-government or regional self-government that we have through the county and evaluate that we remain on the system that the state administration must remain organised then the answer is no change. And I'm sorry, everyone's demanding a change from the government. Why change? For the reason that it is estimated that management in the Republic of Croatia is not effective enough, that management in the Republic of Croatia is the one who is guilty of not having enough investment, that we are not the ones who are simply facing investment. Therefore, let us be honest if we want to reform, we want to change then we also have to change the criteria. Therefore, it is not a question of the criteria of organising a state administration in the part where someone thinks it is not important but must adapt to the county structure. And there's a reason why it's impossible to accept some amendments. Mr. Soya was talking about some other bad organisational structures in the state administration. Yeah, too many agencies, too many institutes and everything. The government's reform and rationalisation programme in 2014 went first in the direction that everything must come to the state budget, everything, so that we can control the way each of them is spent. That was the first one. So we have conflicts over how many are independent. So they like to see that independence not in the way they act on market regulation but in spending money. There's no independence in spending money. And now it is the final result of the government's reform agreement that all ministries must circle both regulatory bodies and agencies and institutions. Just like you said. Why? When we round them up at that point, we will also have a smaller number of management posts, a smaller number of those general jobs followed by these institutions and more money focused on the activities of both institutions and institutions and agencies and regulatory bodies. Therefore, the complete changes in that part will be very soon and you will testify because we will change them and simply sum them up, reduce and make good efforts to monitor through the state budget. Therefore, one of the likely reasons for the rebalancing will also be the complete change that we need to make in the part of the independent bodies that are huge numbers and are irrationally spending money, irrationally. And that is one of the measures you will see because it will be an integral part of the government's measures to try to reduce deficits in the past year, how to speed up the reform processes. Each minister is essentially now doing a proposal to reduce the number of these bodies. Therefore, yes, we agree that it is not only I who would tell the Ministry and the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia but also all those agencies that we have multiplied and now we have to save and organise ourselves differently that money goes functionally somewhere, not that money goes to a irrational organisation. When we talk about the OIB system, it's a central register, it's in the Ministry of Finance, and we have everything on it regarding property, except that the unclean property is connected to property by land books and data. Why? We didn't go all the way into building a catastra value property because it's important to us, because one house means nothing. We always wonder how much she costs, what that value is. And that's the problem with the lack, but this system is completely centralized at the Ministry of Finance and we have all the data, and we're still interested in the data from the land books that's likely to be put in place. And I hope that we will succeed and accept both real estate taxes and the necessary building of a catastra property that must speak of the value of that property. Right now, the data will be all of them. And what's important is this information about the central OIB registry is now available to everyone so that we can control it in part of social giving, in the health care section and all those who use that data. When we talk about the importance of a different tax administration organisation, I would, however, touch Article 63, it is a very sensitive issue, something that we did not attach great importance to in Article 63 when we talk about the General Tax Law, which is an examination of whether the full income has been declared, taxed, paid tax and property if it corresponds to that registered income. That's something we have to deal with seriously, that's why we need really good-quality organizations. We need to have even approaches. We don't want the persecution of small or large or such. It is true that we really need a uniform system all over Croatia because there will be the most resistance, the most problems. And that's something that we really need to have for the quality of the tax administration's work, we have to go into this business, do we simply see that we have too much property that doesn't have its origin in the registered incomes, and it's obvious that in that part we have to go far, far more seriously, so the organization by the regional offices is very important. We have also installed in Article 12 we are making binding instructions and interpretations that are given by the Tax Administration and which will be made public. It remains always asked whether my individual questions to the IRS should be written and binding... it is not common. According to that general rule, the general data that can be derived from my question is something we can do. If we need more, we'll fix that article and we'll see. We accept and suggestions mean what about the selection of directors to tie it to a particular schoolware, we accept suggestions to go to property cards that will be a commitment not to public publication but to be able to monitor the seriousness and work of tax officials and we have as little doubt as possible about their work. And what I'm saying is, you know, when someone says we define too many surveillance articles. It was the supervision that was quite unequal in the Republic of Croatia and was indeed missing out on many, so the other tax debtors. Even with poor supervision, we have come to the point that many things have gone out of date, written a bad, bad solution issued, leading first-degree, second-degree and re-returning and again to second-degree and the Administrative Court and the Higher Administrative Court and going all out of date has no income. Therefore, surveillance is important that we have a real quality in tax administration solutions. What we noticed is that this surveillance was completely, completely separate from the central, that we didn't have even opinions, that they were individual inspectors, so within one outpost we didn't have official interpretations, official agreements. No, that was the opinion of an individual tax inspector. We're changing all that. We consider no more individual opinions, no more. These must be the attitudes of the Tax Administration that descend from the central office, and then the offices are the ones that have under their control and they must act uniformly throughout the Republic of Croatia but with clear views from the central. Therefore, we are significantly changing exactly what has been the greatest deficit so far, and that is that people who have been inspectors have interpreted certain things completely differently and therefore have individual solutions that we have been struggling with in the Ministry of Finance for two years. Why? One solution, another solution, the Administrative Court and we see that it is not quite common, that it is not quite acceptable, that it was different in the other Tax Administration but we no longer know how to find this uniformity after these powerful solutions and that is why we change everything and why so much emphasis on supervision. As for the suggestions relating to individual articles relating to the freedom of citizens, I must say by now we already have a good deal of it settled in other tax laws and we have rules. But after Mr Gjurkovic's debate, we will still review all these articles and ensure that we do not harm the right of privacy of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. A fellow Shucker often spoke of this as a law that would cost expenses, we're going to have savings and there's going to be some expenses. Why? If we go to a grouping of offices and if we go to a grouping of tax facilities, there may be a little more cost to transport, but that doesn't mean that this law will cost more. We believe there will be savings. But it's also a very clear message there won't be layoffs of existing people, there'll be certain costs for transporting you going to a place maybe 20, 30 km away from this part and that's something that's going to be a bigger cost but the savings we're planning will be bigger. But we also have a very clear solution, even fellow Shoja said he didn't know what it was outside of the outpost. Well in these transitional periods we will keep many jobs and many will continue to work in those places where they are, although there will be no tax facilities, but they will be members of some tax base, they will remain in places where they are and now and that is outside of the tax base. But what's most important is functional, they won't be alone anymore, they won't be lost, they won't be in doubt as something..., then they'll still have a far stronger tax base in which they'll have clear rules on how to define and determine tax obligations and contributions, how to control payment, and in that part they'll be functionally more connected but will remain in the same place, without there their boss because it will now be a single tax administration. Therefore, it is likely that in 2014 there will be very little when we talk about that part of the movement in the tax administration office or in the branch office. There will be no major changes in that part, but there will be a change on how they will work together and have far more quality work. That's it. We'll try to consider your amendments, so I'd like to ask you all what you think would be useful if you suggested that you deliver here, and we'll try out from this debate and form some suggestions ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58564	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58565	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I agree with you that the IRS should be even and responsible. You also talked about the insight into the property of taxpayers and that only there is no property related to the cadastre and land that is not settled. However, I draw attention to the property the IRS still lacks, something also because of legal restrictions. What about the savings property? It's a huge property. What about property in limited liability companies and stock companies? What about hidden property in custody accounts? He has assets in foreign savings, he has assets in foreign properties, he has assets in foreign companies because they own them. You should think that it's also treated as property because it's actually 90% of the property, and I'm just afraid 10% of us are recording, and the biggest ones have it in this form that I've just been saying. They own pension funds, they own some other funds, they have a huge one. And that's what companies abroad have bought from. And when we talk about responsibility, you've probably just missed out, you haven't responded, and I have to tell the IRS that he's not looking closely at tax-recognized expenditures. Many companies in hundreds of millions of euros pay imaginary consulting services, especially that goes abroad, even though they have domestic traffic, abroad where this reduces the tax base here, and tax is either not paid abroad or paid in another country, and not in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58566	Thank you. Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58567	Yes, avoiding tax payments is an activity that has been expanded in Croatia and across Europe. What we can say is that the European Council and ECOFIN are dealing specifically with the problems of how they are organised to prevent these activities from being done by certain business people and our citizens. What I can say for Croatia, we support every measure to slowly obtain data on paid interest, on savings, regardless of whether it is European Union countries or in countries that sign exchange data with the European Union. Therefore, there are 20 non-member countries, but they sign contracts. Even America agreed to sign a data exchange agreement. Therefore, more and more data are being prevented from tax ejaculation and where these hidden transactions are really being traced where our individuals have either property or shares or I would say savings and avoid paying taxes. As for foreign consulting services where, in some ways, tax payments are avoided or vice versa, exports at undervalued values or overrated values, only that there are no incomes here, and out there is simply money that is then withdrawn through profit and transferred by transactions. There I can say very clearly that this is why more and more tax administrations for large taxpayers enter into details precisely in expenditures, recognised tax expenditures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58568	Thank you. And the replica, Walter Boluncic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58569	Well, the state of taxes, of course everyone cares, especially for these big ones who... way to avoid taxes to pay. However, I would look again at the reorganisation of the administration. It is important for the reorganisation to establish the criteria for which it is done because if it is not there, it turns out to be self-will. As far as I can see, where it's only about the population, about 800,000 to 1 million, the question of whether something like tax is one of the good but not the best. Therefore, the amount of GDP, which must be collected, should be very significant. If we're going to look that way again, I'm not saying Istria is at the very top. Second, if we're looking at a lot of inscriptions this summer at fiscalization, I think the least tax ejaculation was right in Istria. So this suggests that the tax administration is doing relatively well and I think that in such a case this tax institution should perhaps be an example of how it should be done rather than being punished to eventually enter another level. Furthermore, we're all looking for changes, but let's try to think that changes can go in the direction of decentralisation. We make changes that go in terms of centralization. I also went through the work at the Uljannik Shipyard that there was one of ours, so the one with the two o' then with the three, where he now works at the university we used to be part of the river where in college they were in some way legal person, now we're integrated. If all that work can say one thing. Centralisation will bring about that everything will last twice as long, that it will be twice as expensive and that twice as much dissatisfaction will be with people. And the problems won't be solved. So the rational administration certainly is, but let's look at all the factors that give it and let's not appreciate it just by the numerical size of the population or by the area of land which should be done and smaller parts like Istria can make a significant contribution to their unprafkiss in order to say attitudes, and I think that should be taken. Let's just say at the trade court where one draft law in 2010 was abolished by the current minister, I said it was simply unfair for Istria that he who was the fourth was abolished and since seven of them remained, so the three who were weaker. Let's not do the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58570	We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58571	Very clear. There's a little different thinking about what centralised and decentralisation is. The new state administration organisations have nothing to do with centralised and decentralisation. If you ask me, I don't have anything, 100% income tax goes to you, I don't mind, profit tax goes to you. I'm sorry. It's centralised and decentralisation. But then we know that we will be dealing with health care and that you will pay both doctors and officials who you have placed in hospitals and local and primary health care, that you will be engaged in paying for teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. It's called centralization, the tax administration is never decentralised in the world. Taxes as management are income collection and even for local self-government, most of them are carried out by the state administration, and how it will be organised when it is rational, it has nothing to do with decentralisation and it is something else entirely. Are we going to talk about going to a different organization in the country so we're going to dislocate some services and locate them differently, but the location is something else. That tax administration can be if we talk about the West, about Pula, so that's no problem. I've got to figure out if there's any personnel and nothing else. Well, it's just the frames and it's the only solution we have to talk about, but let's not confuse the concepts, having a dislocated is one thing and a decentralised tax as a administration will never be because nowhere in the world is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58572	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the minister, the deputy and the assistant. Tomorrow we will continue with a united debate on three legislative proposals, which is the final proposal for a law amending the Law on the area of special state care, amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. It's agreed that the debate on behalf of the club will take 20 minutes. Have a good night! Session interrupted in 20.42 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58573	We move to the Final Proposal of the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 519. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that we are, but it's not like that, it was against that vote. We'll do it again, we'll do it again, I saw it was against you. We'll do it again. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Please score now. I find that, with 86 votes for and 15 against, we have agreed to discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I ask Minister Slavko Linic to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Based on the discussions held on the Final Proposal of the Tax Administration Act, the Government proposed an amendment. In accordance with Article 19(3), in a way that reads: "The tax authority of a child is applied to the presence of parents, guardians, foster parents or persons entrusted to care and care if this is not possible under the circumstances in the presence of a professional person, the Centre for Social Work.". In Article 19, paragraph 2, the word "youth" is deleted and the words "youth person" are replaced by "child". In this way with this amendment we have very clearly defined the concept of a child and all in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of a Child where the concept of a child is marked as being a person under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58575	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving for the adoption of amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that this amendment has been accepted by 80 votes in favour, 11 against and 21 with a abstention. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the IDS Club and the independent representative Furi Radin and the representative, Nansi Tyreli. I'm asking the Minister to show up on the amendments submitted. First, the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1 to Article 84
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58576	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58577	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 1. IDS representative club and independent representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58578	The government does not accept the amendment because we did not establish the territorial structure of the tax administration by law, but the government will lay down a regulation on the internal structure of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58579	Is there one of the motions to explain the amendment? There isn't. No, Furia Radina's gone. IDS counseling club, can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58580	So since the old law stated the tax exposures of the second order. As I stated in the debate, I would just once again refer to the Declaration on Regional Development and Unity of Istria, which was unanimously with all parties brought to the Istria County Assembly where it is said, we are particularly looking for an urgent halt to the process of moving the regional headquarters of the state institutions from Istria to Rijeka and the return of the displaced institutions from Rijeka back to Istria. For now, it is a trade court, customs and the Croatian Pensions Institute. Based on other inscriptions, I have the impression that he is trying to transfer the tax administration from Pazin to Rijeka. I don't think that's good. At the very least, we saw during the introduction of fiscal registers that Istria was the least-infringing area. And we believe that Istria deserves to retain institutions by its development as a region because decentralisation means decentralisation of powers. And the best example is when the issue of construction permits was transferred to the county that Istria managed to reduce it very quickly. I think that amendment should come in. And that we want the IRS, so second order, the office stays in Istria. Therefore, please vote on the amendment. I hope that you will see the fact that Istria is left without all state institutions that it as a region definitely doesn't deserve in any way. And I say the County Assembly where the members of all parties, so the SDP were inside, accepted this conclusion unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58581	I would like to thank Agent Walter Boluncic. And I am voting on Amendment 1 of the IDS Representatives Club and Independent Representative Furi Radin. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Please state to the Ministers for Amendment of Representative Nancy Tyrelli to Article 4. Amendment 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58582	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment for the reasons that the proposals contained in the amendment are contained in the other articles of the law. Therefore, Article 12(2) provides that the opinion, instructions and working methodologies adopted by the Central Office of the Tax Administration must apply to the part-time work and be binding on all tax administrations. In addition, Article 8 of the same Act, the Tax Administration shall also carry out other transactions and, among them, the determination of disproportionate assets in relation to the declared revenue prescribed in Article 63. So the other articles are defined what is proposed in the amendment to Article 4 so we do not feel that it is necessary to repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58583	Representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58584	I thank the Ministers for the explanation. This was a way of clarifying what was written in Articles 12 and 8 even more accurately. In fact, we are now in a situation that the tax administration's opinion is binding within the IRS itself, but it is not binding on taxpayers, which leads to taxpayers simply not knowing what to do and how to do and then finally to each IRS being interpreted differently. So this was the intention in this direction to make what the IRS opinion was publicly published and to be binding as a guideline and as an opinion for all those participating in the tax and tax collection process itself. And as regards Article 8 of the Tax Administration, I also wanted to contribute to this amendment that, on the basis of the tax paid, any tax administration has an obligation at the same time to determine the origin of the property that has been purchased, which I consider to contribute to less situations like this to run for who it is and how it acquired the property. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58585	I am voting on Amendment 1 to Parliament's Nancy Tyrelli which the government does not accept. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58586	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment for the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen professionalisation in the Tax Administration, which is why it considers it necessary to separate the government's mandate from the mandate or from the election of the Head of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58587	Representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58588	Minister, I don't understand how you're denominating the government's mandate from the prime minister's office when the leader is elected by the government. That's what the law says. So we have a situation where the government is choosing the head of the IRS for a period of 5 years, and the government is in a term of four years which we consider to be a political function, on a proposal from the Government to elect a leader on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. And I don't really see that this is how we separate the government from the head of the IRS and do any professionalization in that part of the IRS because it is proposed by the Minister, elected by the Government, and what now after the year that he comes, which is a professionalisation when the other government is going to change him at the same time that we think this is a political function and that it should be tied to the mandate. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58589	Who's in favor of Amendment 2 to Nancy Tyrelli that the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number three of the same representative. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58590	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58591	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 4 of the same agent to the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58592	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the reason why we believe that the Tax Administration Act specifically prescribes compensation in the event of temporary incompetence for the work of the IRS officers, and this is exclusively in cases of work injury or professional illness, and all to further ensure normal work for the employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58593	Representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58594	Minister, in your explanation, I expected you to try to explain to me why and why the IRS employees deserve to be a special category of citizens who are protected in a special way by the law on compulsory health insurance. So we are now coming into a situation if a tax administration employee suffers a job injury in order to be able to function in a quality way they must be paid 100% in the case of a professional illness, so he must be paid 18 months in full, and then paid in the amount of 50% of any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but this does not apply to the employee of the Tax Administration who has been paid full-time 100% of the professional illness or injury at work. I only ask you to be correct and good for all of us to explain to us what makes the IRS staff in this case different, better and more valuable than any other worker who suffers a work injury or a professional illness at any other workplace. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58595	I'm asking who's in favor of amendment number four, by attorney Nancy Tyrelli, whom the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No 5 to Article 71
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58596	The Government of the Republic does not accept for the reason that we consider the Director of the Tax Administration to be a state official, and therefore the Official Court is not responsible for the conduct of proceedings against civil servants but solely against civil servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58597	Representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58598	Therefore, the Ministers of this paragraph shall be prescribed when criminal proceedings or proceedings have been brought against officials on grounds of serious injury to official and working duties when the violation of such a nature is necessary in order to remain in the service of that official while the proceedings itself may harm the interests of the citizens. So far in your law, it could be, and we're asking it to be mandatory. Because in these circumstances, we feel that a distance from the service of such an official who has committed such an act should not be prescribed as an option but rather prescribed as a obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58599	Comrade Tyrell, you have now given an explanation for your sixth amendment, not for the fifth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58600	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58601	But I will now give your fifth amendment to the plea. Who is the amendment number five of Parliamentarian Nancy Tyrelli who is not accepted by the government? The amendment didn't get the required majority. We're moving on to Amendment Six. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58602	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. The initiation of criminal proceedings and proceedings for a serious violation of official duty may be a reason for a distance from the service and in accordance with Article 112. Law on civil servants. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Tax Administration Act is prescribed by the Director of the Tax Administration to vacate corruption cases with the mark of corruption from the Deputy Officers' Office, which is an additional measure in the fight against corruption in the ranks of officials and subsistence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58603	Although we've heard the proposer's explanation, I'm giving a word to the applicant, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58604	Now I'm going to explain the fifth amendment because...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58605	You can't explain the fifth amendment now. I'm sorry, the fifth amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58606	No, not the sixth amendment. So, this sixth amendment. One more time. So, if someone commits a criminal offence or a violation here, they say they can be replaced but they don't have to, that's to say, that a report can be filed against him or should not be filed against him. We now have a very serious case in which no application has been filed by the IRS authorities where people who embezzle and who are building criminal acts remain in the IRS. So with this amendment, we wanted to contribute that you, as Minister, have at all times the powers of both the Director and the Director of the Tax Administration, because you do not now have it in this law. If the Director or Director of the Tax Administration commits a criminal offence, we in this law do not have a mechanism for someone at the Ministry of Finance who will launch any procedure against him, to open any investigative action to determine the actual situation. And it's a very, very serious situation that leads to this situation that we currently have and that we are witnesses at the Ministry of Finance and the IRS not to repeat every time as a parrot the same thing that the IRS is about. We all know that very well, and by not accepting such an amendment, you allow yourself as a minister to have no authority over the Director of the Tax Administration. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-21-0.u58607	I'm voting Amendment number 6 of Parliament's Nancy Tyrelli, which is not accepted by the government. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. That concludes our statement on the amendments. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Law-making requires most of the votes of all MPs, so 76. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the Tax Administration Act has been passed by 78 votes to 32 against and one abstention.
