ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29798	Now we will combine two points and that - a proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 44. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 41/1990/ - Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 98(1), paragraph 6. The Law on Roads / "National Journal" No 81/2011./ The Proposal for a Decision was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You took the materials to the benches. Does he want a representative of the motionor, or committee? President Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29799	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall present a proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 44. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the Club of Representatives of the IDS, the Club of Representatives of the HSU Act of 15 November 2012 proposing that it be included in the agenda of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. At its 38th session held on 29 January 2013, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 44. Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act. The Legislative Committee also considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 12 December 2012 which is estimated to be the provision of Article 44. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests is clear and precise and there is no need for its credible interpretation. That's the government's opinion. The Committee on Legislatives also considered the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, which assessed this proposal as established. Therefore, after the debate, the Committee unanimously found that the proposal for a credible interpretation was established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Decision on the granting of a credible interpretation of Article 44. The Act amending the Law on Forests and in the text attached to this report shall form an integral part thereof. In fact, the proposal states that a credible interpretation of Article 44 is to be given. Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act. In particular, in the question whether the basic, craft or other means of self-government of the Croatian forestry and labour organisations in the activities of forestry are referred to in Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law amending and supplementing the Ex-Legal Forests Act has passed to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia if they were entered in the balance sheet on 31 December 1990 and is it possible to prove otherwise. The entry into the balance sheet on 31 December 1990 cannot be considered to be an unsustainable presummation of the transfer of assets to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia but rather subsistence, while the claimant is obliged to prove his claims. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act provides for forest undertakings from the basic crafts and other resources of the then self-government interest community of the forestry industry of Croatia and then working organisations in the activities of forestry and established by the balance sheet on 31 December 1990 became state property on the date of entry into force of that law. The literal and non-critical interpretation of this provision of the law has led to the fact that the Republic of Croatia, through the competent State Attorney's Office, which is represented by ex-offo in these matters, is registered as the owner of various properties which in no way represent properties that would be related to the forest or concern for them and their maintenance, such as city streets, squares, land under buildings and the like, which could not possibly have been the footing of legislation, i.e. legislator. At the request of the legislator, only the properties associated with forests or the care of forests and their maintenance shall be registered as state property shall refer to the provision of Article 18(2) of the same amendments and additions to the state ownership of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia by that law to a public undertaking in the activities of the forestry of the Croatian Forests, a public forest management company and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. The legislator's intensities should be taken into account in the context of the provision of Article 7. The law amending the laws establishing public undertakings is NN 6/90, which is amended in Article 18(3). The forest law, the consolidated text, in a way that reads: "The forest company is owned by the Republic of Croatia". And in Article 160(2), it was deleted, and it read, "On the day of entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Forests". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of the statement, such a credible interpretation is given. Then, secondly, since the debate is united, let me then state the opinion of the Committee and the proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 98(1), paragraph 6. Road law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted by the Committee for Legislatives to the President of the Croatian Parliament by a representative in the Croatian Parliament, acting on 12 December 2012, with a proposal also to be included in the Parliament's agenda. I now submit a report on the proposal for a credible interpretation of this article. At its 36th session held on 22 January 2013, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 98(1), point 6. The Law on Roads, which led the President of the Croatian Parliament, as I have already stated, was submitted by Branko Hrg representative in the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Legislatives has examined the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 3 January 2013 which is estimated to be the provision of Article 98(1), point 6. The Law on Roads is clear and precise and there is no need for its credible interpretation. The Committee on Legislatives also considered the opinion of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, which assessed this proposal as also unfounded. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously found that the proposal for the submission of a credible interpretation was not established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to take a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 98(1), paragraph 6. The Law on Roads, in the text attached to this report, makes it an integral part of it. In fact, the legal provision clearly found that each road is also an unclassified road, a building and there is no basis for any interpretation of whether the roads which are not built are therefore meant to be considered or not by an unclassified road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29800	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's not present, so he's losing the right to discuss the club. Then the IDS club and independent representative Furia Radina and colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29801	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, this proposal to give a credible interpretation of Article 44. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests is the result, as last year's intensive activities of the Republic of Croatia represented by the State Attorney's Office, which, by virtue of the provisions of that law, have been initiated by a truly large number of judicial proceedings aimed at establishing the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and most often at the expense of the units of local self-government. What prompted us from the IDS Club to take this initiative is the fact that in last 2012 certain relations in society are being resolved, and in this particular case property-legal relations based on the regulation adopted in the 1990s means the regulation of the last century. I don't need to particularly emphasize what has changed since then to the Republic of Croatia. The simplest thing is to say that almost everything has changed and the rules apply equally. The relationships that existed at the time, the social structure that existed at the time, is completely different than it is today, but this does not seem to be actually an obstacle to property and legal relations being dealt with by the rules of that time. The question being asked is whether the rules of that time were applied in the same way as when they were brought in, i.e. without insufficient critical analysis and access. If we look at this from the aspect of the units of local and regional regional self-government, the systems of the organisation of that segment of society are completely different than it was at the time of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Forests of the 1990s and therefore the consequences of the application of this law have a completely different effect than at the time of the adoption of that regulation. As I did, the State Attorney's Office on behalf of the Republic of Croatia has initiated a large number of judicial proceedings aimed at the establishment and rights of state ownership. With detailed insight into the structure of such requirements, it turns out that the state's attorney's office has defined itself as one, I will allow myself to show not a sufficiently critical approach in my own actions and in my own requirements, which included a number of properties that are neither forest nor forest land for its purpose. I mean first of all on real estate, I apologize, which in nature represent various facilities, municipal and public purposes such as streets, squares, social homes, playgrounds, land under buildings and others. Therefore, we representatives from the club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly believe it is necessary to accept the proposed interpretation in order to actually mitigate the consequences of the activities on the establishment of the right of ownership of the state, I repeat not in the woods or in the forest area, but in the municipal and public infrastructure. Local unit, a unit of local self-government that was built and edited by means exclusively of municipalities and cities and which represent significant resources for local self-government units. I therefore believe that this was, in fact, not only the legislator's intrinsicity in the adoption of this regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29802	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Pedja Grbin and Vedran Babic will speak. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29803	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The right can be interpreted in several ways, it can be interpreted languageically only by reading those words that are on paper without thinking about its meaning, can be interpreted historically during the moment of norm adoption, and can be interpreted telelogically. In accordance with the objective that the legislator had at the time when a regulation was laid down. In one of his speeches, President Josipovic said that we still need to learn in Croatia to interpret the regulations according to their goal. In the U.S., they learned that a long time ago. That is what enabled them to bring the Constitution into the 18th century and today meet the needs of modern society. When reading the standard of Article 44. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Forests of the People's News 41st of 1990, clearly what was the will, the true will of the legislator. And that will was to fund the establishment of forest companies from basic crafts and other means of existing self-government interest communities of forestry and other work organisations in the activities of forestry. Therefore, to own the Republic of Croatia only those assets that are truly used for the maintenance of forests, for their use, etc. The legislator's intensities were that this property would become the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. And that's not a question to anyone. It is clear to all of us that when the legislator adopted such a standard, he did not consider that the ownership of the Republic of Croatia under the auspices of basic crafts and other means should have come the streets, squares, land under the building, etc. Unfortunately, the clumsy formulation of which both counterpart Anticevic and counterpart Sponza made it very clear that too literal and non-critical interpretations were found to be the only means of proof for this balance of Croatian forests on 31 December 1990. So there was a very large contradiction in one norm. First the norm says what constitutes state property, and then how it's proven. Unfortunately, in Croatia, many things take years and decades to see their real impact, so was the case in the case of this standard. I fully understand that it was 1990, a year of big change when the social system and society were to be arranged in a completely new way. However, this does not prevent us from taking into account both the purpose and the purpose of this regulation into consideration today, in one way we intervene, in accordance with the powers conferred upon us by the Rules of Procedure, to interpret it authentically. And that is why the view is that by authentic interpretation, especially if we are looking at the aim of the norm, we can only conclude that the legislator's intensity was just that, in the possession of the Republic of Croatia, basic crafts and other means enter and that we must insist on it, and that the entry into the balance sheet can only be an auxiliary, evidence that cannot have the key meaning that all other norms, e.g. spatial plans, land allocation solutions, judicial rulings on the establishment of ownership rights, etc. This interpretation will not lead to adverse consequences for the Republic of Croatia. It does not pass anything by force of the law into the ownership of units of local self-government, owned by private, natural persons, etc. With this interpretation, we are merely establishing what was the will of the legislator, which is to move this property into the ownership of the Republic of Croatia unless someone else, on a stronger legal basis, can prove his right of ownership on the property. And that is why the SDP club will support this proposed identical interpretation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29804	Honored vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I'll be a little more brief than my colleague Peja Grbin. The SDP club supports the Committee on Legislatives' decision, and I think that counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic was clear. The SDP Club will therefore accept the proposal for a decision not to give the credibility of the interpretation of Article 98. Article 1 Point 6 Laws on the roads. Namely, as the government and the ministry have said so far, and have concluded everything in the law is clear. I honestly do not understand one thing, colleague Hrg this law has been passed or in force since the summer of 2011. The HSS has been participating in the government, I believe that you were also at the top of the party and a member of the presidency, and I think it was time for you to react to the party's bodies to clarify some things if you think it is necessary. Here, thank you. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29805	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29806	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have to laugh at my colleague Babic on your last comment. Well, I'm not a lawyer, and I don't understand these things, but I'm asked by people from the Velika Gorica profession who have prayed for a credible interpretation of art. Point 6 point (a) is replaced by the following: Law on roads NN (84/11). From 2007 onwards, before the adoption of the Road Law, which entered into force on 29 July 2011. As said here, the town of Velika Gorica has launched a number of procedures to determine the right of ownership on the Polish roads that the city maintained and took care of. These proceedings are being conducted before the Zagreb Commercial Court. Since the Law on Roads entered into force in 2011, the city felt that the law would help end disputes more quickly, but rather than resolve disputes faster, the matter was complicated since the opposite parties interpreted Article 98(1) of Article 6. Road law. The Polish route was considered to be under Article 98(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Under that name of the second road in the area of settlements and cities, which is defined by the unclassified roads. While the other side of the County State Attorney's Office claims they don't fall under that formula. So this is from practice. The Law on the municipal economy stipulates that units of local self-government maintain unclassified roads. If the Polish roads that the city has maintained for years already fall under a non-classified road, they shall be based on the disputed point of Article 98. The city needs to be maintained. If priority is given to the interpretation of the County State Attorney's Office, the Polish routes should be maintained by the Republic of Croatia. In addition, where Polish routes fall under non-classified roads pursuant to Article 98(6) of Article 98(6), their registration procedure shall be conducted in a non-partisan procedure and there shall be no need to conduct proceedings before the Commercial Courts. This is because of all the above, because of the problems in implementing the clear law to which it is now meant that this does not give a credible interpretation is considered to be all clear, people have problems because of all of this and that there is no uniform position around point 6 of Article 98. The only one who can give a credible interpretation is the one who passed the law. You felt it was not necessary to give a credible interpretation. I hope that this answer not to give credible interpretation will help people in practice to solve everyday problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29807	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote a fee on the motion for a decision
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29808	Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 44 Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, National No 41/1990. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the 114 votes in favour and 2 abstentions have been decided to give a credible interpretation of Article 44. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, National No 41/1990 years in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29820	And we move to - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, PZE No. 242 Proposer of the Law is representative Mario Habek. You received the proposal by mail. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144-150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29821	Thank you very much. Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Here is an amendment to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia which I have prepared. By passing the law on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia on 30 December 1992, the Croatian Parliament established a territorial structure of counties, towns and municipalities. Later, the law was amended and the locals of individual settlements were complemented, expressing their desire to move their settlement to another structural unit, municipality or city and their legitimate will, the representatives always respected. Today we also have before us a proposal to amend this law in the section relating to Varazdin County and Poljanec village and the legitimate wish of a large majority of locals to become part of the city of Ludbrega from the Martianec municipality. By passing the law in 92, the legislator is respecting many reasons some of which were politically determined to make Poljanec a part of the municipality of Donji Martianec and to separate from the then municipality of Ludbreg. For clarifications I must meet colleagues and colleagues that the settlement Poljanec directly leans on the town of Ludbreg as the first settlement of Ludbreg on the state road to Varazdin. The locals of this village have always met their needs in Ludbreg and so on after the separation... Martian children from Poljanica continue to attend school in Ludbreg using kindergartens in Ludbreg and locals continued to use all health and cultural services in the city of Ludbreg. For the paradox to be larger, the only settlement Poljanec in the new Municipality of Ludbreg remained to be used by the post office number Ludbreg in postal traffic while the rest of the settlements of the Martianec Municipality received a new postal number. In addition to all the above mentioned centre of the Martianec municipality, he was twice as far away from the locals... from Ludbreg. So today, the local settlements of Poljanec who want their children and have to trust in guarding one of the three kindergartens in Ludbreg because they do not have kindergartens they have to pay almost full economic price of this service. One of the main reasons why the locals launched this initiative is the fewer opportunities the Lower Martynec Municipality provides for children and young people. Ever since the existence of a field school in Poljanac, children have attended teaching in Ludbreg, and parents are still interested in having children continue to attend the same school. The settlement Poljanec, due to its natural proximity to Ludbreg, has developed a strong economic activity so that the income of the municipality of Donji Martianec has been participated with large funds but in investments in the village itself with much less. Since all these years, the municipality of Donji Martianec has not adequately addressed the issue of kindergartens of one-way school and other problems that have plagued the local settlements of Poljanec, they have decided to launch a legal secession procedure from the Municipality of Martianec and association to the city of Ludbreg. In the referendum 65% of citizens supported this action, and they collected unanimous consent from the assembly of the Varazdin County, the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Martianec and the City Council of Ludbreg and asked me to conduct this initiative as their representative in the Croatian Parliament. This article regulates the initiative of the local settlements Poljanec, which have launched an initiative to extract their settlement from the Municipality of Martianec and to join the city of Ludbreg. The initiative was supported by 407 locals or 65.22% of the total number of adult citizens from the voters' list. Back in '93, when the former municipality of Ludbreg locale Poljanec wanted to stay in the town of Ludbrega because of the dissatisfaction with most of their needs which fall within the self-government of local self-government in the area... directly bordering. [[Because of the speedy reading, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Most Polish residents are facing the city of Ludbreg and meeting their life needs as I have already listed preschool education, primary education, primary health care, social... culture etc. The settlement Poljanec is the largest settlement in the Municipality of Martianec and participates most in the achievement of revenues for the budget of the municipality, and in return it gets a villa little or nothing. The locals are dissatisfied with spending resources without respecting the scale criteria and achieving the incomes of a local committee. I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed amendment and thus support the wishes of the Polish locals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29822	Thanks, buddy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Committee for Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government and Committee Chairman Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29823	Madam Vice President. The Committee for Local, Regional Self-Government held a session of 23rd January where he discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys, which was delivered by Mario Habek to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal committee itself was not present at the committee meeting but apologized and suggested that the debate on the draft law be held without the presence of the applicant. The President of the Committee pointed out that the proposed law separates Poljanec from the Municipality of Martianec and belongs to the city of Ludbreg, and that the proposed law is accompanied by the signatures of the support of the locals Poljanec for the separation of the settlement Poljanec from the Municipality of Martianec, the indication of the municipal council of the Municipality of Martianec, the indication of the County Assembly and the conclusion of the city council. The debate sets out the opposite views of the members of the Committee on Fulfilled Form and the need to adopt a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas. The members of the committee agreed to refer the proposal to the competent ministry to propose amendments to the provisions of the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas in the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes a change in the area of the settlement or the demarcation of the settlement in such a way as to prescribe the obligation to call a referendum on the separation or addition of the unit to local self-government. Since the Committee did not have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposed draft law since it did not arrive on the committee and since the Committee did not have the opinion then, the Committee president proposed not to hold a vote on the proposal for this law and that such proposal did not receive the necessary majority of votes. And after the debate was held, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government could not establish a position on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia, since the votes had been shared 4 votes for the proposal of this law, 2 votes against and 2 votes abstentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29824	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29825	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning, I would like to stress that the SDP club will support this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in particular that the SDP Club will support the initiative of the village of Poljanec for the separation from the Municipality of Martianec or the accession of the city of Ludbreg. Two basic reasons why the SDP club will support this bill. The first reason is, above all, that this initiative is therefore fully legitimate, all the legal procedures laid down in Article 30 are respected. Laws on areas of county, cities and municipalities, which is visible from the materials you get on the benches, the reasoning of this decision. Namely, in these materials you have a list of citizens, adult citizens from the list of voters from which it is evident that 65.22% of the local settlements Poljanec undoubtedly demonstrated its will to separate from the municipality of Martianec and to join the city of Ludbreg. Furthermore, in the same materials, you have a positive indication of the Martianec municipality’s municipal council which concludes that the initiative by the Polish locals is legitimate, implemented in accordance with the law and does not dispute their initiative. Furthermore, there is also an indication of the County Assembly of the Varazdin County, which also sees this request as legitimate, implemented in accordance with the law and agrees with the initiative of the local settlement Poljanec, and ultimately we have the conclusion of the City Council of the City of Ludbreg which is also positively evident about the intention of joining the settlement Poljanec with the administrative borders of the Municipality of Ludbreg. By accepting this decision, this requirement, this initiative also brings together certain repercussions, problems that primarily relate to the backs of the Martian municipality itself. In fact, the Martianec municipality was probably already planning a budget for 2013, and most likely, in the projection of that budget, it combined those fiscal incomes relating to this settlement, which are the incomes primarily in line with the law on the financing of units of local self-government such as the tax, such as public compensation, such as income tax and other obligations stemming from that law. However, if the municipal council of the Municipality of Martianec is aware of the reduction of its budget, it is therefore aware of the problems that arise, unless the Municipality of Martianec was in doubt to give a positive indication of this proposal I do not see any reason why he would have this home. Another reason why the SDP club will support this initiative is that famous principle of subsidiarity that requires us not only of the European Charter of Local Self-Government but also of a common sense of conduct. In fact, this principle simply tells us the following fact, which is that all those decisions, all those solutions that can be made at local level, do not need to be transferred to national, or... for the level of central government. Therefore, without entering the reasons that the applicant stated, so that which has been stated by his colleague Habek here, I see no reason for us to discuss, to decide instead of the Polish locals what this initiative brings them good, or because this initiative brings them bad. I see neither the reason nor the need to ignore, change or question the will of most Polish locals. In the end, when I was going through the archives of the previous assemblies of this House, I found dozens of debates, or decisions on the establishment of new municipalities, but if I'm not mistaken, I think this is the first time we've decided to single out a settlement from one local self-government unit to another unit of local self-government, so maybe it's a precedent if I'm not mistaken, and I believe not. Why this is happening, why in the Republic of Croatia we have almost 600 units of local self-government, of which hundreds of units of local self-government are small, which are below 2,000 inhabitants. I would not say that this is some kind of cap or denunciation already because of the centralization of the central state that began in the 1990s and that led to the smaller fiscal rights of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia today, having fewer responsibilities than the local communities in the former state. And our citizens are very pragmatic, and they know that they would be able to develop local policy at all, so that they can decide on their own minimum fiscal capacity on their own, so that they can have their own resources, and they have to have community status as a minimum. So far, laws relating to local self-government such as the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, such as the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, such as the Law on PPDS and all other laws governing the status of local self-government, have to say that all these laws have actually run over time and that their duration has passed, that these laws are non-functional, non-operational, expensive, and that in many cases they are unfair. So today you have a whole series, I believe 30% of municipalities and cities whose development index is above 75% of the Croatian Development Index, some even above 100% of the Croatian Development Index, but these cities and these municipalities are also in one of the protected categories, whether it's a mountain-mounted area or a PPDS, while you have a whole series of municipalities and cities that are below 75% of the development index, well below 60% of the development index, and none of the categories of these, let's call them privileged protected areas. You have environments or units of local self-government where unemployment is higher than that in the Republic of Croatia, it is more than 25 to 40 total unemployment in these units of local self-government, as well as few people working in the economy but working in public enterprises, working in the public sector, and since public sector wages are far higher in the private sector, and since, as a rule, such municipalities and cities fall into one of these protected categories, the budgets of these municipalities are much higher than the budget of those municipalities, for example, where unemployment is below 5%, in which employment is 90% in the private manufacturing sector. However, because these municipalities are not in the category of protected areas because wages in the private sector are much less than in the public sector, because these municipalities do not receive grants from the state budget, their budgets are much, much smaller and for this reason some municipalities located in areas of special state concern and which receive up to 80% of the grant of the state budget can afford to buy official cars, they can afford two to three paid deputy mayors or mayors, they can also afford not to listen and not respect the right of local self-government. For all these reasons that I have cited and those that I have not listed, I think it is quite visible that this situation is unsustainable and that we need a complete reform of local self-government. I am convinced that this government has both the courage and the will to move forward with this reform in order to strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, but also the strengthening of the responsibility of local self-government units and one of the objectives of such reform must be to strengthen local self-government, local self-government as genuine legal persons with their own fiscal and human resources with which they will then be able to decide to change, i.e. to create their own local policy. If such a reform is implemented, such a decision as we are making will be taken, as will be the initiative requested by the locals of Poljanec, no longer be on the agenda of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29826	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29827	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, as our colleague Mario Habek suggested. We will support it for the reason that the procedure has been carried out let's say so by law, because it is the democratic will of citizens who are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, because we Liberal Democrats are always trying to articulate what the citizens themselves want and for the simple practical reason why and at the head of the municipality of Martianec is our fellow liberal. But that question opens up separations, specifically secessions, in fact some questions are also raised. It's primarily an election year. The second in the course of the financial year, in the course of the last four years after the local elections, I am specifically talking about the Martianec municipality there has been a change in the structure and in the city council in the executive government and not denying the right of the locals of the Poljanec Local Committee to give their wish, which was articulated in 1993 when the municipalities and cities were formed, that they would now ultimately meet their demands. However, knowing the very good circumstances, the situation in that municipality and political and social and economical I will give just a few examples so that some other let us say the same will of the citizens in a way that separates them from some other environments. When I said in the election year, I hope that the administration offices, or those in charge of the voters' list, will be able to resolve, that there will be no doubts. As far as the financial year is concerned, of course, it will be necessary to rebalance after the second reading. The additional costs that will take place in the municipality itself will be to amend the overall development plans, the municipal infrastructure strategy, the social infrastructure. And as mentioned in the very request that I can and I don't have to agree. However, it also opens certain dilemmas of the disputed kindergarten. In fact, as far as I am aware in late 2009, the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Martianec and the Commissioner themselves initiated according to the competent resolution ministries support for the construction of kindergartens because it was a dry need of the locals themselves. Several projects related to municipal infrastructure have been initiated. I'm not saying that until 2009, nothing was done, but very little. With this 20% or 19% total if we go by simple math, the Martianec municipality has about 3800 inhabitants. 700 and something about it's about as far as it gets out, crossing into the city of Ludbreg. That's about 20% somewhere. If, according to simple mathematics, there is so much and less revenue in the budget, then there will certainly be a question of the realization of the minimum funding that the Martian municipality can and must obtain to be able to run for the EIB as regards the construction of kindergartens. Because their budget is somewhere in total tax revenue is about 2 million and 202 million and 300,000 kuna. 20% is huge money. Another thing was that they also ran for a project to rebuild the social home. So they work both on the social programme and on social infrastructure. And that's where the realisation will come in the long run. I'll read this part that was in an explanation that I definitely can't agree with. According to the locals, they are dissatisfied with spending resources without respecting the criteria of size and achievement of the income of a local committee. So here we are sitting in the House a few, many, can tell a lot of the mayors and mayors and I believe that since 2010, in 2011 not to say in 2012 that many of our local committees, i.e. settlements, would like to stand out simply because the revenues of the budget in the local environments have fallen drastically. As for the additional costs, changes to the operational programmes, changes to the plans of the strategic ones that I am responsible for and I know by 2009 there was no change in the Municipality of Poljanec, I'm not saying that the municipality started to function in 2009 but it was done in a very different way. And what's very interesting is the main initiator of the secession to say so is the local resident of the Martianec settlement, former head of the municipality who was in power for 16 years and who had already been in '93. the possibility to initiate and initiate procedures and meet the local committees concerned. Why am I saying all this? Of course I could've gone without it, I could've, but I have a responsibility to both the locals of the Martian municipality and the Polish people. Did the person in question get to know them completely that in Ludbreg they would be paying a cut, that they had a larger municipal fee? So we can say ignorance doesn't aliminate us from responsibility. In fact, the procedure itself, it's all done by law, I have no doubt, but about this means that a series of additional costs that will be caused by the community itself, do you think, in the future, a referendum? Are these letters of support, I'm saying I'm not denying the right to have anyone checked? Whether public administration offices have signed, whether they are authentic etc., etc. So I'm just pointing and pointing to certain possible abuses, and abuses for the simple reason that I know the background of the story. What I would like to point out is that these problems that the municipality will have, otherwise for tax revenue data in the Municipality of Martianec, are projected according to the 2013 Budget, are by number and letter 585 kuna per capita. With an additional one, it means communal compensation and some other incomes, it amounts to 785 kuna per capita. This law means that changes in the area are based on the Constitution. Our local self-government also has the foundations in the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter The RS constitution also says local self-government units have the right to own revenues. But also in the third paragraph, the final paragraph of this article states that they are entitled to help unless they themselves are able to respect and meet the needs of citizens and locals. And given the circumstances I was disappointed, even though it was nice for me in Krk, last year we were and of course every mayor goes looking for his fellow chief and talk about problems etc. The Municipality of Baška 10 thousand kuna income per capita. This is not just a topic for Minister Bauk, this is a topic for Minister Linic, this is a topic for Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development. Is the parallel development of the Republic of Croatia visible? It's not. How will the mayor of the municipality explain the rebalancing of his city council now, will it be possible to realize the long planned, three years of planned kindergarten and in some way safeguarding funds, scrapping funds so that it can be participated for the construction of kindergarten? This is certainly an appeal from this pay phone and the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance to assist and ultimately to receive a kindergarten after 20 years. If nothing else is open, there are certain funds, I hope it works. But here, I use the opportunity to appeal and help for this very reason, which will be denied by 20% of the income by those who have already provided the budget with this intention. The second thing, so we don't have this happening to us, I don't know my colleagues Vinkovic, I don't know Ivanc, Skvarić, Natalija in Varazdin and we all over Croatia because I believe that the vast majority of our citizens are unhappy with investing in municipal infrastructure, social infrastructure, but not with our mistake, we have it in our plans with the operational multi-yearly whatever we want, we simply don't have financial resources. I think it's finally time, and what my colleague Mateo thinks I read well, that the competent resolution ministries are going into a comprehensive reform, tax reform not only of real estate tax, it's a segment, to go into the revision of local self-government but in a way that does not deny the right of citizens but the same as it says in Article 138. The constitution provides for its income, but we must adapt our statutes to those powers for which we have the money. I remember in 2008 when the Regional Development Act was passed, so there were talks about it, we in the executive power were overjoyed because the figure of 2500 thousand kuna per capita that this should be the basic revenue of the budget of all units of local self-government alignment, etc., I said we will finally be able to breathe. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. This is what I'm saying today, I think in the vast majority of local self-government colleagues will agree, especially the continent, Slavonia, Lika, Dalmatia, I think there are no or no problems. That if the situation does not start urgently during this year in the rooted reforms of local self-government, the question is what will we do at local level in 2014 will be able to work, function and in what way. To get back on the subject, the HNS will support it. We do not deny the right of citizens, however, we support it and we will always support it not only because it is the Constitution but also our political belief. The second thing, we will also support it for a basic reason, I believe it will achieve its goals and needs far more quality in the middle that it has, will give them more expensive, so ultimately it is worth paying if the service is obtained. I also repeat, I would like this to initiate all the needs of the local community that I have listed and many others, and also once again to appeal to the competent ministries that this law will I assume will be voted upon, has the support of the majority. It also means the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development to find a way not to deny the remaining 3100, 3200 people that these children in the municipality do not have kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29828	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. Joseph Salapic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29829	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice President Batinić, you have opened a different picture of this, we can say the law that should have passed the parliamentary procedure quickly. Here, indeed, with good intentions and constitutional legal possibility for citizens, there are certain problems. It would be crazy if it were just political reasons, there should be reasons for a number of communal nature, developmental. What you're saying is it's all about one reserve. I answered because I don't think it's a good thing that in the election year, especially when it comes to local elections, local elections are in five months. Such decisions, like these, so laws are made, because I think there was time for that. So you threw away a new picture when you said that the mayor of the municipality was 16 years old, who was the head of that community initiator of the idea. I agree with you in this statement that there are problems, they need to take a good look at future cases. This is not a precedent, it was and in our neighborhood the town of Nasice was separated from Požega-Slavon County for justified reasons due to the territorial connection of traffic and the like. And what is our common task, and I think we can all agree there, is really a comprehensive reform of our territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, especially the municipalities. Simple weather is different, we enter the European Union, it is more impossible, it is unnecessary for a municipality to exist for itself, that there is an office, a chief, a secretary and two employees, small budgets that cannot live without the help of the state budget, and simply the local environment is this small community, there is little to benefit from such small municipalities that I cannot finance myself. It will open up some broad debates, perhaps even problems here in the Parliament because some of them are fellow commissioners sitting here. But what we need to be aware of is the past time for municipalities and units of local self-government and administration to exist for themselves, should have their own purpose, and I believe that Croatia's entry into the European Union will change that will, and I believe that we should all have a desire to save on what we can save on. And I believe that the new structure will simply start a new time for Croatia in municipalities and cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29830	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29831	Well, an esteemed colleague and vice president, and the mayor in a joke, I might say Zagorje's work, but it's not a joke. There is no reason that as a representative who is here knows not enough the situation as you know it, is it practically your end or Habek, does not support this particularly because the full legal procedure is respected, but apparently behind this legal procedure is one covered conflict. Now I don't know who's who, and we'll probably find out from the agents who are coming, they come from that area. But what's interesting to me, and I'm also asking the question of what you said if all these citizens know, regardless of who the initiator is whether it's the head of the HSS, or it's the SDP, and that's measured against the HNS there, whether the citizens eventually know it's going to mean less funds to them in their own pocket. So, I will support, the HDSSB club will support this request, primarily in terms of the will of the citizens, but we will also advocate. First of all, someone was talking about the principle of subsidiarity to decide first of all, that such petitions as may be correct may not be. I note that there are a lot of the same signatures here, that citizens decide first of all through the referendum. And what's most interesting to me, Agent Habek knew before the government even knew her opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29832	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Vice President Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29833	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague Vinkovic, of course, is not a Zagorje business, is not who he is, because the chief himself does not question constitutional rights and the rights of citizens, in a way to say what they think and to separate, if they can get that service and what they practically want in the next environment. Namely, why I've been talking all this time about some of our chronology of events and the history of all this together just to point to certain illogicalities. And what you've noticed and I don't think I've missed the citizens' opinion in any way. But truly, I doubt the credibility of these signatures because I know people, I know a lot of things, maybe even too much, I'm not saying, God forbid I'm wrong. But I would be far safer if the authorities of the state administration, if it were a referendum or municipal service, of any kind that they had spent let's say that gathering of signatures or some other way would be better for citizens to respect. The correct thing would be to hold a referendum just for that part of the settlement. That's what I would like, I expected, and here I am glad that the minister came and I can direct it means that citizens' opinions of this type mean that they can cause certain business problems in the functioning of municipalities and cities to be respected through the form of a referendum by citizens themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29834	We've got two more replicas, and then we'll finish it before we break. Anna Lovrin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29835	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, a colleague of the vice president of this House. It seems to me that this Martian municipality will continue to lose its kindergarten for a long time as things go. And that's why I'm surprised I didn't hear you arguing. So why will it run out of kindergarten because the daily majority of parliaments vote laws imposing obligations on local self-government units, they are asked to do something, they are not provided with income for the job. No one's done an analysis when they're told they're going to make money. Here yesterday we had, for example, the Agricultural Land Act that we were talking about where local self-government units have to introduce agricultural directors to oversee, so a whole new service. There was no estimate of how much it would be coming from those 50% of the leases, etc. But it's only one law. There's a series of laws that we've been discussing here, we've been struggling to ask questions about local self-government, to consult the community of municipalities, and cities. Perhaps we should hear the minister whose portfolio is for that local self-government to say a word but no one's voice. So as these small units do all that, they finance what they are legally required to do, then they'll just see if there's anything in the law that doesn't exactly say that they have to have one or two kindergartens, but they're told to worry about whether they're going to have anything left with them. And about these doubts of yours, so they don't belong here anymore. It's too late, you said. I agree, we will respect what has been given to the citizens by law and constitution. It was in some political agitation there, perhaps, when citizens pleaded to be warned about it. but it would be worth considering, indeed, a possible amendment to the law because in such a legal provision, no one asks those citizens who remain in that unit from which some part of the settlement is isolated because their lives have deteriorated, accumulated or otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29836	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Vice President Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29837	Thank you very much. And even in the debate on behalf of the club, I have appealed to the competent ministries that these 20% of the funds that the municipality has already provided in the budget will not respect them now depending on if this law will come into force, the grip of power because I don't know from which sources to help the municipality. As for this second part, there will be no kindergarten, I cannot look back on my two mandates since 2005. For years, well, as mayor, I depended on the government at the time, only on it, that we didn't have any sources of income from the citizens themselves, that we weren't rationally lording and that we didn't use every kuna in the best possible way not to say from one that we created two. On your government, your previous governments couldn't rely. I hope so, and therefore I have pointed out from this pay phone certain problems that will happen, which are already happening, which are lifesaving, that it is necessary to reform local self-government and territorially to see, that it is not denying the right and the present small municipalities, but to see what their jurisdiction is. The second thing is also fiscal decentralisation because I think 20 years of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and so far the experience of leaders who were both future and city councils and political parties is an option that I think we are mature enough to have far more quality and more financial resources available. When we look at how much it's in the state budget, I don't think I'm going to make a lot of mistakes about a billion kuna that goes to the state over the one that goes to the local self-government. I believe with that money that a billion would come to local self-government would be a billion and 200 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29838	Thank you. And the Sun Head replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29839	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. You said units have the right to help, that's what the Constitution says. But don't over-count for state budget assistance, because as you can see, it's going to be even smaller. Finance Minister Linic announces budget rebalancing, announces new savings, and it is nice to appeal to your own coalition partners. I really think this was worth hearing, this kind of appeal from my own ranks, so to speak. But what I agree with you is that it's very unusual, which is that in the election year, something like this is approached by respecting and respecting the will of the locals. That's what I'm gonna talk about on behalf of the club and we're gonna back it up, of course. But the question and the good news that the minister showed up was that I thought I would have to refer the issue to my colleague, Habek, who could not really answer it. What about the other units that also addressed the initiatives to the ministry? Why is that on hold? And the HDZ Club will go with the amendment once we've already approached the amendments to the law, so it would be good to do that for other cities that have sent this initiative. And you've doubted the signatures of the locals, so I don't know if there's any doubt about any political incorrection or maybe political belonging, maybe that's what you're thinking. But here's when it was all wrapped up with a big secret so let's keep it from turning out like my colleague Vinkovic made a joke at Zagorac's expense, so you know that famous "I'm gonna sue you" so we shouldn't argue in that context when we're talking about such important issues. And Podravina has it because here's a colleague suggesting that we don't deny someone. So the more I'm going to talk about it on behalf of the club, but I also have to warn you, and I'm going to end up warning the locals that they're going to have to take out new IDs, that the government, or the proposing... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29840	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29841	... Thank you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Of course, the appeal for help to anyone other than the rest of the ministry is a logical sequence, I hope it will be a response. As far as I'm concerned, I haven't alluded to anyone, but I believe that the locals and the Polish and the Martian municipalities themselves and the councilmen themselves, because when the procedure is carried out the way it was conducted, you have those who are wondering, and you see this one says it's not so signed, so this one says that. I said people like "eat the wolf of donkeys," it's over, the procedure goes that way. And that's why I'm glad that the minister is here and that means what maybe a correction should be made in the law that such things are singled out to go exclusively through a referendum in a way that the authorities of the state only carry out for that settlement, is not necessary for the entire municipality. And then it would be the credibility of that data and signature, no one would have the right to doubt it. As to why the situation is as you said at the beginning there is no money, so I think that in this House we have spoken very much in the past year especially me from the position why the situation is so, why the Croatian budget is in such a situation, why the economy is bad for us on this topic I would not want to open another debate, and you also know that the Croatian budget, or the Croatian state, is not in the most envious situation. Who's to blame? The citizens said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29842	Thank you very much. And since the minister has after duty we'll hear more of him and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29843	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to briefly explain why the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion on this bill. We therefore believe that all the conditions are met that the settlement Poljanec from the Municipality of Martianec was transferred to the city of Ludbreg because they gave a positive opinion to both councils, so the City Council of Ludbrega and the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Martianec, and that this was positively demonstrated by the County Assembly and that the will of the citizens was established by the basis of the signatures that were presented. I agree that it would be good, but then without exception, to prescribe that, in similar cases, a referendum of citizens is requested, however, even under the applicable law, to obtain opinions. Perhaps the basis of this debate could also suggest an amendment to Article 31 where, in this case, it would be clearer to write that the referendum is and in this case it would probably be called by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, by virtue of the Law on a referendum on the change of territorial structure, only needs to be seen more specifically whether it relates to parts of the unit of local self-government or must be a whole municipality. But that's a technical question now. Secondly, before Commissioner Glavak asked that question, I wanted to explain it, and I explained it at the government's session, so we hold that we must first respect the will of the citizens. Secondly, it is important to respect the will of those with whom the settlement is coming, because if someone does not want to receive them, I am not sure it is good to put them there. It is necessary to promote even though it may not respect the will of those from whom they leave because, of course, the will of the county congregation, which generally does not want to interfere if the two councils have a different view. As for other initiatives, we will stick to the same criteria. So determined citizens' will in one clear way. The clearest is the referendum I agree with. If there is another way, it is either the decision or the position of the local committee that the Constitutional Court has also recognised, so if it is a unanimous decision, then there is no reasonable reason to doubt that citizens would decide otherwise even though they never know. And, of course, the statement of both councils and the County Assembly in that case will give a positive opinion on the other drafts of the law, which, given that the representative mentioned an amendment as much as I remember the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I think in that part... the first reading does not go to the amendment, so a conclusion can be proposed, possibly on behalf of the club, that other initiatives be respected. However, our position at this time is to make such changes to be initiated by representatives, so representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And we believe that this would be the right way to solve this kind of thing through a proposal from the MPs, not that the government, as an executive authority, is arbitration in this part of it. And that's my answer to all the MPs asking how something can be done. And then when laws are passed, given the dates, all you need to see is technically when the law comes into force. Unless it is necessary to discuss extraordinary elections, it can be said that it has come into force since the next local elections or some other part, but the desire is and the will is political for these things to go to the proposal of the MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia will have clear criteria and will not look at which party the proposal came from, so this is something about citizens and the will of citizens should be respected. Here's hoping I could explain it in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29844	Thank you very much. And now we're going to listen to the replica of my colleague Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29845	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If I understand correctly, the minister will leave us and even when he's here, I'd like him to answer a few questions. First of all, ministers, wishes are one thing, laws are the other, so we follow the procedure that is. What I said was whether it would be a conclusion or an amendment, of course, that we would act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I am asking you now and specifically what is the area of the municipality of Klis, or the city of Solin. According to our findings, 95% of the citizens there have declared that they want to belong to the City of Solin. So the Committee for the Borders of the Units of Local Self-Government has carried out a statement by citizens, so the procedure has been implemented and why it is waiting with this, why the ministers can't and can't do that now that we're already doing the amendments and additions to the law, why can't we also vote that way. The second question, I hope that the other initiatives that are in the Ministry of Administration will come this quickly and that you will also respect their wishes, i.e. citizens' wishes, or locals who have already shown such initiatives. And something else about going out to the upcoming local elections, so all the locals who won't change their ID cards, so up to 10 days before the election, they have to do it and they won't actually be able to vote anywhere. I think people need to know that. So the law says that 10 days before the election you can change your ID card because you have to have a very personal ID or you're going to say that's not the case. Besides, let's just say that the locals who are going to belong to the city of Ludbreg are entering a city that has a 3% higher cut, so there's 8%, so that's some more details we have to warn about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29846	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29847	Thank you. So let's go to the last question. As far as I.D. is concerned, it will still be valid because no data is changed. The identity card contains the village and address, the village remains the same, the address remains the same, and the identity card is valid. So it doesn't say the local self-government unit on the identity card, writes only the settlement, the settlement stays the same, just moves to another city and municipality. As for other initiatives, so I said, we expect the proposal from parliamentary representatives, any parliamentary representative, I guess there is one of 151 MPs who can therefore propose the law and any such legislative proposal will be treated equally, regardless of which party the MP comes from, and the most beautiful would be if two MPs from different parties were proposed, that would be the easiest thing for the government. If conditions are met, the wishes of local other self-governments to accept them, if they are still in agreement with those who leave the team better. But it doesn't have to be necessary, then it will be decided by the Parliament, that's his mandate to do. I don't think the government should be arbitration here. And third, with regard to the borders of Solin and Klis, there is one dispute that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has resolved in the last term, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia has re-determined in the previous session. Perhaps I should explain, so this is not about classical bordering because they are defined as the borders of the Catastrian municipalities and part of Klis village which is de facto in the center of Solin, but it is still part of the settlement Klis wants to become part of the City of Solin. Now, by demanding to get into this law, we are de facto saying that it is still an undisputed part of the Kliss Community and that it should be settled by law, and if it were a border dispute then it would be settled by the government. So it's more legally complicated because the law says that the borders of the local self-government are the borders of the Catastrian municipalities, and the State Geodetic Administration has made it clear that it is a cadastrian Klis municipality and that it is therefore a settlement of Klis and part of the Klis Municipality and of course the Croatian Assembly can separate part of Klis village from the Klis municipality and put it in the City of Solin. So it can theoretically happen by the same criteria as we do this. So the will of the council of municipalities...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29848	Thank you very much. ... Thank you, but the proposings, in the future, let them discuss this in the Ministry. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29849	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29850	I'm setting a break until 3:00. The first in line for the debate is the HDZ club and co-worker Suncana Glavak. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29852	The minister left us, and then we'll tell him what I was talking about in the replica, so the request as we approach the amendment and the addition of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities to be equally included in this initiative and the case of the city of Solin. And as for the proposal tabled by my colleague Habek, I must say that we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club will, of course, respect the will of the locals who expressed their desire to join the city of Ludbreg. 65% of the locals made such a statement, all the procedures they needed were reportedly carried out. We wouldn't be questioning the way now, and their reasons are as we already are here and we've heard that this is one settlement in a ring that Ludbreg borders without being part of the city. Most of their needs are being met in the city of Ludbreg. So kindergarten, school, health care, post office, sports and no less important culture. However, what I would especially like to stress is the surprise that the law changes only because of one settlement and what the law changes right in the election year. Of course, I refer to it as a problem, and I think that in the election year, the original balance is also disrupted. As for rights and obligations, therefore the locals of Poljanca would have to change the city and the municipalities, i.e. they would have to change their spatial plans. The locals will have to change the documents. Of course it won't cost the state anything, but the locals will cost something, and so do they. The same way they agreed to an 8% cut in the city of Ludbreg. So far, they've had 5% in Martynz. Something also said about it was Vice President Batinic. So, I hope that the locals have been recommunicated with everything that brings them the advantage of joining the city of Ludbreg, that is, the lack of separation from the so far municipality. We'll make the final decision. I believe we will respect their will. However, I will return to what I consider to be a problem. So, when the government has already adopted this initiative according to our knowledge at the Ministry of Administration, there is a series of initiatives in some other cities, or places. And our question is why we don't change everything right now and why we only got this proposal on the bench. We could've done it all with one move, so I doubt there were any other intentions. When I mention the town of Solin, I just want to bring their problem closer to you. So, part of Klis and the streets that are located in the so-called "Clais" municipality. The disputed part of Solina’s territory is the whole city of Solina. As the most banal example, I will suggest that, for example, the football club plays constantly in guests because they bear one name and are located in the area of another municipality. So, people are always on the guests. Maybe it's banal, maybe it's funny to someone, but that's the way it is. It is like in Varazdin County, for example, half a street in Slovenia and half in Croatia. We have a case like that. Right? We all know exactly what I'm talking about. Therefore, residents in the area are life-related and lean on the institutions and institutions operating in the area of the town of Solin, and they have, of course, brought us a proposal in which it would be resolved. And according to our knowledge, the Committee for the Borders of the Local Self-Government Unit of the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out a statement of citizens, so everything should be done from this area through the Office of State Administration in the Split-Dalmatia County of Solin Station. And according to information that we have, of course, unofficially over 95% of the citizens who have come to the plea have declared that they want to belong to the town of Solin, and therefore they are also citizens of the city of Solin. So I'm asking why we didn't discuss them today? So, the Croatian Democratic Community club will propose...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29853	My colleague Glavak, this is a proposal from my colleague Habek and you can't ask the Ministry why he didn't propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29854	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry we can't ask the Ministry. They'd ask the minister, but he's gone, so we asked him informally when he was here when we took a break. So, of course, we will ask that question in terms of conclusions or amendments from the Croatian Democratic Community club. We will see, of course, in accordance with the procedure, so we would like not to have such initiatives one by one in the Croatian Parliament. As for the will of the citizens, we will support her. The Croatian Democratic Community Club of course wants citizens to do their will, to join the city of Ludbreg. And as for the other obstacles or advantages that this will bring to them, of course, they will decide for themselves. What we have seen as a problem is therefore a question of one another, and it refers to that community from which we have isolated, so the settlement Poljanec that happens to them and of course what it will mean for the municipality from which they stand out. 65% of the locals, so it's decided and we will support their will. However, once again, we have a problem with how this happens in the election year and why we only change the law because of one settlement when we know that there are more such initiatives. And I think we could have done it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29855	Thank you, dear colleague Glavak. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29856	Here's the Honorable Madam Vice President. The HDSB club will support this proposal in mind and in hopes that everything is really done in accordance with the law and that, above all, these signatures of citizens are indeed showing the will of the citizens themselves. Since I'm not in Ludbreg every day, I can't even know what the real background is, but I can believe that this is a better solution for the Polish people. However, I would also like to point out here perhaps one of the illogicalities of the existing law that through this procedure in any case I feel that, I am also sorry that there is no minister but probably someone will pass it on to him or read this record from these discussions, that I believe that a referendum system should be introduced, i.e. that citizens should be introduced through referenda, if they change and can change the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, so directly elected, and not as in this law, that they can change it by the competent council and the assembly so that they can decide through a referendum on their own separation from certain local self-government and inclusion in certain local self-government. That way we'd avoid any possible doubt, so I'd say even certain occipital games in making these decisions. And maybe this is the time so here I will continue perhaps the debate launched by the Vice-President of the Assembly on behalf of the HNS Club and indeed open a question of the number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and the number of cities in the Republic of Croatia and their possibility through this highly centralised system or system that is more expensive to someone and closer to where many municipalities from the day of their draft can't fulfil the basic tasks of local self-government because they simply don't have the possibility of financing the basic needs of the population. Certainly one, I would say the most important, pre-election promises but also the obligations of the Republic of Croatia on the road to the EU and on the day of entry into the EU will certainly be decentralisation. And it's real decentralisation. Not decentralisation on paper through giving certain powers to these municipalities and cities. Because you can be sure that in these years, and starting there somewhere since 2010, 2011 that the budgets of local self-government units are rapidly reduced, not because unemployment is growing in the Republic of Croatia but because the basic source of funding of local self-government units has become less and less income tax, less and less communal compensation, less and less municipal contributions because there are no major investments in local self-government, because many local self-government units do not have the necessary means to start these investments, but are therefore doomed to survival, and the biggest cause is precisely in the distribution of these financial resources, in the distribution of that financial cake. Where at this point, and what we have had in the last few years or the last 20 years in the Republic of Croatia, which has also been an unfair system towards local and regional self-government, where 92%, therefore, in that former funding model, 92% ended in the state budget, only 8% in local self-government and regional self-government units. Now this ratio is much weaker towards local self-government and around 4 or 3% of total tax revenues are heading towards local and regional self-government including the City of Zagreb. And there's a basic problem. The basic problem the Croatian government must understand. Not only here in the speech of MPs in favour of decentralisation, but when a proposal comes regarding fiscal decentralisation then many mayors, mayors, or parliamentary representatives who are on the side of positions must respect the party's discipline and simply cannot raise their hand for the part that is necessary for Croatia. I will not talk about income tax that remains 100% in local self-government and through decentralised functions, but a great possibility of decentralisation in income from profit tax where we can all agree that it cannot be 100% in the state budget. Well, that's a value added tax. At this point he is 25% can you imagine what a total amount of value added tax or VAT would mean if only 4% went to local self-government units. 4% of regional self-government, and 92% remain state. That's the ratio we had a few years ago, 92%-8%. Many budgets and municipalities, both cities and counties would grow several times. And then the mayors, the mayors, the mayors wouldn't really have to break the thresholds of the ministries, an agency that doesn't even know the number, in which individuals have far more salaries than the parliamentary deputies who are obviously in Croatia for all of them, then it might be possible to build not one kindergarten in Poljanac or Martianac, but also in Ludbrega, but also the mayor would have far more resources, including Ivanac, and also in my Djakov, as well as in Osijek, both in Zagreb and Split, and in Rijeka. Not to list the entire local self-government. There is a solution to all problems, and in Lepoglav, there is a solution to all problems, not in raising hands but in a real fight for decentralisation, even through that agricultural land. Finally, the HDSSB club will support this and I agree that there are still a number of initiatives that are probably in drawers and would agree with the minister that the will of citizens should be respected. And I hope that the government will withdraw the opinion it has given for the city of Novi Vindolski jell and the government must respect the law on mountainous mountainous areas and those criteria that have been written down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29857	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29858	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Vinkovic about the financial difficulties they face, in a way meeting local self-government units. Out of need, therefore, all of the preschool institutions, assistance to education and also in these units of local self-government and needs in sports are great because children, of course, need to deal with sports and it is their right to do so. But they don't. Of course, this problem of preschool education and kindergarten is certainly one of the most demanding. We want everyone, that in every municipality children have that possibility of accommodation in kindergarten, including in Poljanac and Martianca, and anywhere else. And in this part, we are then touching that fundamental issue which these two days, during the debate on agricultural land, has been retreating all the time, which is decentralisation. I remember well in the last session how much it was about decentralisation, how many speeches on the left hand side, they gave almost the vocal cords of that decentralisation. However, here is the law before which we have finished the debate today, which again speaks in that sense that there is no d of that decentralisation. That agency's gonna do it again and again. Well, in that sense, I mean, it's not enough just to be on the basis of an appeal, so let's go, we appeal to do it like this. When the law comes right, you said raise your hand for it to go in favor of the local self-government that we all swear to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29859	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29860	Good thing I have a good memory. One of the loudest and that's when I was just me. And nothing, this one hasn't changed much for me. I remember me and that government and the decisions... So let it go, and those decisions when it came to profit tax, when, and it wasn't a good decision that the profit tax went to the company headquarters. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We also have an amendment, so on the distribution of that income tax, that's when you refused the amendment, but you put it directly into the function of the state budget. And I'm aware of all the needs of local self-government units and I know what the problems are, and on the other hand, at this point nothing important changes, so then it was 92.8%, now it's 96.4%. So, less and less money is for local self-government. And for those of us who work in the local self-government, who we've chosen, was either HDZ or SDP, and there's less and less money, and more and more, I wouldn't say power, but there are more and more tasks that local self-government must fulfill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29861	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Marijan Škurić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29862	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So Malta does not in this part of the debate on this proposal of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has words that appear, above all, are doubts, games, malts are not perceived as opening up a new Pandora's box. In these matters, I absolutely agree that first of all legal regulations must be respected in that part, especially that the will of citizens, people, must be respected. And in general, what is presented here and is, 65% of citizens have expressed their desire to separate themselves from the Matian municipality and join the city of Ludbreg. At the same time, when we ask which way it is, if the 35% left, if they were wondering about it, I believe they didn't. We say that in a way that and we need to run that amendment of the law, to first of all define how people will legally be able to say that this decision is right. First of all, we agree to be signatures, but let these lists be an initiative to carry out the referendum in a way that all people through the referendum can express their wish. And the advantage is that, when conducting the referendum, there must be the truths which it implements in a way that is a referendum at local level, then it must certainly be carried out by the truth of the regional level. We have cases that someone wants to separate from one county to another. So in that part, that part of the truth, implementation and control must be carried out by a certain body of state administration. So we always have one body that legally conducts that part of the procedure so that there really shouldn't be any idea that there's some kind of game or some kind of misunderstanding. On the other hand, we should define if that desire is already present, what people will first express their desire, of course the city or municipal council of the local community, of course, will say if they no longer mourn with us why we should have them. The other neighbor who wants to join is always trying to say, of course, we won't mind them, so just let them come to us. The county says if you've made a deal so that I'll interfere with you in that part and, of course, the state administration says if you've agreed I don't want to participate anymore. It looks very good and beautiful again, but there's always that part of what we've said to a little doubt. Do these citizens in that area know what they've done? Do they know that they're really joining a bigger city, a much bigger city, and I hope they know that at that point they're going to pay a much bigger cut, a communal contribution, communal fees and severances. I hope that this city that they have joined in this year, too, may next year be putting on its investment championship and the municipal arrangement of this village, which it has bowed down to, of course, all those settlements that it already has in its composition. We hope that's the way it's gonna be. And what about when it won't be? Is that the legal regulation that's in that part of it, if these people haven't known for 16 years that they're not well, or after 20 years, they just realized they wanted something. Maybe in a year, they'll realize they might want to come back. Is there a possibility or is there no possibility for that or under what conditions? Whether he might realize he wants to be on his own. Now is that also prescribed from those 727 Polish settlements, can they be an independent municipality? So that's what we really need from us as parliamentarians to initiate one procedure of amending the law that such things can really be excluded from one policy from one game and the misunderstandings in one legal framework. That's exactly what we need to know. On the other hand, if we are dealing with those who have left, we need to deal with those who have stayed. The municipality of Martianec, which had about 3 million budgets of 4300 people, has thus lost 17% of the population. How much fiscally she's lost, unfortunately, no one can say that yet, because no one's accounted for it yet, and unfortunately, when it's known, it'll probably be too late. You're planning a budget, you're planning certain things that you need to change your spatial plan now, so your extra costs are how to plan certain investment procedures in quality. As far as the Martianec municipality itself is concerned in that part, they are indeed back a few years, two years ago as the new chief has now launched, they have a program and projects for the construction of sewers, kindergartens, schools, social homes and in that part of what I really want to stress that we must really make it possible for this municipality to realise these projects. Why? Because she really needs the standard that others have and others can have. On the other hand, I am also calling for both the Resorving Ministry and the Government to make it possible for the municipality to do so for these projects. Unfortunately, what was said, the municipality did not need a kindergarten yesterday, neither today nor tomorrow, was needed 15 or 20 years ago. Only they were not such criteria that such municipalities as have been said here 700 kuna per capita of income or perhaps unfortunately in northern Croatia were about 1000 to 1500 kuna income per capita who did not and did not have current capital transfers from the state level, regardless of whether they were in border areas whether they had mountain-mounted status did not have that status that they could make that standard and social and communal, economic rise at the level that such settlements so requested. So we really recapitulate the need to change legislation to see how separation, isolation, or return of certain settlements to cities, municipalities, even in the county can occur. And secondly, to really define what are the criteria under which the indescribing lists really need to help such municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29863	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by Stjepan Milinkovic but is missing. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. And on behalf of my colleague Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29864	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate, who contributed to the amendments and amendments of this law. I can say that today we were discussing a very important one, and I would say essentially a democratic topic where citizens decide where they will live, where their children will go to school, go to kindergarten, where they will meet their health and cultural needs, and ultimately where they will pay taxes and taxes on which they were here today. I also remind you that citizens with a large majority of votes, and not only with three votes, have made the figures clearly and aloud clear where they want to live for historical and modern reasons. As their representative, I can only support their legitimate desire. Their wish was also supported by democratic institutions, the Martian municipal council chaired by a HDZ representative and headed by the HNS chief. The democratic will of the people of Poljanc was respected by the City Council of Ludbreg, which was also headed by representatives of the City Council of HDZ and supported by council members of all sides, including HNS, HSLS, HSS and SDP. and finally, the county of Varazdinska, or the assembly of the Varazdin County, gave its consent. So we cannot talk about politics or electoral engineering, but about respected democratic principles that apply to all citizens equally. Of course, the people of Poljanca are aware of what they are getting by entering the city of Ludbreg as a cultural, political and economic centre of Northern Podravina and leaving a smaller municipality burdened with developmental problems and have shown it by their signatures and I do not think that we as representatives of the Croatian Parliament should underestimate them and insult them that they do not know what they are doing. It is their choice, and we all need to respect it together, and we don't have to politicize on honorary citizens and Polish citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29865	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29866	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 242. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, proposed by MP Mario Habek, is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of the 111 votes in favour and 7 abstentions have been reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29867	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, second reading, PZ No. 183 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Science and Education and Sports Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29868	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. It is my great pleasure today to be here in the assembly and present the final text of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which is the job we have been doing since the first day we came to the ministry. I think we did a big job. I must thank all those who participated in both the preparation of the draft and the preparation of the final text. It seems to me that the work we've done is extremely good and we'll see the results very soon. The Croatian Qualifications Framework is a key reform instrument in the education policy run by the Croatian Government for the first time and for the development and reform of the education system, and we approach all educational levels as a whole, relying on strategic priorities both for Croatia and the EU and in partnership between different ministries. If we want to know what kind of Croatia we want, then we must actually predict today what profiles in education are needed, what kind of labour market is needed. This is exactly the instrument we get with the Croatian qualification framework. Sometimes it is difficult to explain to the citizens what it is to the Croatian qualification framework in general, so I will quote a parliamentary debate from the first meeting about this law here in the assembly. "In fact, the establishment of a qualification framework wants to link the previous current and future results of learning and qualifications and to put them in international relations within the Republic of Croatia as well as in the European educational space. It is a new system that may be difficult to understand, but it is the simplest way to explain it as a 8-year-old closet. 10 drawers and each qualification and each learning outcome shall be placed in one of those 8 weeks. 10 drawers." I would like to thank counsel Lugaric, the one I quoted. By accessing the reform of the educational system as a whole through the Croatian qualification framework, we will arrange qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia in a way that enables them to pass both vertically and horizontally, with the possibility of moving from one educational path to another and in a way that meets the necessary competences on the labour market and is understandable to employers in Croatia and Europe. In this way we create assumptions that clearly determine which interests, which skills are needed by the Croatian society for faster development. We want to build a knowledge-based society so education must be built on the adoption of knowledge and understanding from which skills and abilities and values and attitudes follow. What is very important is that we have integrated policies, especially education policy, employment policy, regional development policy, because in this way we will develop a Croatian economy that will be competitive with EU members and the Croatian qualification framework is exactly an example of these integrated policies because it has been closely co-operated by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship. Therefore, at all levels of education, educational programmes should be based on clear learning outcomes, which implies the transition of the concept of what the teacher should transfer to what the student needs to know. This approach leaves certain freedom and creativity to educational institutions and teaching staff in the implementation of educational programmes, which acquire clearly prescribed standardized learning outcomes. Once again, I point out today that the key concept is to learn how to learn and do it for the rest of my life. Therefore, the Croatian qualification framework is a framework governing the qualification system in the Republic of Croatia. The aim is to clarify the content of qualifications and to ensure the quality of the education system, which is why the HKO sign will also be a recognizable quality label in the future. I stress the Croatian qualification framework connects with the European Qualifications Framework and the European Higher Education Area. This facilitates the mobility of citizens in terms of learning in the European educational area, mobility and competitiveness of Croatian workers on the European labour market. Connecting and comparing with other education systems in Europe will also contribute to a significant quality assurance of the Croatian education system. Each qualification in Croatia in HKO is determined according to the level of learning outcomes that belong to that qualification. As learning outcomes are at the centre of HKO and not the process that has occurred, it recognises the outcomes of formal learning as well as informal and informative as long as they comply with the approved evaluation programme. In particular, it is important to coordinate education with labour market needs as reflected in the structure of the application of HKO involving several bodies and dynamics. For this reason, to ensure quality and transparent application, the HKO registry will also be established, the way registers are established also allows for the integration of education with the labour market. For each profession in the register, relevant competences will be indicated, and competences or learning outcomes associated with a specific qualification. The funds for the implementation of this law are secured in the state budget. The draft final draft law will not enter into details but Chapter 5 and Chapter 6 mentions everything that has been changed and what has been accepted between the two readings or what has not been adopted, but the shortest said debate at the last plenary session and between these two readings was mainly aimed at provisions relating to the national council for the development of human potentials, the possibility of operationality with regard to the size of the council, the possibility of extending the composition, the selection of members of individual institutions, the issue of authority in relation to the autonomy of higher schools, the financing of councils and the smaller part of the register of the Croatian qualification framework, the means for making registration procedures. In addition, I can be pleased to say that, on the basis of all the discussions as well as the first reading and cooperation with all the ministries involved in the preparation, we received the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a reform instrument that regulates the entire qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic of Croatia through qualifications standards based on learning outcomes and in line with the needs of the labour market, individual and society as a whole. In addition, the Croatian Qualifications Framework develops and improves the quality assurance system at all levels, establishes the basics for the recognition and evaluation of informal and informational learning and enables the recognition of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia on the Croatian and European labour market. Therefore, the adoption of this law will certainly affect existing laws and regulations in the field of education and training and in other areas which regulate both the issue of education and training in a way that ensures better coordination between them. Therefore, this law benefits all Croatian citizens with qualifications, for all employers, for all educational institutions and of course for the Ministry who can finally plan educational needs with the real needs of Croatian society. Once again, I thank all those who participated in the debate on this law and contributed to its quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29869	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. Clubs are coming up, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Jns's colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29870	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers and assistant ministers. It has been shown in the past year that one of the key, if not the key job of the parties, is to introduce order to the Croatian state institutions. We took responsibility for a state whose state administration, public administration, public enterprises, everything the state has more or less influence on, along with local administration and self-government, reminds me occasionally of what you have in the paper about a tenant in a building that's been harvesting garbage, waste, feces, dog shit, and it all stinks, it's dysfunctional, it doesn't make any sense and order. Unfortunately, in one large part we have taken over the state in such a state, it is not the result of the last 5 years, it is not the result of only the last 10, the last 20 years, although the good part of us has been piled up for 40, 50, 100 years with these various changes in systems, policies, wars, conflicts, states and non-states and such disorder unfortunately the Government and in the system of qualifications, their analysis, monitoring, acquisition and evaluation. It is an unsightly, hard-to-use system in which often when we are talking about combining labour and education markets on one hand employers often have problems actually in these qualifications to decrypt what they need. It often happens that people who have completed certain educational programs themselves do not really know where their qualifications fall, what they actually have, what it is comparable to and how they can function in life. In that sense, we absolutely in HNS support this law, support both its intention and the way it is intended to be implemented. However, at this stage in the second reading, I would only allow myself to warn myself of several elements that seem to us to be a possible source of danger in the application of this law, not to object and criticise but only to make us all aware of what some of the key problems can be in implementation. So an extremely complex system with a large number of participants is imagined. I have already said several times in discussions about some other laws that this is always a situation that scares me a little bit in Croatia, so this is one situation that requires exceptional coordination among various actors of the system. It is something that we are not used to and that our institutions are often not prepared for. One of the elements of the implementation of this law is the National Council which has on one side a very extensive task and is really expected to determine a huge job, on the other hand there are a lot of members, there are too many members in some way to be one operational functional body. So there is also one danger of not doing the job well, and it should certainly be kept in mind when the members of that council are appointed and when the regulation is done and everything that follows us after this law. In Chapter 3. The law of coordination of implementation and development we have three ministries that are responsible for the implementation of this law: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Regional Development. I just counted it this way, so the Ministry of Education has 14 different tasks, the Ministry of Labour has six different tasks, the Ministry of Regional Development has 3 different tasks. I'm coming back, again I'm warning the problem of coordination of such large systems in such a major procedure is something that Croatia is not used to. Unfortunately, ministers and your associates will certainly be one of the biggest challenges in implementing this important and serious law. Then there are sectoral councils who again have some tasks, on the other hand they must also be coordinated with both the National Council and the ministries, so all of this leaves us with the possibility of getting somewhere. And finally a register that is huge for itself one job, a huge job and technical and humane and in all other ways possible one huge project. There are three subregistries, run by various institutions. What needs to be kept in mind and what needs to be kept in mind is that all of these elements of the system that I have listed, and I didn't even list them all, of course, if only one of them is seriously scheduled then the whole system will in some way not be able to implement and bring to that level that we would all want, to that level that we expect and we believe that we are able to make and people who work in all these ministries and ultimately, based on this bill. The law also prescribes time limits for the adoption of regulations, designation and production of registers. The deadlines are 6, 12 and 24 months, respectively. This may seem like long deadlines and they are on one side quite long. But given the huge work ahead of you, given the fact that you're sure to have problems with that coordination because it's simply something that's embedded in our system. If you haven't already started working seriously, we're actually kind of late. In any case, the HNS supports absolutely this bill. We support the Croatian classification framework and as an idea. We hope that the sooner he will really come to life, and we trust deeply with the attention we have given to these elements, so actually, these possible obstacles to implementation. We deeply believe that this will really be one of those reform procedures that the parties to the Kukuriku coalition and our government must do, have an obligation in this country to make sure that we keep our promises to the citizens and citizens, which is that we will live in a country that is finally arranged and worthy of the citizens who live in it. Thank you, and good luck to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29871	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29872	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colman's here and he's done with finally living in a country that's finally arranged. However, here we should warn of something called, which may be a negative consequence of such an approach. To be clear, I am for an instrument like this, but I need to be aware of what he means. It also leads to red tape and insanity. If we call for Europe already, if you want to open a restaurant in Germany or anywhere else you need no qualification, you just have to submit to a sanitary inspection, and the market will decide whether you have good or bad chefs, waiters, etc. Therefore, this enthusiasm with this one approach if there is no development strategy, if there are no goals we want to achieve simply will have one negative effect that we will be selecting everyone and everyone and if we do not have these drawers and boxes or this will simply be the key to getting those most creative people out of the game. And in that sense, we need to be far more sober and more serious about this, and these are the ones that we're unedited, etc. They are simply in conflict with that message and with the conditions that Croatia has met when Europe said that we meet all the conditions for EU entry, so it is necessary to imagine a little over the thesis that is repeated at any moment, that we have no conditions or that we are unsettled. Does this mean that we do not want to join the EU or that we have given up on this concept?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29873	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29874	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And I agree with you for one good part of my colleague Tudjman. It's absolutely me if you want me to be thrilled with the fact that we're moving into a project like this, and I hope we're really going to establish some excess and usable classification of qualifications. Also, I fully agree that excessive red tape and administration is something that we must avoid on the one hand, and on the other hand is also another of the reform processes that follows us in Croatia because we really did say it well, we are really looking at many segments of too much red tape, administration from people. Here we were just talking today, today I was talking to a colleague about a requalification course for a pizza master, I think you mentioned something like that, and then that course includes 20 different laws, regulations, learning about things that look like two semesters of college studies and the least you can do is get in, of course, how to make pizza. And you're right about that. So we tend to administer too much and it is also one of the sources of riots that somehow in Croatia government, because then people try to avoid things by nature. It's not an excuse, of course, but it's something we need to be aware of, trying to avoid anything that's put before them as a request. What I disagree with is that we are all calling in some way on our unpreparedness for the EU. Just because we've met the criteria to get in doesn't mean they have to fit on them. Our work is just getting started. The Union itself has problems with both its administration and its bureaucracy. And it's actually a process that keeps going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. So no. I would not agree if we were to say that we are not ready, but what we must be aware of, and that we have a terrible lot of work all together before us so that Croatia really would be one functioning country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29875	The Republic has Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29876	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Coleman told us with a beautiful one of his illustrations, so now the coalition has come and cleared things up that have been piling up for years, decades, etc. And it was actually something similar at the beginning with a less pictoresque saying and a minister who said when he arrived he started working on it. Well, here's the thing. I just have to fix each other. It started in 2005. It intensified in 2007 and is now the result of a whole series of versions, probably a better, purified result. But not far from doing it a year ago, let alone now that it's something that's suddenly gone missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29877	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29878	Thank you, Madam Vice President. No, absolutely not even my intention was to say that everything from us began, nor did I actually say that we came and cleaned everything up. I just said that it has proved now in these years of our experience since we took responsibility for the Republic of Croatia that it is actually a fundamental part of our business to introduce order in various resolutions, in various institutions, in various parts of the operation of the Republic of Croatia and so on. In order not to think that I am completely unrealistic in my assessment of the situation I don't think even closely that we've cleaned everything up, it's a job that's just ahead of us and this qualification framework will in one small part of it hopefully help and make certain shifts with absolute respect that the world didn't start with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29879	On behalf of the HDZ Club Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29880	Dear Madam Vice-President, honourable ministers, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I want to say right away that actually when I look at this law, there's no question about the measure of the law itself, and it's actually contained in those supplements and those tables and graphs, and of course it's nothing controversial. What I have to admit, however, is grief on the one hand, and on the other hand it upsets me, and I think it should upset everyone, and it's saddening that there is now a law in the second reading that is practically identical to that in the first reading. So other than a few minimum corrections of the ephemeral nature, everything else is exactly the same as if the debate in the first reading had not been held at all, as if no one had any objections to the whole thing. Of course, the remarks don't have to be taken into account, of course they may not always fit the concept, but I don't think that's a good thing, because that's not a question at all, and neither is this law, not at all a question of one or another political option. I personally always think that some of the issues in this country, and education, science, health care are quite certainly a couple of excellent issues that shouldn't be, I'm a conscious and realistic man and I know that this is, unfortunately, so but it shouldn't be the subject of a dispute between political options and that at least there should be a consensus. However, we are now witnessing the fact that the debate was held and that it is absolutely irrelevant what was said in this debate because everything that was said in that debate was and the Priory was rejected and did not find any reflection in this called second version of the law. It's actually disturbing to me, and I say and saddens me, because it reflects one relationship not to the opposition, I especially wish you colleagues to say it's not about the relationship to the opposition, it's about the relationship to the Parliament. And everyone, you should be concerned about that too because it is a reflection and the fact that in the last year this House discussed 190 laws, of which 154 by emergency procedure. I would not only be on the side of the opposition but also on the side of the ruling I would be deeply concerned about it, aware of that fact. But when I look at this law that hasn't virtually changed anything compared to the first version, so I wonder why we're even bothered with two law readings if it's the position of the promoter that whatever this story is that doesn't matter and that it's going to be done anyway, and you're going to get your hands up neatly tied to anything that's proposed. Well, then we really shouldn't have two readings. So let's do everything in an emergency procedure, sort it out, and what are we wasting all that time together? I don't know, I think we should all, I stress everyone, and not just an opposition to that, because what I'm saying is actually the story of the role of this Parliament in Croatian society, the dignity of this Parliament, is not about power and opposition, but about the role of parliamentary democracy. Since literally no single remark has been made completely unrelated to any political position regarding the first reading of this law only remains for the purpose of recording it, for any other reason. I know you're going to vote all of this, but just to repeat that certain remarks have been made that I think some have been given by some of the ruling some of the opposition, that they could actually have been accepted to improve this law, and it didn't take much. Let's remind ourselves there were objections, some of them also respected MP Coleman said, about the operationality of the National Council, which is now composed of 25 members. So the logic here is perfectly clear they actually wanted to unite the representatives of both sides to say, those who use something and those who give something. It's an old model... The older one will remember many years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wasn't by himself bad, she was as bad as many other things. However, it is certain that a body with 25 members cannot be operational and will have huge problems with its functioning. Of course it wasn't the same thing that was accepted. There were comments concerning the inclusion of representatives of primary, secondary and vocational education. Because when all possible representatives of everything and everything inside is weird that there are no representatives in there representing primary and secondary education. Well, it seems to me that it's quite a huge and important segment in the education system, they're not here. In this end, you could read why this, that remark was not accepted because it was actually represented through the participation of the representatives of the agency responsible for education and education, etc. Well, it's clear to all of us, so what the agency is, the agency is the authority of the government, so it's not some independent body that's going to represent the interests of the sector now. So let's not kid ourselves, we all know that. Therefore, I simply do not understand why it was not intended to include representatives of primary and secondary education in the system of the National Council. Then, it was not accepted that in some way, at least not to be elaborated, but at least to indicate the criteria of selecting 3 representatives of representative associations, multi-level unions and 3 representatives of multi-level employers' representative associations. How are they going to choose? By law, there'll be five of them, how are you going to choose 3 from 5? Who's gonna pick that? It's not settled here. What was also not accepted, of course, was the debate that did not enter into some specific detail, perhaps details, and perhaps it should not have been, and these are issues of the powers of the National Council which are terribly wide and terribly large. Okay, that concept can stay that way and it may be accepted, but it's one big challenge, and it's also mentioned by the esteemed MP Coleman. He is one big challenge in spending, and there will certainly be problems. Just as surely as it will be a great challenge, creating a single register, a huge one job, a very demanding job with three registers run by different ministries. We know how good we are at coordinating different bodies in this country and how it works. No comments regarding the compatibility of the information system introduced here with regard to existing IT systems have been accepted. It is not accepted that the entry in the register is very complicated and that when you have one complicated system then you need to elaborate the procedures, mode of operation etc. In response, it will be dealt with by the Regulation. So we know again how things are dealt with by the rules. As a rule, it's been waiting a long time on those rules because they don't get to be made. Then they are not under the supervision of either Parliament, nor anyone, made better or worse, then they correct each as much as we like to say in walking and then it all ends up in a mess again. One of the things that has also not been accepted at all is the reserves that have been presented in connection with the possibility of effective law enforcement related to the division of powers and responsibilities between the ministries involved in this, in this law. It is not accepted at all, nor is it related to the integration of HKO with the European qualification framework where certain mechanisms should be provided, and I think it is very important that there is no departure of educated young people from Croatia. Therefore, these mechanisms should in some ways be indicated at least here because otherwise, of course, we will have problems. It was also said in the debate that level 7 should be divided into 2 levels in order to make a clear distinction between university graduate studies and specialist graduate studies on the one hand and graduate specialists on the other. It's not even accepted. So I've just listed a whole series of arguments that have been discussed, and none of these have been accepted. And I believe that they were all said in good faith, in a desire to improve that system, a system that is very complicated, a system that we all expect very much from, and a system that would be of little goodwill to be shown, I believe could make it even better, but this is how only one demonstration of ignoring any objections is left because, of course, you can vote here most of the time. So that's how this law is going to be passed. I repeat, that's no problem, I assure you, only opposition is the problem of everyone who sits here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29881	Thank you very much. The Republic is owned by Marija Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29882	In the second reading, the law has seen 10 changes in a total of 7 articles, of a total of 23 articles of the law, including the introductory and transitional and final provisions, it is a small law. 7 articles have been changed from the first text of reading. Secondly, here you mentioned some things that should have been changed and not. I am sure that they were coherently argued that they would be changed, and I hope that you will find an amendment that would satisfy your demand that, for example, the National Council for Human Resources Development decreases the number of members, while adding two new ones at the same time, and if you find that mathematics plus 2, and in addition less than what is proposed, that such an amendment will be accepted. Also, the truths to separate level 7 into two below levels were not stated in the first reading of the law, nor at the session of the parent board, nor at any other committee, nor at the plenary session. It was mentioned by 2 people only during the discussion in 2 readings at a session of the parent board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29883	The reply to the replica of Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29884	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Lugaric has more objections. I will read to you their character, so in Article 12(2), subparagraph 2, the word "and by sector" is deleted. In paragraph 3, the words "subsectors" are deleted and the word "subsector" is deleted in subparagraph 7. I think that says enough about the fantastic changes that have been introduced into this second version of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29885	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29886	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When we were in the HDSSB club, we decided who would talk about this final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, because we were all reading it together, and still after all the readings we concluded that it was actually almost I would say brain suicide and logic and sovereignty because after a lot of reading and not a lot of articles and not a lot of material we couldn't be enough to say wisely to agree on this and to figure out what this law was saying. Although my colleague Reiner said that I am both a metric and what he should, I think he should even wear the label because it is actually about some harmonisation of the Croatian qualification framework with what is normal in that same sense, and in that same area, it is already Europe and the community, or the union that we approach on July 1st, I hope. But here I was caught in the end to explain the views of the HDSSB club because I am also in the first reading at that late night of November 15th 2012 relatively important matter which is here and therefore includes all segments of our education and qualifications that people can acquire in Croatia. So very important matter, that we discussed I say in the late nights in front of a relatively very, very small number of MPs. So here's the second time about this same subject. I'll start my quote presentation. Yesterday, I came from a huge headache about agricultural land in my apartment, and I turned on the TV and saw Kerume who made a statement that he had no business working in the Parliament because whatever he said or suggested nothing was adopted to him, so he was actually there and here unnecessary. He's unnecessary here. What's he doing here? There's work to be done in Split. Much more important work. That's what Mr. Kerum said. I don't think he's offended all of us sitting here and arguing. So we won't take his words seriously. But when it's a little bit more analyzed or dismembered, it's actually Kerum that's kind of right. I think we should think about saving, and here's what's supposed to be thinking about saving, about the administration, about abolishing the opposition part of the assembly. That's right, that's right. Great. The mayor's gonna end it when he's in Osijek and he's gonna be mayor and it's never gonna be. So Mr. Hajdukovic, I think, is he to put an end to the opposition there in Osijek can but difficult. So given everything that the speaker had said before me and that remark I made on behalf of the HDSSB club if I hadn't accepted anything, we didn't have to get a new text of the final proposal because it's exactly the same as the old one. Well, then, what I'd say is a little bit that Kerum is something he was right about. Not only about this law, we voted here and for the other day when the vote itself remained and the opposition came out clearly because of certain legitimate dissatisfactions in the debate. But since it is a stubbornly exclusive interpretation of health care in our schools, it is also stubbornly exclusively to propose this final bill. I'm not going into this right now for mentioning the subject. So it's everyone's opinion as Minister Jovanovic would say, and I agree, yes, but I think the debate is a conversation, an agreement, and it's much more important than anything else. Furthermore, another quote that I refer to which two people have spoken of the occasion in the same sense by raising the so-called so-called. ... After signing the accession contract, the former prime minister said on the question of journalists what it would mean for Croatia, she put it in the front row that it would mean for our young people the possibility of going and working in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same is true at a meeting in Zagreb where I was present and some English or British officials were present where the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the current foreign minister, said precisely that a considerable number of the departures of our young educated people to Europe were expected. I didn't understand and I don't want to realize that this legislative proposal is in the final form of exactly the means, one of the means by which it will be realized. I wouldn't want it to happen in the first place, and it's actually going to happen. Already now and when we do not have a Croatian qualification framework, this is what is happening. Already, according to statistics that have never been published but according to statistics of the State Statistics Institute is considered unofficially that tens of thousands of young people from Croatia leave Croatia each year to go outside Croatia to look for work. First of all, or mostly in EU countries. Ten thousand people a year, ten thousand young, educated for whom our taxpayers and this country paid for their education. We expect them when they end their working life in Europe back so that from Croatia, according to these quotes, they become Europe's largest nursing home with a pleasant climate and with a relatively pleasant life and climate and all others. Is that the goal of this government, of this state and of the ruling? Is that what this is all about? Is that a secret or a covert goal of it? I'm not saying that this law is exactly the one that makes it possible but a series of other measures, and this state of affairs in the state that is like this with nearly 4,000 unemployed is exactly what suits it, and I'm not accusing this government alone, which is in power for 13, 14 months than the previous one. What is done to Croatian young people and Croatian citizens? Where's Croatia going? Now I will no longer quote either Kerum or Mrs Kosor or Vesna Pusic but I will go after this final bill that requires that we mention ourselves again even though not the label E everything is translated so... The translated fully starting Croatian qualification framework and all concepts here have some meaning are translated clearly and in English so it could be French, French is also one of the world's languages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I warned last time, so I have no objections to these 8 degrees or 8 species that are listed here, let me just express myself there to find them here so that the degree of qualification that comes from primary education, vocational education, and up to the 8th degree of postgraduate, scientific, master's studies or university doctoral studies 8.2... /The speaker speaks English./... to say English that we can also translate this into English rather than look back at the National Council for Human Resources Development, which is the central strategic body of the Republic for the development of the Croatian qualification framework. It is said here in Article 10 that this council has a president and 24 members proposed by the institutions as follows. And then there's that, clearly, it's not understandable that there are no primary and secondary education representatives here, so they're represented by the agency. It's a good thing it's not an inspection representing them, I don't know who's supposed to represent, not direct people who work in secondary or primary education. The president and members of the National Council's mandate is five years, like the American president or the French. Usually the mandates began and ended with our president, usually started and ended with a single set of political and political governments, or someone hopes to extend it, I don't know, but good. In addition, funding or fees for working in the National Council is discussed. We're talking about a country that, just yesterday, the day before yesterday, Linic talks about cutting all these supplements etc. and we set up national councils, sector councils that have one plus ten so 11 members, national councils 24+1, 25 etc. and then, at the end when it comes to the funds needed to finance the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, it clearly includes labour and sectoral councils and national councils. So it's said as I said last time but not to repeat the year for 2012, 2013, 2014 is a total of about a million euros plus funds that should come from IPA funds. These are huge funds in this situation for the Croatian state. Could it have been different? Could it have been with a smaller number of members, that it would have been even more effective not to say a foreign expression more effectively? Let's all wonder together. And that's why here's the truth, and last time I looked back on this legislative proposal in my first reading and made the same arguments, but nothing was achieved nor what could be achieved there. So, well said Kerum or he as a member of the opposition, I think he is, in fact, unnecessary as an individual, but are we all needed here together? And this isn't just the first case. And the law that comes in the final form and the unchanged original form, or the one in the first reading. What do you say? I know that the need and harmonisation of the norm of everything, including that of the professional and educational system in the Republic of Croatia with EU standards and I know that this is almost inevitable although this law is strangely not bearing the E mark but only the PZ, for this reason, and in order to say the explicit exclusion and stubbornness of the HDSSB club, given the scale it takes to make us even with the titles and all other qualifications in the EU, it is necessary to be in favour, and yet when we look at this second part of which I have spoken to the composition of the National Council, the Professional Council and everything that follows this law, there would be against it. And then what do you do? Well, best to keep in touch with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29887	Thank you. We have two replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29888	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague when you started the exposure, I needed to recognize you a little bit, but I'm missing something on you then I realized it was a badge. I don't know. Maybe you lost him. So when you're just talking about my colleague, Kerum, correct me to my other colleagues if I don't remember well, but the only thing that my colleague Kerum said in this assembly is, I swear. I've never heard him say anything else, therefore, and that we had the best intention of accepting his suggestions I think we've been denied for his suggestions. You have stated a lot, you will remain constructively restrained that I am not surprised for you at all, if you do so normally, but I think that the Croatian qualification framework as I will later say in my individual debate is one of the most important laws that we have in this assembly. Here's how the distinguished academic Reiner said the same thing, and his club recognizes the need for something like this. And that is simple, I would dare say a life-saving market-economic need that has nothing to do with the European Union because Croatia will continue to have autonomy in editing its education system, of course by accepting certain European standards. As for the duration of the term of office, four or five years or seven years. The presidential term lasts 5, for example, in France, the presidential term lasts 7 years. This is not a political body, so I'm not talking about political bodies, I'm talking about professional bodies that will simply enforce the law. I don't see anything disputed here because these bodies will exist independently of governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29889	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29890	Mr. Non-existent Mayors, you forgot to say in this hallelujah, and what you said about constructively restrained is the art of your or your president who, when it came to the agreement with Slovenia, was then constructively restrained. Well, you remember history a little bit, and you haven't been, you haven't yet, maybe you haven't been to say in diapers when he said it or in cavemen. But take a look at the assembly sessions and get into the phonograms, and you'll see who's constructively restrained, starting with your party president and prime minister of the current government. So that's his wetlands, so you're still using it. And as far as the contents of your replica are concerned, there's nothing to answer because it's really meaningless.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29891	My colleague, yesterday I asked you to make sure that you speak in the Croatian Parliament. You speak both temperamentally and critically however you wish but do not speak at the level of age or sexual discrimination. The next line has Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29892	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I belong to those who are fascinated by our Rules of Procedure, who made it possible, for example. that the agricultural land law lasts 15 hours of debate. I've reported myself thinking I want to report to this same Rules of Procedure for correcting Mr. Grubisic's wrong quote, I don't know what you're raising my line, I haven't said anything yet, or I'll answer the line. So I answered the line to say first that Mr. Grubisic hurt his Rules of Procedure for 12 minutes talking about something that is not at all the topic of the agenda, of these 20 that you spoke of. ... Okay, 15, then it means 3 minutes you've been talking about the subject. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But as you are now in the replica of a colleague whom Mr. Djakic called a snotter the other day, you've got him in the middle of something, so you called him a diaper. It's just as much as a contribution to the subject. I think I know that actually the position of opposition is frustrating in some way, but it shouldn't be. Patiencely, patiently, etc., as we patiently and patiently suggested. Every smart government generally accepts what's smart if the law is in the first reading, so I believe that every government does. I remember '97. when I'm here, not here, but over there sitting in that Parliament of ours that was then two-home, that we had a lot of constructive suggestions so they didn't pass. I'll just tell you, I remember two of mine. When I opposed the division of Croatian mail and telecoms on Telekom and Post and the privatisation of Telekom, we now have what we have. Or, for example, Privatizing banks, so now we've got what we've got. I mean, don't stop, you have to be persistent and patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29893	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29894	Thank you very much. Mr. Komadina, I didn't know that privatizing banks was a subject and Telekom today, so here you are teaching me that it's on the agenda today, so now I'm a little smarter. But you're talking about frustration that we're opposition, so you're already so frustrated, I don't know what you of frustration can do because you've been waiting for power for eight years. So when I talked about frustrations, we would have to evaluate the age that affected people because of frustration. And as for that, I support and will always support your Križiste-Yellow Lokva highway, which is very frustrating for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29895	Now we've heard a lot about the qualification framework. It is up to the SDP representative club and counterpart Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29896	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. With great pleasure and, in fact, I welcome on behalf of the SDP Club the fact that we have in the debate a final bill whose application will have lasting, necessary and structural changes in the education system in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian qualification framework goes even beyond or in fact beyond the education system itself and will have significant consequences on both the labour market and its dynamics. Some of the discussions that have been so far, and some of the discussions that were in the first reading and the committee sessions have become evident, in fact, that it is a new concept in terms of and the establishment of the concept, but also its application. Therefore, before answering the question why it is important to establish a qualifying framework for a small introduction. Although education is a value for itself and exists as a public good, it is necessary and this is one of the most important and, if not most important, I repeat certainly not the only function of the education system, it is necessary that education prepares experts who will successfully respond to the constantly changing economic challenges and dynamic and wider labour market. It also means definitely breaking up... education as one period of life that has its beginning and end. Education and learning becomes and is a lifelong process, a constant of human life. This means that, accordingly, education systems need to be adapted in a broader sense. Also in a united Europe, the need for systematic evaluation of education in each country and their comparison with education systems in other countries is established on the basis of a common specific European reference framework, i.e. the target of the framework. The European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning aims to facilitate the comparison of transparent qualifications and qualification levels, enabling labour market mobility, the establishment of the concept of lifelong learning and quality assurance of education. The strategic objective of the European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning is to ensure that qualifications meet the personal, social and economic needs of each individual, every country and EU as a whole. The European Qualifications Framework guarantees that quality assurance is behind each qualification and in a flexible way enables each individual and individual to make horizontal and vertical progress through a qualification scale. The core of the European Qualifications Framework consists of 8 common reference levels where knowledge, skills and competences are classified as learning outcomes. These 8 levels of the qualification framework generally cover all levels and types of education and learning, and act as a means of identifying, understanding and comparing qualifications within EU countries. I hope that after this introduction to colleagues who were not clear what it was really about now is something clearer. Or maybe even simpler. The Croatian Qualifications Framework is an important insight into the management of the lifelong learning system which makes the backbone of the knowledge and social inclusion society. It is based on the Croatian educational tradition, covering the current situation, and the needs of the development of the economy of individuals and society as a whole. At the same time, it respects the specifics of the European Qualifications Framework, European guidelines and international regulations. Building a competitive European and thus Croatian economic space requires the mobility of competences, which means the mobility of citizens, and their recognition and use of them to the welfare of workers, employers and the entire community. In this respect, the Croatian Qualifications Framework has the task of linking learning outcomes achieved in all educational institutions, or I am particularly emphasising them in any other way, and of putting them in mutual relations in the Republic of Croatia and at international level. It sets clear criteria for the quality of acquiring a set of competences for which an education participant can expect to have after completing education for the qualification of a certain level and volume. The importance of HKO is also reflected in better integration of labour market needs with the implementation of school and education programmes, and in the evaluation of all learning outcomes. The availability of education systems to all individuals throughout their lives highlighted as one of the specific goals of HKO. HKO is designed and built to create a basis for building an acceptable, necessary and fair availability of the education system. What does all this mean specifically, and how will all this be accomplished? First about setting up qualifications at levels. For each level of law, it is laid down and prescribed how much total workload is required to obtain the qualification shown to the points. One point is 60 minutes of workload, and at which level learning outcomes should be achieved qualitatively, which are also classified according to the descriptions in the level. This will allow for accurate knowledge of quality, scope and achievement for each qualification at each level. We will no longer assume what competences this has, for example, a car mechanic with a finished high school of crafts or, for example, a master's degree in croatology. For each level, a minimum accession condition is also prescribed. This means that, for example, a simplified university cannot be enrolled after primary school, but that secondary education is necessary to enroll in the university. In addition to the full qualifications, it will be possible to recognise partial qualifications, which in practice means that for example, graduates on the labour market do not recognise graduates as we do today, although they have gained much more competence than high school students. Therefore, those who have completed their fourth level of education will already be able to recognise a partial qualification at level six or seven. HKO simply recognizes and values everything anyone knows and all the competences that an individual has. This principle is particularly reflected in the recognition of informal or informational competences and evaluation of work experience. In fact, many developed countries have realised that for the construction of a knowledge and social inclusion society, all forms of competence are of paramount importance, not only formal form. Each form of acquisition of knowledge and competence has a fundamental role and value. Some of these competences can be identified, singled out as a whole pillar of competences that are fundamental to society, have a more lasting value than others. For example, some others may belong to a set of competences that are subject to rapid changes and different needs of society and individuals. And it is clearly justified to acquire basic and permanent competences which are well known to everyone to organise mostly well-organised formal forms of acquisition of competence, formal learning or education. For example, these are all those competences that are acquired in schools or at the university. Such a system shall include specific institutions authorised for that job, certain programmes approved including the approved evaluation system, the assessment of the acquired competences of the individual. Other competences an individual can acquire on different or less organised occasions. Some competences can be achieved through organised activities that do not end formally accepted evaluations and evaluations it is known as informal learning, while some competences are even completely disorganised in daily activities. It's information learning. I particularly stress here that it is important that this bill is well recognised that informal learning does not need to be transformed into formal forms of learning in order to evaluate and acknowledge the bankruptcy of an individual's competences. If this is relevant for certain reasons to an individual then it is necessary to provide for procedures and instruments to be conducted and formal evaluation of informally-informally acquired competences, and to make their recognition clearly regulated. Understandable demonstration of educational achievements is achieved on the basis of the construction of a clear and simple display of all the characteristics of qualifications, and HKO is the instrument that regulates it. Or otherwise, HKO regulates qualifications in a way that is central to learning outcomes, not learning outcomes. Although it may seem different at first glance, HKO finally focuses on the content rather than on the form of education. Third, the general objective of HKO is to ensure the integration and coordination of all parts of the qualification system, including the labour market. This shows sustainable employability as one of the specific objectives achieved directly from the general objective during the implementation of the HKO. How exactly is this achieved? For each profession, a standard of profession is defined, i.e. sets of necessary competences for the relevant profession. Following the evaluation of the relevant sectoral council, it shall enter the sub-registration of the standard of interest in the register of HKOs. Training outcomes and authorised legal and natural persons for the award of certificates on acquired learning outcome sets are entered into the sub-registration sub-registration of learning outcomes, also based on the opinion of the professional, competent sectoral council and the standards of qualification of the programme for the qualification of authorised legal persons for the allocation of the correctness of the acquired qualification are entered in the sub-registration of qualification standards. So we have a sub-registration of learning outcomes, standards of occupation and standards of qualifications. The acquisition of individual qualifications can take place through several programmes, of course respecting the autonomy and creativity of educational institutions, but all programmes must comply with the appropriate qualification standard. And quite practically, the application of this mechanism will ensure that the demand is analysed before the educational offer is planned and justified objections will be avoided that, for example, schools or colleges come out of people who do not know how to do a job they are trained for because it will be necessary to achieve a standard of qualification and standard of profession. And that's one of the greater importance of HKO. So far, all of them in education could only guess, so in this speculation more or less, they would guess what competences a student needs after the completion of an educational programme so that he could function well on the labour market. With the setting of standards of interest and multi-sectoral cooperation through sectoral councils, it will no longer be necessary to speculate, but programmes will be designed to acquire qualifications according to specific standards and qualifications and professions. And best of all, after the completion of the educational program, everyone will know exactly what the testimony, diploma or certificate means and what competences a person has. There's been a lot of discussion here about the composition of the National Council for Human Resources Development. Yeah, it's a new concept that's completely multi-sectoral. I'm going to paraphrasize a saying here that says that the difficult problems we need to solve can't be solved in the same way of thinking that were when the problems occurred. It seems to me that when we talk about some complex problems from not only the educational system, but those that extend through more sectors, we must also come out of the applicable ways of thinking and thinking and of being entrenched or stalking ways of solving the problem and come up with some new ones. It is precisely a concept that is predicted through the application of HKO, of course with all those and legitimate fears whether or not it will be possible to implement it. The debate that has been so far over the past few years where all those key stakeholders are really sensitized about it gives hope to say that what is in the law will indeed be done in this way. HKO and this system bear a series of additional values. For example, simplicity, evaluation and recognition of foreign qualifications will be a direct result of the implementation of the HKO of the European Qualifications Framework and the qualification frameworks of other countries. In this respect, recognition of Croatian qualifications abroad will be facilitated by implementation of HKO. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law contains several important principles. Knowledge is the cornerstone of competitiveness, the concept of work for life is replaced by the concept of knowledge for work and the impact of technology and globalisation is recognised. By applying this law, everyone will benefit. Croatian citizens with qualifications will be easier to get a job or continue their education. Their qualifications will be recognised on both Croatian and European labour markets, and if they wish to continue education, previous learning and formal and informal and informative will be recognised, but with a strong quality assurance system. Benefits for employers – more comprehensible competences acquired and verified before acquiring qualifications and competences in line with labour market needs. And the benefit for educational institutions at all levels is increased attractiveness through the verified and recognised quality of institutions and programmes and a regulated system of quality of education. Finally, as in the first reading, the SDP will support this final bill. We are assessing this law as one of the most important reform laws that will have far-reaching consequences and we want to strongly support all those who will work in law enforcement, but also call as well as in their first reading on the political consensus on the adoption of this law. The expert consensus, i.e. the professional political consensus on this law, already exists. In the preparation of the law, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers and trade unions at all levels, the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools, the Rectors' Assembly, the Community of Primary and Secondary Schools, has been agreed. So there is this very broad professional consensus because it really is a project that is far beyond or over one political mandate or actually just one resolution. In this complexity, it may seem to be part of his incomprehensibility, but we do believe that although most incomprehensible or perhaps less understandablely new innovative concepts, the team needs more support here in the High House, which should actually be above such boundaries or so to say weak arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29897	Thank you. The Republic has Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29898	Thank you very much. Dear or esteemed colleague Lugaric here because we don't understand anything I would ask you a practical question if we didn't enter the theorizing. I would like to know how a man with good knowledge and skills will be included in the register, professor of history, lives on Trešnjevci in Zagreb and is best said by everyone in the neighborhood as a container researcher and a searcher for plastic bottles to feed his 5-member family? Will this be his information learning this other profession or non-formal learning so this container search? Because that's where they say he's fantastic. So the second professor of IT has a great one, and here I was even his assistant when he glued parquets, laminates or tiles. Now that this winter fair was on the Virus, he earned 2,3,000 kunas to feed his four-member family. Well, I don't know, given that he acquired that knowledge of whether he acquired it in the form of non-formal learning or information learning. It's very vague for me, let me tell you. How will you register it when a man has knowledge and skills, besides information, and this first one is a professor of history and geography and they can do fantastic things? This one I first said that the researcher was an explosiver of a container and this other one was a fantastic house master. So nice tiles, laminates and everything. Would that skill be to him, though not formally his education would be included in the register? Here's a practical question, I don't want much about the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29899	Reply to the replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29900	Comrade Grubisic, you have begun your question about how a man will register? Reading with understanding, and even without understanding, only reading Articles 13 and 14 says that a natural person does not register and that if you read the law, you would know that. I will not answer to this second part of your comments because it shows that they are not really worthy to be commented when we talk about the education system and the reform system of education. Because when we wonder why the state is a good part of the answer, it hides itself precisely in this kind of politicization of important issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29901	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29902	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Lugaric, that we at the HDSSB club did not understand the need to pass this law. Certainly this need for lifelong learning in Croatia at the end of our difficult road, the country's entry into the EU exists. But that this is one of the most important laws is true. As he's nomotechnically, methodologically written, it now depends on who prepared him for the MPs. Someone can understand it better, someone less, someone more dependent on who rules what topic. And it is not for, shame to say, that some things are not understood, the intention of the legislator is understood, and that is the need for lifelong learning, the need to bring Croatia's qualification framework in line with that of the European one. And what's real concern, for us shouldn't be, except our country and country's intensity must be to have as many educated people as possible, no matter what stages of life they've been in. Unfortunately, some cannot enroll in colleges because their parents do not have money, cannot finance their education and that the situation in the country is difficult, that when we all agree together and admit to ourselves that it is difficult then we will be able to understand all the problems. Because without stable state finances, no investment, no economy, no new jobs, this Croatian qualification framework will quickly cross the European framework, and we have witnessed in recent months that the borders of the Republic of Croatia have been abandoned by many young, precisely educated people who, unfortunately, have been unable to stay in our state and border territory due to the problems in the country. And that's our concern, which should be the concern of all MPs. So not jumping off the subject that this isn't necessary. The HDSSB club, Mr. Grubisic, spoke we support the adoption of this law, expressed our concerns in certain parts when it comes to the National Council, the autonomy of the university, the professional council. This is what representatives' comments are, and we all have to admit together that it is only one of the essential laws that in that time, which we hope and hope all of us should live since 1 July, should be a link to a better life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29903	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29904	A fellow Salapic that I absolutely agree that it is not a shame to say that something is not known, but that is the size of a man, but it is a shame then that no categorical arguments can be made. I'm not going to reply to the replica this way because it's not about this bill itself because I don't want to support what you're doing that way. On every subject, talk about everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29905	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29906	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This is when my colleague Lugaric is in the Parliament and when my colleague Jovanovic is in the Assembly, we should be careful what we say. Like this, every great deed is great by being simple. Everything that's simply written and literature, any other area. Every speaker who understands is a good speaker, an excellent speaker, everything we have to figure out and what an average man can't understand is missed. The style of this law has been completely missed. So this law is definitely not a big deal, it doesn't mean it doesn't have to be passed, you'll vote on Friday anyway, but it won't live in practice. The question now is how the opposition reacts, counterpart Lugaric said earlier that some clubs, insulting but vice president of the parliament had no need to react, that some clubs were always talking about the same thing, did not mean us this time, but he will probably think about us after this speech. When, when a club proposes 17 laws in a year or an amendment and is not proposed a single comma, then it is a duty, the opposition club I think normally, not a positional one, then it is a duty for these politicians to send a political message from this stage to their voters, to warn about what the government is doing, to warn about what is not a good language that citizens understand, which citizens understand and how they think it is best. Before Mr. Grubisic from this pay phone said something about what Kerum thinks in politics, what does Kerum think of power? I don't think Mr. Kerum means anything, Kerum is an insult to both politics and politicians and to those who brought him to Parliament. To abolish the opposition part of the Parliament would be the easiest. For a time, remember exactly this side that today is governmental, which behaves like it shouldn't behave, it's been coming out of Parliament for a while, the ones who remember for a long time, because HDZ didn't respect their proposals. We would have been easy, actually if we were to act the way they do, we should get up in January last year and come in three years so they can behave as they wish. Here's so much in the introduction, this is what it's all about. So this is what I realized from the beginning, with my colleague Lugaric I find very qualified in this subject not to allow anything to be said, I listen very closely to the Committee and to the Parliament, but I do not allow the doctoring, and this has been narrating who understands, it is known what. I'm not saying that. I spoke with force of opportunity because Mr Vuljanić is in Europe and in the first reading of this law I speak and now and the law of first reading is almost prescribed and it says enough again how far the Kukurik coalition holds to the public debate and to a different opinion and attitude of the opposition that this time agrees with counterpart Reiner did not act on political messages from his bus. When we first talked about this law, we didn't speak politically. We talked about the essence, about the metrics, but nothing was accepted. And what we do now, we say the same thing, so on Friday, we'll vote what we want. In the discussion of the law in the first reading, laborists were of the opinion that principles and objectives should be set out, because definitely between principles and objectives, there is no sign of equality, nor can be placed in the same basket. We've advocated the separation of knowledge and skills. We were saying something like that and my colleague Coleman from the HNS, I remember, although it was a few months ago. Levels of the Croatian qualification framework will lead to confusion as much as thought contrary to what counterpart Lugaric says is so incomprehensible to us laymen, I would like it to be understandable. High school and vocational education is equalized, university and professional studies are equalized, pre-graduate and graduate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It sets out bodies and stakeholders in the development and application of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and lists the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. That's what we talked about first reading. Another new one, I guess, and I believe in a paid body. I would ask Minister Jovanovic to explain what the body for the development of human potentials will do? I've read what the law says, but I'm really interested in making it even more clear to me because I didn't understand. Maybe I'll be better titles or titles considering one annual practice of the Kukuriku Coalition National Council for the Development of Party or even better coalition potentials. The National Council assesses and values public policies. It makes recommendations, suggests, tracks, values, delivers opinions. The National Council has 24 members and presidents of course paid. There is therefore another body paid for by the sectoral council, none of the opposition we have proposed constructively you are neither in this law, nor in any law discussed in this assembly may be a mistake. So you certainly don't care how we vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29907	Thank you very much. Gordana Sobol has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29908	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So just to be true, fellow Vuksic, you said at the beginning of your presentation that the current government is the current opposition that we have abandoned the work of this Parliament because the government did not respect our proposals. I remind you that the SDP then left at the end of 2011 the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we left the hall and never came back to the end because then the HDZ government and its coalition partners re-entered the verbal part in this Croatian Parliament. It was then that they voted to remove immunity from today's Minister Jovanovic because of the words spoken here in the Croatian Parliament. That's why we left, and otherwise all the years in the opposition could have come out looking for a break, so you go out and you come back, but only when we really went out were we not coming back until the end of the Parliament's session, so to the end of that call, that was the introduction of a verbal delicacy. And with our legal proposals, we kept going before the then ruling coalition over and over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29909	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29910	Dear colleagues can't tell you now who the dates were, you were one longer time out of the Parliament, you didn't come to the assembly. I'll get that out of you, and I'll give it to you on paper. I can't, really, but I remember well, I followed as a journalist at the time. We keep suggesting the same thing, if we weren't persistent, we would have given up after the first time, but we're here just to warn you that you're doing the wrong thing in our opinion, that doesn't mean that you're doing the wrong thing, that maybe we're wrong, that's what I'm going to end up doing well for the people of the Republic in the elections. However, it is not wise to ignore the opposition so much when the opposition proposes something. It's not wise, you're just saying right now that this is a professional law and there shouldn't be politics and that political rakurs shouldn't look at this law. It's been talked before. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Answer your colleague Sobol, she did not talk about it.]] I'm sorry, then I'd ask you to do the same thing when the SDP gets off the topic to warn him the same thing. I apologize for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29911	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29912	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm very much of a last-minute person, but in time, I was raised, so I can see that you've appreciated it and thank you very much for that. The replica to Mr. Vuksic. So Mr. Vuksic, you're talking about a certain vagueness of expression here and then it was very easy for me to think of a single saying which would be simple if it could be complicated. And secondly, whether I understand it or not, if someone thinks someone doesn't understand something, I still didn't get an answer to my question, so what I asked was, how are we going to evaluate the knowledge and skills of those here teachers who do what I said and what I said despite the fact that they are being declared to be constantly talking about how they should protect the dignity of the educators and will they be helped by these professors in this dignity by the Croatian qualification framework? Or will he stop setting up parquets like this on black or in the gray economy after that? Will they stop looking for bottles on plastic containers? That's what I asked for an answer but I didn't get it. Apparently, the one I asked that question doesn't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29913	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29914	A very short colleague, you must not desecrate this bill to situations of everyday life, so when it comes to teachers or doctors digging through the container. Do not violate this noble act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29915	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29916	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's the minister's time I'm gonna stick to the subject and try to highlight some things that I don't think my colleagues before me and my colleagues are. My colleague Lugarić is giving a clear summary of what the Croatian qualification framework wants to achieve and what are the ways I want to do it. However, I would like to reiterate that the adoption of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is not necessarily conditioned only by our almost hoping to join the EU. In fact, the circumstances in modern society are more dynamic than they were 20, 30 or more years ago. The need for education is created throughout life. Sometimes for the simple reason that some are interested simply die out for the working life of certain people. So those who have been trained for certain occupations are slowly extinct, disappearing and replaced by new ones, are simply the needs and demands of a modern market society and the market economy. Formal education often cannot follow these trends at least not so quickly and cannot be adapted so quickly to market needs. We can analyze the reasons why this is so, perhaps the formal education system is too much, simply so that the changes that take place on the basis of 5 to 10 years could be followed in quality. But that is what the Croatian qualification framework is trying to do. The need to evaluate and put an end to extra-institutional informal and informative education, many times because new interests simply arise in the need for new activities that have not existed until then have not been recognised within the formal education system and simply by the people who could not do these jobs. Self-educated is also one of the essential elements that I must consider when adopting this law. In fact, we often say that someone is self-taught. Whether self - teaching is a guitar, for example, or in a foreign language, but we think that someone has learned by his own efforts, acquired certain skills, learned certain matter. That is why I think the value of the Croatian qualification framework is that the minister mentioned earlier that he puts an emphasis on the outcome of the process rather than the process itself. So if someone can at the end of the learning process of playing guitar prove that they can play guitar, they also need to be given a formal qualification in order to do so and perhaps for professional purposes. But what I particularly want to stress, and what I think has also missed so far in the debate are several principles and objectives of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which I consider extremely important for Croatian society and the economy as a whole, but in particular in these conditions, a lot of newspapers with which we will be and will meet by entering a large European market between us and the labour market, as well as new circumstances that exist on the global labour market and would be indirectly in Croatia, regardless of our EU accession. And these are the following: ensuring economic growth based on scientific technological development, because we talk a lot about Croatia as a knowledge country, and we strive for this, so this is one step towards strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy based on human potential and achieving the employability of individual and economic concreteness and harmonised social development based on education. I think the Croatian qualification framework is doing exactly that and I would put a focus on these three things. That is what I should say to Croatia both because of the global market and because of the European market, but also because of ourselves, so that we can adapt as best as possible and evaluate on the world labour market as well as on any other market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29917	Thank you. Boro Grub the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29918	Thank you, Vice President. Here is colleague Hajdukovic, you can see how well we know each other and agree that in relation to the assessment of skills and professions and everything else. Well, since you asked me about my badge here, look, I have another skill in knowing the Cyrillic letter, and my badge says here on Cyrillic hero, not criminal, look at Cyrillic writing a fine hero, not a criminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29919	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29920	I mean, we've been doing this to interrupt sessions, but I have to because you're not the chairman since this colleague Grubisic hurt me so that as a member of the Serbian National Minority, you hurt me... which is for you to say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'm asking you to consider this my suggestion that he hurt the Rules of Procedure to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29921	You didn't even give me a chance because you picked up the board right away and I have to give you my word on the rules of procedure right now. And my colleague Grubisic, please take care of how you step forward. Reply to the replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29922	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad you put on a badge. It's hard to recognize you without it. I also know the Cyrillic, and I believe that the Croatian qualification framework will give me a way to implement it today-to-morrow in my professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29923	Thank you. And it is time for the debate of colleagues Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29924	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the introduction of a Croatian qualification framework to edit the entire qualification system at all educational levels and it is undeniable that this is one of the very important documents in our education system. But because of those who started their discussion today that nothing is good anywhere, and how this government is tasked with introducing order and work into the system, I understood the whole of the countries, and mostly education, I will return us back a little to not so long ago history and remind you what it was all done in reform education, so let's go somewhere there since 2005 when the Development Plan for the Education and Education System was adopted in 2005-2010, when major changes took place in legislation. During that period, a Croatian national educational standard was adopted and implemented which was introduced in the school year 2006/2007 in all primary schools. As good as he was or not, that's what the experts will say. It's still working on it, so I don't know it's not good. In the field of secondary education, the first national exams were launched in 2006 as a preparation for the conduct of state education, an introduction which also meant external evaluation of education as an objective indicator of quality of secondary education. National exams ensured the uniformity of students' educational achievements, and students at all levels of the education system were to work in equal conditions. Well, if you remember, there's been a lot of debate here about introducing state pedagogical standards at all levels, from pre-school, primary and high school. Surely, the financial situation is changing these pedagogical standards in reality, but it is also a very significant document that, along with this document that we are discussing today, also makes one of those little cubes in this mosaic in education. I must also mention, in particular, that these years have taken place and that the most significant changes have occurred in the development of vocational education. We now have the information that 70% of our high school students are enrolled in vocational schools, so it is in this vocational education that we have to admit has experienced the most reform processes. The main objectives of this reform were redefine the educational sectors and redefine the interest in the educational sectors, define the output knowledge, skills and competence for each profession, create a modern curricula for each profession. I have to tell you that we have reduced the number of professions from 1400 to 323 in all sectors, that reduced educational areas from 13+1 to artistic ones. So all this was done on the trail of what we have today, which led to the proposal of this document. And that's why I can't agree with my colleague Coleman who says that nothing happened, nothing was done, and that these reform laws were primarily created by new, better conditions and better work. I don't think that's good, it's not good because as happy as we are with introducing a system of Bologna process on our studies and on our universities, the university, we introduced it, we moved one step. Whether we are satisfied or not, whether we are well prepared or not, it is indeed an object of still evaluation and debate. Croatia has set itself in this period for something else, for lifelong learning which is a very important form of education, first of all because a colleague, Hajdukovic, has now said something, changes in technological, technological changes, in the economy are changing professions, the requirements of exit competences are changing, and that is why the lifelong learning that has just been introduced is a very important and very big step in bringing this law before us. The goal of the adoption of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is among other things, and said the minister, said academic Reiner, increased mobility of students and labour, which is good, and I think we need to lead ourselves to open the door to our workers, our students, our students, but we need to show one fear that today-to-morrow because we do not support just those who would like to engage in science, which we do not support young scientific recruits may happen to us that in one period we will be left without scientists. I see there's a new Law on Higher Education and Science going on in the debate, and I think some things in it you've accepted, but I think we're going to have to talk a lot more about. He is also bound by this national qualification framework. A significant role, therefore, in the policy of lifelong learning, is also the education of adults who have been traditions in Croatia, and only this lifelong learning, I would say, is that the continuation of this good tradition, but also something that was not in this adult education. Now we recognize both forms of information and informal learning. So far, we have not recognised that, until now, our future workers, our future, those who participate in the economy, have not been able to put such things in the workbook or in the evaluation, but there is one but, but we still need to adapt our economic system to that. Both the Committee on Education and through all possible discussions on this Law have concluded that all of us in education structures will get used to and there will be not much misunderstanding or understanding about qualifications. But what we're going to do with so-called. the economic system, with employers who, unfortunately, do not recognise the level of education either, or recognize, I will say the occupations that everyone understands. We need to work together systematically, and it's good that all the different ministries are involved in this. Because it must be the Ministry of Labour's responsibility and the Ministry of Economy. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the task of these chambers must be carried there, this task on its back to say, to explain to employers and the entire economy, the whole system of interest, which competence is needed for a particular job. Neither will the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports. That's what they'll have to do in the field. And I think there's no problem with understanding. I'm sorry Minister you haven't really taken some good remarks from our first reading. I think as much as I thought it wasn't a measure of things in this Law, the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials, and it should wear the same thing as I talked about earlier, we've shown a concern that it's a preamble body and we said, someone said here in this debate that, but you've also asked for an addendum to be complemented by some other representatives. Well, look, if you said that in this system of 25 people one representative of the agency is responsible for education and education, one representative of the agency responsible for vocational education, one representative for science and high and so on, I'm not going to add everything up, then it really wouldn't be bad because it's about people who are directly involved in education being representatives of primary and secondary education here, and we can introduce this through just two more institutes. We have the principal's assets, we have the presidents who are at national level, the community of primary and secondary school directors. Perhaps they will be the best link between those who educate future high school students, and let's call the future workers, too. And I appreciate the agency's knowledge and ability, but these are people who are really a step outside the system, the real system that implements education. When we were 25 and you didn't accept the reduction, then you should have at least accepted this initiative to increase with these people who are directly involved in the education system. And I'm going to ask you one answer that I've asked the representatives of Here's the question. [[/Intruder Batinić: Time. Here you go.]] Representatives on the Committee, two representatives of regional self-government, taking care of balanced regional representation on a proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development. I guess what your answer will be. Croatia is divided into two regions, so it will be those representatives. But I don't think that's good yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29925	My colleagues, Roksandić, you've run out of time. We have one replica of Maria Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29926	Dear colleague Roksandić, I agree with many of the things you said in your presentation. I am particularly pleased that you mentioned the Law on Professional Education, which was passed in the last term, seems to me a consensus, at least we of the SDP were in favour of the law. You of the majority were in favour of the law because in a large part of the technology to say so this Act on HKO copys or promotes the shortcomings established by the mechanism through the Law on Professional Education, we are just richer in the experience of applying the Law on Professional Education. This is, on the other hand, a guarantee that imaginary mechanisms with standards of qualifications through the sectoral council, the National Council, etc. It's something as new as it seems, and it's not so new, but it's kind of under quotes being tested through one system, so I hope that this debate of yours, too, and then this replica of mine will in some way disassociate fellows who have spoken in some way about this kind of mechanism. Secondly, it is also quite interesting to set up a Council for Professional Education of 17 members who, both by their composition and by their means of appointment, are exactly the opposite of what you are up for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29927	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Roxandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29928	Exactly, colleague Lugaric, you know that we have brought this law by consensus. It is applicable and it is indeed the best visible application on the ground, and it complements this law. However, a very important document on which the adoption has been under way since the beginning of 2005 and whose application will have no purpose, this is the one we are talking about today if all stakeholders do not participate in creating a strategy for the needs of the labour market, which I have not been able to say in my debate. In fact, all this will fall into the water if we don't have a strategy for the needs of the labour market, if we don't know what we need tomorrow from local level to state level, and this document won't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29929	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dunja Špoljar, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29930	Thank you, Vice President, Ministers with Associates, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. There are certainly no easy decisions for education, and there are no non-essential laws for education. Still, some are of strategic importance. That is exactly the proposal for a law on the Croatian qualification framework. HKO will enable vertical and horizontal passing, regulate or better say reform the system in a way that will regulate qualifications, thus determining what competences are needed in Croatia, but also in the European labour market and these qualifications will finally become understandable to all employers in both Croatia and Europe, following the strategic priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. The key concept is to coordinate. Coordination at the level of different ministries, Croatian Parliament, educational institutions, academic community, student assembly, professional chambers, employers and the Croatian Employment Institute. This is thus the result of the future implementation of the HKO and the partnership between those institutions. Each parent reassessssssssssssssssses decisions about his children as much as any child, or young man reevaluates his own decisions. Have I done enough, have I motivated enough, have I helped obtain all the necessary information, will my child's life path, or will my own be easy and fruitful or predetermined for failure? Therefore, it is not simple to choose future occupation and calling, to enroll a school or college that guarantees life’s success. Ten of the world's most wanted jobs in 2004 did not exist at all. Today, school students would have to prepare for jobs that do not yet exist and use technologies that have not yet been invented to solve problems that we do not yet know exist and that have not yet arisen. Today’s average world student by the age of 38 will change a total of 14 jobs. In such a civilization environment, systematicity is necessary, and that is exactly what HKO offers. HKO creates assumptions that determines what interests, knowledge and competences are needed by the Croatian society for faster development. In order to develop a competitive economy, it is necessary to integrate education, employment and regional development policies. The European and global labour market is also our reality for which HKO will create the basis for assessing the outcome of non-formal learning, for example through courses, and to ensure that Croatian citizens' employability and competitiveness are raised on the European labour market. First of all, our children must adopt the fact that lifelong learning is a necessity and mastering the skills of learning throughout life. Only in this way will it be ready for the European labour market. Just like that, the next HKO will no longer educate young people for the labour market but for well-respected, well-paid and permanent jobs. The law has passed two readings, it's sanded and ready to be implemented. It will not be easy or short-lived, it is expected to take about 2 years for HKO to live. Finally, HKO will provide conditions for quality education and learning in accordance with the needs of personal, social and economic development, ensure opportunities and social inclusion and guarantee the abolition of all forms of discrimination. I will again underline and in this debate by accepting and implementing HKO we will help our children, our citizens have clearly defined their own educational goals to learn their whole lives and thus become and remain taught what is really important because he has been taught throughout the world while the king is only king in his kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29931	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29932	Dear colleagues, I almost fully agree with your exposure. One writer said from the cradle to the grave is the most beautiful student age is Branko Radčević, born in Slavonski Brod, by the way. So it's gonna be us, that's how we're gonna learn our whole lives, and it's gonna be our best because we're gonna be in the student age, right? But what I don't like about your speech, not that I don't like it, but it's symptomatic that you're saying that we're going to be educated for the European labour market. I would much prefer to have this Croatian qualification framework and what is therefore contained in it, which consists of being for the Croatian labour market. So, this is where these kids find a job, stay here. To have such opportunities here economically and economically so that they can find a job in Croatia through this. I am not against mobility as Mrs. Lugaric said was mobility or labour mobility. It is clear that in Europe there is and we will be part of Europe. But I would much prefer that these men of ours with their knowledge and skills, our children, stay here. That's what this is about. There you go. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29933	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague of the Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29934	It is easy to answer the replica when it begins I fully agree with you. So thank you for the replica. In fact, I am merely warning of that necessity and reality, which is that Croatia will be part of Europe and so will the Croatian market part of the European labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29935	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Iron Flego. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29936	National qualification frameworks are compatible with the European Qualifications Framework, and therefore the adoption of this law is, in fact, the adoption of a system law that will regulate the labour market, regulate the education system and actually enable Croatia to fully integrate into the EU and as far as this is concerned. Since the main EU premises are to be made possible, create an area in which the circulation of the workforce of people, goods and ideas will then actually enable this law. And there's actually something going on that we could call a new mental set. There will be no more only Croatian labour markets. We will be part of the European labour market if the labour market is at all an adequate challenge which we mean. This law actually regulates the levels of relevant professions and effectively introduces the education system into an appropriate obligation against what is written in this law and the obligation to transform it according to those provisions that it makes to itself. The law, apart from being systematic in this regard and reformal, is also in this sense reformal. He does not deal with procedures, but deals much more with content and in fact this list of levels of competence, i.e. knowledge and skills, is a list that was built on learning outcomes, so on the final results. And in this sense there is an expression of his newspaper and its innovation. We must learn, we think in Croatia, of course not just us in Croatia, to approach qualifications in a different way at all. On the one hand, there will be a level of qualifications, on the other hand there will be appropriate specifications that will no longer be specifically normable in sub-levels, and this was the most discussions on working bodies, but will actually be defined by something called a degree supplement or in formal regular learning, or a list of competences. Therefore, in what will be called, I do not know the electronic workbook or whatever you want to find a list of competences that the employer will look at and choose those candidates that suit him most. And in that sense, the law brings innovation. In order to learn to walk, however, after the law is passed, many more actions and talks and arrangements with employers and their associations are needed, and one of the many complex, sometimes and cumbersome jobs, so I would like to make you aware of what is ahead of us, so to talk to employers, to get to know them with a new system that unfortunately we did not do when the Bologna process was introduced, and the first-rates flew into a vacuum and thus to enable people who are going to learn in, into the labour market to allow them to be hired. Two more or less by the way or outside remarks. I'm sorry there's no Mrs. Roxandic. In the last term, we were the opposition coming to the committee with amendments and sometimes, if you remember, the committee adopted 30 and some of our amendments. So, I think the dissidents are one thing, and reality is another, unfortunately you haven't taken advantage of that possibility, it will expire in 2 minutes when I stop talking, because I am the last speaker and please use those business opportunities at your disposal in the future. The second external remark is thanks to both the minister and those who ran the business in lawmaking. Because not only was a large team of various experts and stakeholders involved in the law-making process, but it was also part of the participation of representatives of the legislative authority. Maybe we haven't always used all your calls, but we've been getting them, and I hope it could become an infection in your ministry. And to invite us to your next legal projects, and we will respond as much as we can or as much as we are interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29937	Thank you, too. And Minister Jovanovic concluded. Please welcome the Ministers on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, thank you to all who discussed on behalf of the clubs or individually. Here you go with this last one, what the esteemed representative Flego said. So why was our first reading text so good that it didn't have to be carried out so much until the second reading because it wasn't done either in the SDP laboratory or in any other party, but based on the profession and science through a whole series of workshops where representatives and trade unions participated, and academic communities, and primary and secondary schools, so everyone who was interested. On the basis of these proposals, the first text was drawn up which was here in the debate and on which we received certain remarks. All the above remarks that meant improving the text we incorporated into the text. We have tested all the remarks again in the conversation with the stakeholders of this process and the academic community, and the unions, and the Economic and Social Council. The opposition to me, though some may not think very much, encourages me to make my proposals even better and even better. And we at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the analysis of the proposals that we get have one special method, we put all the proposals that arrive on the papers and it doesn't say who suggested them and then analyze these proposals to get the most quality solution. Therefore, we need the opposition to, but a high-quality and constructive opposition which will propose concrete improvements to the amendments, as the distinguished representative Flego said. Representative Coleman spoke about the National Council and some other MPs referred to whether the number of 25 council members would be complicated to manage. If someone's incompetent, they can't handle themselves. The person elected as President of the National Council on the basis of criteria, I am sure he will have all the skills needed to do his job in quality, with the sectoral councils which will be key to the implementation of this law in particular. Of course, the deadlines we've given us are long enough for us to do whatever it takes to implement the law, that's what I said when I first read it. This is the easiest step, the easiest really passed law, should be implemented in practice. Why is this law so important? Some said that law was actually unnecessary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law is a prerequisite for the withdrawal of funds from the European Funds, the huge resources available to us and which will enable our education system to be more quality and that our link between the education system and the labour market is better and better. There is no representative of Roksandić. She's listed what's been done in the past. A lot of things have been done well, but what are our results? Here's if you look at today of all the students who graduate from vocational schools less than 50% of them manage to find a job within which they use knowledge acquired during education. So this is proof that we need a Croatian qualification framework that will link education, the labour market, the needs of Croatian society in the coming years. It is precisely the task of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and we say that it is a fundamental reform instrument which, of course, did not begin to build on the day that I became a minister, I said at the beginning but we gave it to the ministry as a first task and continued what those before us did to have this text here on the table today, and that this text would allow us to have greater employability and greater social inclusion in Croatia, of course, I want as many of those who finish school work in Croatia but why we would not allow this law to work in the EU, whose part we will be 1.7, so we will all be Croats but we will all be Europeans. Therefore, this law enables our citizens to be equal with everyone in the EU and not to be citizens of the second order in the EU. It is the task of both this Parliament and the Croatian Government and all of us as politicians. So a man who wants to do something finds ways to do it, one who won't find excuses. I'm in this group that will find ways to implement the work that this government thinks has committed itself to. I thank everyone in this debate and I ask that you unanimously support this law on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29939	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica of Branko Vuksic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29940	Dear Minister Jovanovic, I agree with you. Amendments should be made, proposals should be made, debated. But not only have we written 30 amendments so far and 50 I don't know, I need to add it up. We also wrote the laws. We wrote a law that was much better than government law. We wrote it just before the debate in the Croatian Parliament, two months ago. What did the government do? The law gave its order, voted, after two months our law came to the agenda. It's about the HRT law. That behavior, this is just declarative that, you suggest nothing is accepted in the Parliament. That doesn't mean you have it, that doesn't mean you don't do it differently than you said the methodology. Don't write whose proposal it is, but it is to you anyway I do now because I don't know but often it's the right side, on my right, I don't know if it's the left or the right side, which they themselves know is that we laborers speak demagogue. Demagogy is exactly what you write, write because you know you won't even read it anyway, and you won't respect what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29941	We don't have a reply to the replica. I'm closing the debate. I thank the minister with the associate. We'll vote Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29942	Final draft law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, second reading, P.Z. No. 183. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 32 votes, have been abstentioned to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29943	We move to - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, second reading, PZE No. 146 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to welcome Deputy Minister Mr. Stubel with an associate. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of the proposed law shall provide the President of the Republic of Croatia with adequate equal protection upon termination of his duties, given that he is allowed to return to work with employers in whom he has been in a working relationship with an indefinite period of time and as employers with whom he concluded a special contract. The request for return shall be submitted within 15 days of the termination of the duties, and the employer shall make a decision to return to work within 45 days of the day of termination of his or her duties. After the termination of his duties after returning to work, he shall have the right to compensation up to the amount of two salaries in accordance with specific rules if the employer has not made a decision to return to work within a prescribed period of 45 days or the decision to return to work the president has not accepted the right to pay from the day following the termination of his or her duties. It is possible to exercise the right to a pension whose amount is defined as an old age pension under the pension insurance law. It is possible to continue to have the right to an office, two civil servants to carry out official or administrative and other office work, as well as a personal driver and an official private vehicle. The right to office, two civil servants, a personal driver and an official private vehicle shall be limited for a period of five years after the term of office of the President has ceased. The President of the Republic of Croatia, who is now exercising law under the law, continues to apply the right achieved within the same scope and may use them permanently after the entry into force of this law. What are the differences between the solutions proposed by this final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the bill from the first reading? He has the right to return to work and not only with employers who were in a working relationship with a certain time before the start of his duties but also with employers with whom he concluded a business contract. The period for submission of the request for return shall be reduced from 30 to 15 days and the obligation of the employer to make a decision within 45 days of the submission of the application shall be prescribed. From the end of his duties until his return to work, the President shall have the right to pay compensation in accordance with the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State but not more than two salaries and two months, respectively, until a return to work is realised. However, if the employer has not made a decision to return to work within the prescribed time limit or the decision to return to work, the President shall have the right to pay a salary from the day following the termination of his or her duties. It is specified that the amount of pension is defined as an age pension under the Pension System Act. Here are the papers and suggestions we suggest for discussion and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29945	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Three newspapers are introduced into this law. The first is the right of the President of the Republic after the end of the term of office of the employer who worked before his entry into office and in a law which is behind this on the agenda relating to other civil servants is also listed as a newspaper. One observation that it is not about a new legislative solution to the right of return of state officials or the President of the Republic to return to work with the employer from whom he went to the post because such a provision and such right had previously been written in the Labour Act that was worth it to me until '98 or 2003. We return to solutions that for some other reasons, the initiative, the situation in the country have been abandoned, it has been seen that it is not good both now and for the former president and presidents who have stopped the mandate we give him the opportunity to decide whether he will return to work with the employer who previously worked or will exercise his right, which is a new right to retire. This provision in Article 2 of the amendment and addition for some is rather vague and controversial and on the Committee on the Constitution there have been a lot of discussions, discussions and interpretation of such a provision, the way in which the amount of pension will be calculated. If someone 45 years old after his term of office of the President of the Republic decides to retire, and we are now in a situation where all presidents, by age and by employment, have been above it, but there may be a time when someone, 60, 70 or 80 years old, will be elected in Croatia for the President of the Republic. These changes are acceptable given that we apply the same rule to other civil servants, so when it comes to the right to return to work with the former employer, the exception is the former President of the Republic who exercises the right to retire regardless of the length of the employment. It is therefore a single right and a right to retire regardless of the general pension regulation as regards the conditions for retirement and the amount of pension under the Pension Insurance Act. What we are content with is the provision of Article 6. That applies to only one person in the Republic of Croatia, only one man, and that is the former president of the Republic of Croatia, for whom provisions on rights to office, assets, insurance, drivers are not worth the five-year limit, which means it will be worth life. In a reasoned so-proposed solution, therefore, the Government has called for the right acquired. The Committee on the Constitution on which the professors of constitutional law were present also warned, and I warned that this argument about the right acquired simply does not hold water. And we, in this House, have at least one right acquired on average a month, to remove the unemployed, the employees, the poor, the homeless, and there has always been an argument or a crisis or saving the change of circumstances, new conditions. However, when we came to the former president of the Republic, we now use the argument of the right acquired as a single argument. This is not acceptable but behind this is actually a political decision that at this point, we do not want to abolish the rights that were and existed when he stopped being President of the Republic and began to apply the law rights. Someone may be angry, disdainful, express their personal views because it is Stipe Mesic, but this provision of Article 6 applies only to Stipe Mesic and will never be applied to anyone else. Which are the reasons for economic, financial, economic or any other than political that this right which is acquired by God, which can no longer be changed remains. If we have written and adapted all other provisions of the Law on the Rights of State Officials to the economic, economic and social situation in this country, if we are also the right of the President, future presidents, to return to work with the former employer and to regulate the former president's pension differently why only that provision remains under the pretext of the right acquired, except for such a political decision. I personally do not have anything against Mr Stipe Mesic, but why should he be the only person in this country to whom in law we introduce a provision that applies only to him and will never be able to apply to anyone else and extend certain rights that will not be used by any future, former President of the Republic of Croatia. No future, former president of the Republic of Croatia. His pension rights are not touched, and his rights remain both the office and all benefits, five years as well as any future former president of the Republic of Croatia. What is humiliating about the institution of the President of the Republic? If all future former presidents have equal rights to return to work under this law, the right to retire regardless of the insurance and pension internship and the 5 years of the right to office and benefit, why not apply it to the former president of the Republic today. No argument that would be understandable, acceptable, except for the political stance that the ruling majority decided so, I didn't hear. Neither legal, constitutional, social, social, and justly, no one brought it up. Or it is in the background of such a provision of paranoia and fear that in this way we want to protect ourselves from, say, Mr. Mesic accidentally wouldn't have activated himself in the upcoming local elections, so he made a mess, crushed the accounts, and thus amortized those possibilities. We will not support this bill unless the provision of Article 6 remains in it. It is unacceptable for the Croatian Parliament to pass a law in which there is a provision for a single man, regardless of his merits, values, contributions. If we regulate, and by this law we regulate the rights of all future former presidents of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29947	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Lesar was talking about something that had already been discussed and in the first reading of the law, and here I will say that this will probably be like crying thirsty in the desert because we have the same arguments seemed to me quite convincingly when this law was in the first reading. Unfortunately, in addition to some cosmetic repairs, the law does not seem to have seen any significant changes and that even in the final text, the same things and the same remarks we spoke about when this law was in the first reading, except perhaps somewhat amended Article 2. So I'm going to ask the Proposer to try and explain this to us in a clear way so that we understand the opportunity of his reach when it comes to a person who, by the age of 35, was elected president of the Republic of Croatia whose term ends at the age of 40, this person has, say, 15 years of retirement or insurance and 40 years of life. Under such a principled provision, I would be interested to know if that man, the person, decided to retire after the term of office, what his pension would be. I'm afraid to count, but I suppose if this article were to be applied to make that pension somewhere in the amount of today's 1200 kuna. And that's why we think that this law is actually a cartoon that came from a government workshop, and I'm going to say something about it from a completely wrong source. Namely, by respecting your duty here to defend this law as the Government has proposed and as the persons who will defend the law before Parliament have led you to ask myself and all of you why exactly the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is proposing this law at all. And since we stick to the rules, I'm going to refer you to the Department's Part-Circumstance Act, so try to explain to me why, let's just say, the Ministry of Administration, which is part of the motion of these regulations, is not the ministry that this Law has proposed. If necessary, we can also read the section of both the Ministry and the Ministry, and we will try to decide which one should be the legislator of this law. That's what I'm saying because I think, according to the matter that this law regulates, it was natural for the government, and then for Parliament, that law is made by the Ministry of Administration. But whatever it is, you came with a similar text of the law that you offered us in the first reading. And in that law that's short, there's only two important things. It is one way to return to work for those whose duty has ceased is now to enter into this law and you have done so with other regulations. And another to introduce a whole new category. There are now three types of presidents of the Republic under this Law in Croatia. The one who's on the job of the president, the one who's been on duty and is no longer on duty, is now the president at the end of his duties. And the third thing that my colleague Lesar said was only one person in the Republic of Croatia, and that is Mr Stipe Mesic. And I think this law is if you want to legally look at it, too, because it is the only person to whom some of the provisions of this law have been applied. He is the only person who, according to this law, can enjoy some for life if you want privileges that have been denied since the entry into force of this Law to others who have been on his duty. And we don't think it's correct for him or, of course, for all the other presidents who will one day become presidents at the end of the duties of the President of the Republic. The opinion of the HDZ Club is one, that this Law cannot introduce such differences among those who acted as president of the Republic. It is also the opinion of the HDZ Club that it should not work because of the hypocrisy of the cartoon by passing laws in which we will say that the President of the Republic will be a person who, under certain circumstances, will have a pension of 1200 kuna. You are also insulting the duties of the President of the Republic and probably the dignity of every duty, and we will argue that there is some dignity of these people who have been elected to the highest state office and that this dignity should not be reduced by proposing such regulations. We will advocate this, and even in Article 2, that this is precisely determined, that every President of the Republic, at the end of his duties, has a decent pension that is, of course, consistent with the economic possibilities of the country, but not that it is something that is below every level of human dignity. Because under these provisions he could have a significantly lower pension than those who retire under the general pension regulations. We therefore propose that, when there is already one official in the Republic of Croatia who retires differently from everyone else because he is the only one who is able to decide, upon termination of his duties, that he will not return to the former employer and that he will not benefit from other rights but will go into retirement, that that pension be an adequate duty he has performed while he was President of the Republic. It's the first objection to this law. And secondly, I'm going back to it and the HDZ Club will if we can't, of course, and for now we think we've never been able to convince you of our arguments that the solutions in the law are not good. We will also offer an amendment to delete Article 6 because if there is already a president today or tomorrow who has ceased to act as president and if the right to the office, to continue speaking to officials at his disposal, the vehicle and the costs are 5 years after the term of office, then that rule should apply to all those who find themselves in that situation. This, of course, means that the president has no right to two civil servants, but that his office is likely to hire up to two employees. But it's already a technique of pronunciation that can be fixed. We hold this law deeply to the insult and duty of the President of the Republic, and in no way does it create a system for which we should advocate it, which is a system in which every duty can be evaluated, starting with the duties of the President of the Republic, and that you should ensure that it has a decent way of working while it is working, but also at the end of office. And if it is a conclusion, and it can be compared to the practice of many European countries that it enjoys living time if you have decided that this time is five years as long as it was the duration of one term, then it would be logical to stop any use of those rights at the end of those five years, as provided for in Article 16. A colleague, Lesar, said that it concerns only one person, since we are passing regulations that should apply to everything equally, then it would be logical for you to propose in this law and, at the end of five years after the end of duty, to stop this possibility now enjoyed by the former President of the Republic. For these reasons, we will again appeal that you change this law, that you do not make any more differences with former high-ranking state officials. If we can't convince you in this way, we will offer our solutions but we believe that you have significantly violated the laws so far, as well as the constitutional categories of equality of all before the law, as well as the former President of the Republic. For these reasons HDZ will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29949	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29950	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Honored Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are a country that unfortunately doesn't have a great long-standing democratic tradition like some other countries have, so these issues have been resolved long ago and are no longer being disputed for decades and years. Unfortunately, we weren't so lucky that we had a democratic tradition for many years, a long decade, so that we solved it a long time ago, so we're dealing with it now. And what do we really want? We want to find a good measure that when the president ceases his term of office, he will not be like Pharaoh protected and placed but also not on the labour market. We want to find a good measure. We think what we've suggested is about that good measure. In this regard, it is not good for us to have in front of our eyes the current president of the former president or the one who was before him. So, neither Josipovic nor Mesic nor Tudjman. I have a feeling that now that those who are seeking to dictate some of the rights that the former president has now had that happened by any chance that the first president of the Republic of Croatia had experienced going into retirement so they wouldn't want to do it by chance, but rather to further strengthen his right to have had President Tudjman do so. I don't think it's good to look at people but to make something that will be a permanent solution no matter who the president is that has the same rights from any option any person came to that. Let's try to find a solution like that. So, what's the point of this law? That the president is engaged in whatever kind of work he wants, is elected and then allowed first to return to that job he has done before. That's what this law says. So, you were a citizen, you became president again, you're gonna be a citizen, and you have a chance to go back to doing what you've been doing so far. That makes this law possible. We don't see anything controversial about it. However, if the president doesn't want us to tell him well, the only "privileged" he has is that he can retire, early retirement, and that he doesn't have to be 61, 62 years old, or how long until the president who is then should retire as long as the law is prescribed. Yeah, he can if he's a couple of years less. And nothing else. It was in the recent past in Europe countries where the presidents, here... He came from a shipyard in Poland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When he completed his term, he didn't return to the shipyard. So... Okay, he was a union guy, but he was in a shipyard. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what am I saying? I think we agree that we should allow the president first that if he wants to really return to the profession and to the workplace where he has been, like all other officials, as well as any other official who is the subject of the next law but also if he does not want to go to early retirement. And nothing more and nothing less. Of course, he retires under the terms he has of retirement insurance. Mr. Mlakar has now, in the name of the HDZ club, caricated in some way, with a pension of 1200 kuna, the former president of a potentially 40-year-old, theoretically possible. But I don't know that he's in Europe, and we're in Europe, and in the same country, the president of the country is so young with 30, 35 years of choosing someone as president of the state. At least I don't remember it, and I don't even know it from literature. Because it's not common. I don't believe that even with us, at least not in the next 20, 30 years, someone at 30 will be elected president of the state. In theory, it's possible, of course, no one's contesting it. But if it hasn't happened anywhere, if it's not anywhere, then I guess it won't happen to us either. All right. Now, here is the question of retroactive action of the current former president. So should this law apply to him or not to touch his acquired rights? In the 1990s, when HDZ did a good part of this assembly, huge privileges were introduced for all who were here in the Parliament. So for some sitting here or months, he didn't have to say a word at all, he went to a very high-ranking, parliamentary retirement. We abolished it this year, so no more debt pensions, no more parliamentary pensions, so when whoever finishes his term in the Parliament goes back to his work and continues to work, no more, that's what we've introduced. In doing so, we have not retroactively abolished all these former parliamentary pensioners, the right to enjoy these parliamentary pensions because they were once acquired. None of the former parliamentary, former officials were abolished that debt pension that he earned 5, 10, or at any time of the year even though he was younger, although he may have been 50 years old, and 52, where he was in the Assembly for a few months or so. Now, they don't need to be abolished retroactively, and the president of the state needs to, why? Because I like these not, let's be principled. Therefore, I think that we have found or sought a good measure by this law, so all officials have the right to return to their former posts, as well as the president of the state, are equal with all other officials. So the only way to do that is to go in... I think it's a good measure, so just take a good look at it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No too many rights, but not enough rights, and I think that's okay. After the former president's term of office, regardless of the 1, 2 mandates the Constitution allows him to have the right of 5 years to be provided by the state's office, 2 driver's officers and a car. I don't think we're even arguing about it, so... Five years, so another term. So we're not about the president returning to the stock market when he's finished, we're letting him get back to work, to the same job. We're not even going to work if he doesn't want to, and there's an age he estimates he should, so he can retire, but he's not exactly 62 years old, he's going to retire early, and that's why he's going to have a much smaller pension than he's expected, that's his right of choice, and we're giving him that, and he's going to have an office in five years. I think we've set the right measure, what the president, the former, deserves, the president is an institution, so not on the stock market, but he can retire if he wants and have his own office. And I think it's a solution that could take a series of next terms, a series of decades, no matter who the president was, from which options he came from, and that I think we're going to deal with these issues this way, like many countries that are much more democratic than us and that have a much longer democratic tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29951	Thank you, too. The debate caused seven replicas. Dragutin Lesar first picked up. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29952	My dear colleague Jelusic, you said that we are a country without great legal tradition, a democratic tradition, is that right? First, do you know when the Law of Law, the rights of former presidents of the Republic, was adopted in the Croatian Parliament? 3 months before Stipe Mesic's first term ended, because until then Croatia had no such law. And that's when the last, last session before the election, Presidents of the Parliament passed such a law, by chance, but right then. Before Croatia, she had no such law. And it's good to legislate the rights of the former presidents of the Republic. No one has disputed the regulation of a special right, but certain provisions have been brought to the cartoons on the right of the pension amount, you don't understand, I understand that, but we can outwit it. Third, it's not the right of future, former presidents, it's the current former. And finally, the privileged pensions of the parliamentary deputies you mentioned, one of the few laws in Croatia since 1990, May, which was not adopted on the government's proposal, but on the proposal to sign 58, if I am not mistaken for a representative in the Croatian Parliament, among which I know 8 SDP MPs by heart, let's say the first name I remember is the current minister of social care who also proposed this Law on the introduction of privileged pensions for MPs, and later they became the rights of the Government and judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29953	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29954	Well, you actually confirmed what I said, you said, and you remember that the law was passed on the rights of the former president three months before his term expired. So I was saying the same thing, unfortunately we didn't fix it before because we didn't have democratic traditions, we didn't say it, why didn't we, then we passed such a law in '98, we could, who defended us, we didn't bring it, why? That's what you'd be able to talk about. But it was passed when it was passed, and that's why I say the law, we don't have democratic traditions, let's go pass a law that will drink water for the next few terms, for the next couple of presidents, and which we will reach more or less consensus on. And I think this law just got it done. And that's why I see we don't have a lot of thinking. We have a reflection on whether it's retroactive to apply to the existing president. I said it, but why didn't we apply it to all the other officials, MPs who retired in the '90s, 2000. Let's cut them out of all those constituency pensions, too. Therefore, it is estimated that the acquired rights are not touched. So if it's acquired right, then it doesn't have to be touched or touched. But let's arrange for the future. The laws are passed for the future, not the past. When you make the law, you arrange the future and the present. Not the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29955	Thank you, too. The next replica of Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29956	Dear colleague Jelusic, you have begun to deal with metaphysics rather than with the answer to specific things. You were wondering how the previous parliamentary majority would handle the rights and what privileges it would give to the late President Tudjman, and now you've been denied by a colleague, Lesar, because you heard from which president as you say the current former law exists at all. So I'm going to warn you that in the former constitutions that you've changed in 2000. For years there was also a county home of the Parliament in which every president of the state had become a lifelong member at the end of his term and thus was good and quality, certainly better quality than his status has been resolved today. So you don't have to wonder how this would work out before, because there was a solution in the Constitution. You've changed the Constitution, you've wiped out Parliament's county home, and then as a result, it was a problem and how you'll solve the former or whatever you say to the current former president of the Republic. And as for these enormous privileges on the basis of acquired rights which you have so generously abolished to the parliamentary deputies, I will remind you that it is our privilege and that 6 of us sits together in one working room, that for many MPs there is no adequate space of work where we should work, so it is a very big question of what great privileges are enjoyed by parliamentary representatives who you do not claim to have acquired rights among other things and pensions, and for the former current President of the Republic, you think that this right should be maintained. As far as retroactiveness is concerned, it is not a matter of return to law and the former current President of the Republic is still in place in that additional term of five years, therefore there is no retroactive application of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29957	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, pal Jelusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29958	I'm not gonna label your speech as mine, I'm gonna try to make arguments. Yes, the county home has been abolished and we still hold that it should have been done because Croatia is not a federal state. There is no need to be represented, none of its constituent units, Croatia as a state is unitary, therefore there is no reason for another home. The second home is usually introduced in countries that are more their own, which are federal, confederal, etc. But the only reason for this is because I should have left it in your argument that the former president, when his term of office ended, should have remained a member of the county home for life. If that's the only reason we need to stay, then we were really right to end it. As for the privilege of counsel, now you're saying that MPs don't even have their offices here. That's right, it's not good. But we're only years in power. So what have you been doing all these twenty years, why haven't you done it? Well, you'd better have done it, given the MPs the offices to work rather than privileged early parliamentary retirement. But the Parliament has served you to make people feel good about themselves, to be well placed than to work here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29959	Next replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Please, my time has begun to flow, so please have respect. A colleague Jelusic mentioned a democratic tradition. I do not agree, of course, Croatia has a very democratic tradition since the moment of independence, so from the moment of the introduction of the multi-party and democratic elections. Of course, it's all part of a democratic tradition. But what you're surprised at, then, and say there's nothing controversial about these amendments to the law. There's very simple I'll try to explain. So these amendments and additions to the law will be given to the former president of the Republic of Croatia and the former president of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm not talking about names. I'm talking about the second elected president of the Republic and I'm talking about the third elected president of the Republic. One will naturally have all the rights and privileges to be financed from the state budget, the other and the third elected will have only five years. And then it will happen, it may happen, I believe that this will indeed happen, that we will be able to discuss that this third elected president will end this five-year term in which he will enjoy the privileges of the former president of the Republic of Croatia and that the other elected president of the Republic of Croatia will continue to enjoy rights that are certainly much greater than the third elected former president of the Republic of Croatia. And finally an explanation in this law that for these rights of the president that are now being introduced, an additional five years will not be necessary to allocate additional funds from the state budget. It simply doesn't stand because we will finance the current former president of the Republic of Croatia and his rights but also the new former president in five years, but it is still a considerable amount of funding from the state budget and it is actually a matter of dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29961	Thank you. Before I give my colleague Jelusic a chance to respond to the replica. Namely, I owe my colleague to Mlakar one clarification to his opening presentation. Proposers are the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Labour. I'm sorry, I didn't say the opening, but you have the materials. You said in the discussion that he wasn't the Department of Administration's proposing? Reply to the replica of counterpart Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29962	Mr. Kosor says this will have consequences for the budget, that we will have two former presidents. If someone else said that, I wouldn't be surprised, as the person who has long experience in politics here in the Parliament says, but the former Prime Minister, then I really don't know what to say. Mrs. Kosor, we've brought a budget for 2013 that things are not given by God something doesn't happen we'll have another president in 2013. Therefore, we have one former president and another who is in power and does not expire in 2013 so please do not interrupt me. I'm asking you to calm down the HDZ gentlemen a little bit. So it has no impact on the budget by that you see from what I've said. As for more former presidents, we're not the only country with more ex-presidents. It is no wonder for us, therefore, if there are more ex-presidents, God has given them to live as long as possible, each man and especially the former president. And all future presidents will be passed by law from now on so that for the future there will be only 5 years so one term on... etc. And in perspective it will always happen that you have one in power for five years. If one of the two mandates is the president, then his second term will not be the former president who will have certain rights from now on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29963	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your understanding. A colleague Jelusic, in the light of the law when it comes to the necessary means, is then referred to as the means needed at the moment the law enters into force. And it has nothing to do with the financial year but the fiscal impact of the law, and the fiscal impact of the law is precisely known by certain provisions when it comes. Therefore, when this law comes into force by virtue of its provisions, additional appropriations will have to be provided in the budget because you will not be able to apply it. And that's the truth and the fact and it has nothing to do with 2013. But God forbid he enters 2013 into force then he would have to be secured in 2013. Therefore, the basic things in the budget law and that PFU form and some others should know. And I'd also like you at the SDP club when you don't know what you'll always remember about the late President Tudjman. Comparing the late President Tudjman and his merits in Croatia with all due respect to these others I think is deplaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29965	Thank you. We have an answer to the replica of counterpart Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29966	We've done the budget the way we think it will be and that it won't need to be rebalanced at least in this part, and that means we've provided funds for an ex-president and his expenses and we don't think it's going to have to change that. Budget for 2013 And when we get the budget for 2014 or 2015, then we'll put in what we think will be then. And we probably planned things as well as other things much better than you planned the minister while you were in government. As you planned on it, everyone already knows and the consequences we feel today. All that's happening to us today is the consequence of your "good planning."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29967	Thank you. You've done your job with your colleague Shucker, and you've done your job with the Rules of Procedure, so let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29968	Now any more statutes here that here... Article 214 of Col. Jelusic if you have no arguments don't insult, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29969	Tell me what he hurt. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29970	And about who he was when you even got in a position to be a minister, then we can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29971	My colleague Shuker, please, there's no need to use the Rules of Procedure Institute because she was gone. You're correcting your opinion and you're taking your colleagues' opinion with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think we need that in this House. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Jelusic, I'm going to protect you for a little while. It is not your fault that you do not understand this fiscal policy; otherwise, in Holding, in Zagreb we were led by this, right? That's how it was. Now, I just wanted to tell you one note, listen to me, colleague Jelusic. You said by reading this law, you mentioned the next law we have on government officials and you said we're all the same. We're not all the same, we're not all the same. You need to read a fellow law and know what state officials are dealing with in the next law, which is what you're talking about. We're not all the same, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29973	Thank you. We have an answer to the replica of counterpart Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29974	For what I understand, I won't answer, I'll only do it one more time. We've made a budget at least as far as this part of the cost of the former president is concerned, rather than as we think it will be and will probably not change it almost for certain, and I'm sure of it. If that happens, I'll apologize that we didn't plan well. And otherwise in this House we're not all the same normally that we're not all the same, we're different and it's good that we're different and it's good that we think differently. The problem is that what we think often doesn't suit you, but we're not here to think how you fit, but we're here to think that we think it's good and how the citizens think it's good and they confirmed it in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29975	Thank you. Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go. Excuse me, Comrade Tudjman. ... Here's the time to return, I'm just asking you don't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure by lifting up a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When it is spoken if it is to be argued then it should go with arguments, not with such a thesis that the proposing or ruling coalition has found the right measure, and then it is argued that there is no example in Europe that someone 35 years old has become, but then it has to be consistent and there is no example that someone has returned to work after his term. So you listed... so he came back, or he didn't go back to the shipyard. So be consistent here. When it comes to the fact that we are all the same as our colleague wanted to say, there is nothing in the law to this which follows that MPs can return to their previous workplace because it was left out in this law. Since you've already drawn this brilliant thought that we're not a federal state, so we don't have a two-home council, I'd like to say that maybe Mr. Craig can explain it, but I doubt he'll get into it, but a democratic tradition about resolving the President's issue has been taken over, let's say Italy has become a lifelong senator in Italy, which is in the tradition of democratic countries. And what you still have as a problem, which even this law doesn't solve, what if the president resigns for this or that reason after a year, two, three mandates, are then the same oscillations. Or to raise one other question that in the American case the American presidents have that they have the right to their archives, to their reading room, or library that then goes with them, and in our case we've seen the illegalities happening to the archives, so this law should be perfected because there's simply no sign of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29977	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29978	Comrade Tudjman, the law on which we will have the next one here at the debate is exactly what he is talking about, about the rights and duties of officials and parliamentary representatives. One of these is that the legal possibility is confirmed to return to their place of origin, to return to the place they performed. That's the problem of the next law we'll discuss. ... So, we're starting to... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are therefore starting from the fact that political interest is not a lasting interest in life and commitment, and neither is the president of the state. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But respecting that the president of the state is an institution, it should not in any way be put in a position that he has no choice but to return to that place, so let him be free of his will. If a man is doing a certain heightened occupation that he finds interesting to do after his presidential duty, why not let him do so. But if he doesn't want to make it possible for him to go to early retirement. I think it's the highness of the president's office that deserves it, and I don't see any problems about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29979	Thank you. And the last replica... I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, if you're already commenting, then let's be quiet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Zlatko Tušak, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29980	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Jelusic, you were contradictory in your discussion. You told me this law provided neither too much nor too little rights, and in further discussion you would say that there is a theoretical possibility that the president of the state has a pension of 1200 kuna. Now I don't know what the middle of it is, is it small rights or great rights? In further discussion, I wish former President Mesic a long life, I wish him good health, he is over 78 years old and can theoretically live in his life and 20 and 30 years. I don't know if he's going to need an office, two people to work with him, and if he's going to need all the privileges that were given him in this law, and then I don't know if there's too little or too much rights in that part. I don't think your discussion in the defense section has any basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29981	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29982	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have to admit that this debate today and the debate in the first reading began with the beginning of the conduct of your mandate when we immediately put on the agenda of pensions of privileged, pensions of parliamentary deputies, and then we brought to a good point of shame many fellow MPs who, from the creation of the Croatian state and independence, believe in honor and fair conduct of our duties in the Croatian Parliament. Sometimes even good intentions may have poor connotations, so we are with a number of more important problems in Croatia than the growing number of unemployed people who work are getting paid, and we have come to a question that I believe the public at this point is not very interested in, but we have also made our contribution to making the work that we do ourselves unfair because, speaking about ourselves, we have led to the fact that the Croatian Parliament and representatives are somewhere when you show up are being dishonest to be represented because everyone thinks that what we do to Croatia is not necessary, that what is the duty of politicians at any level falls all in the water because nothing is wrong with Croatia. So I think that before I look back on this topic on behalf of the club, we have contributed ourselves to our status and our work and what we should be doing in public, it is wrong to look at this job of the parliamentary representative and politicians as the most hated duty in Croatia. It is unfortunately the contribution of this 7th Assembly. As regards the proposed law and the rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia after the end of the term of office, we at the HDSSB club have thus started this mandate to cut bankruptcy rights and privileges for politicians at any level and thus here in the Croatian Parliament and then on. We support, therefore, this proposal to limit the rights to the president after the term of office has expired because that is the trend that we have begun in the beginning of the call of this Parliament. The bankruptcy law is a privilege. By abolishing the privileges of all officials, state officials, high officials should therefore be abolished and the privileges of the President of the Republic of Croatia. There is no need to make any difference, and we see that the president himself has agreed in his public statements and comments on this bill. What is not good is not to mention the names, not even the former president, the current president, the future president. It is important that the right is acquired which can also be changed because it is only one person or only another person who will become the former president. And we agree with the need to abolish this acquired right and the one president who stayed so that this existing president would not find himself in a discriminatory position. The president is an institution, but a politician is a natural person who behaves here. So in order to comply with all the rules and laws that we want to implement ourselves, we believe that this would be fair and would be in the spirit of democracy of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Before I came here for a pay phone, a colleague from the Labour Club said, and where the president will return who, if an unemployed person is elected, should return if he is found unemployed on election day. So there are a number of issues, doubt and theoretical possibilities, and what is most important is that the legislator's intention is, after what we have launched, to favour all politicians, and in this case the President of the Republic of Croatia is abolished. They are limited to five years to be able to exercise their rights, and now formally and legally whether the President of the Republic of Croatia will return to his place of work, whether he was in the state, public or private sector, it is likely less possible in view of the experience and practice that has proved not only in Croatia but also in European countries. Whether this right will be used by the current president or not, we won't know it. But in any case, we cannot support a bill that, in its own finality, gives one right to someone, and another limits someone's right. I don't think that since we've come to this debate, we at the HDSB Club will support this bill because it doesn't apply equally to any president who acts on his duty. But we also believe that this law that will come after this also raises a question about the discriminatory position of a person, so already when we propose laws, we need to make sure that they are equal for everyone. According to this bill, we believe that this is not the case, and in this kind of reading we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29983	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club, Jozo Radosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29984	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Ministry. Here is the final act of one process of removing all possible and impossible benefits or privileges of political officials for the account of the public, and that throughout that time, all these 10 years, all of these hundreds and thousands of pages, the question of whether any law, some change has positively affected the behaviour of public duties and the advocacy and protection of public interests has not been found on the agenda for one hour. So did we therefore make this demonstration so that our officials behave better in their duties and, of course, protect and build public interest this topic has never been found in the focus of the public or in the focus, especially in the focus of the media. And it is very difficult to answer whether, after this decommissioning of the strip, these all possible and impossible necessary and unnecessary benefits, whether our political life is better and whether this institution and other institutions that make it more able to protect and defend and ensure public interest. I have an opinion about it, but I'm not taking it out here. But the fact remains that the most important question, the measure of all these years has actually remained on the sidelines and let it be said here. And this is the final act, and in this debate, it actually shows all the defects of our relationship to this issue. And of course I speak for the club, so I will certainly support this bill on behalf of the club. But I would take advantage of this opportunity and make some of my personal views on that trail, hence the total elimination of all possible and impossible benefits. So if we went like that, then we should actually go really all the way. What makes sense to the President of the Republic who has received 48 salaries yet to pay 2 wages while looking for a job. So let's cut him off, and let's cut him off, and let's give him two wages. What's that for? What is the point of providing the President of the Republic with the right to a pension which, given his salary which is high for those five years and relatively average salary before it can be an average pension or slightly more than an average pension and leave the President of the Republic to live with such pension. What does that make sense? Well, then let's get rid of him and get it right. Let us fully level it with officials, and let us abolish their right to return to their jobs, and let us bring the matter to an end and forget this story when we have forgotten the basic story of whether our political life and the ability of elected officials to act in the interests of the citizens of this country is better, higher or not. When we've forgotten that fundamental theme, then let's do both the final act and the final act, let's nail that nail and finish that story once. By the way, I personally believe that when we have already demonstrated that we, for the President of the Republic, are the only official in this country who has been elected to direct elections from all its citizens, there is no longer any need to preserve this material dignity in order to preserve, as in this isolated case, the dignity in general that it symbolizes the value of the choice of both MPs and all others, because today in Croatia the rule that elections are the highest value but elected officials are not worthy of any task given to them or respected. This is the situation in Croatia today. I choose you, I declare you a bastard, and I expect you to solve all my problems. And we created such a situation and of course the citizens see it that way because we gave them a reason for it. And when the highness of the election and the mandate of the sanctity of that mandate was passed down to that extent, then, in fact, according to my personal position, it had to be trampled out and left the exact same conditions for officials and the President of the Republic, and that means that after the conduct of the duties, they had absolutely nothing because what they now have is nothing or almost nothing. And we're supposed to be all the way and of course we're not going to obviously take that step, we're going to stay here for some pretty lame half solution, but what's there? So these were my personal views, which I have afforded myself on this occasion of this chamber assembly here but the club of representatives of the HNS will support this law which is actually not worthy of the time we have spent on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29985	Thank you, too. We've registered three replicas. Dragutin Lesar first picked up. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29986	I agree with you that this is a pale and half solution, but it was proposed by the Government. We have the ability to accept it or refuse it, or try to fix the amendments. And you as a representative club also have the opportunity to submit amendments and this pale and half solution fix. It's not too late, here's a few more minutes of debate, so amendments can be submitted. Secondly, you said one inaccuracy to eliminate all possible benefits. It's not like that. If you mean pensions under special regulations that are '95. Based on the collected signatures of MPs, not the Government or the Club of Representatives in Croatia, introduced when it was discussed in the Assembly on the proposal of your Government, I illustrated it with examples from democratic, orderly and long-term democracies that such standards existed and exist, but there are no three types of individual and right and conditions of the right to pension and height of that pension. And after an extremely great privilege, then this government came with a suggestion that there was nothing. And now we're going back to the '95 Labour Act. straight back to work. And I end up, if in this law we regulate the rights of former presidents of the Republic of Croatia for everything in the same way, it's the only requirement. And I am convinced that as an observer in the European Parliament you will agree with me that this is a principle, this approach is always the most just.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29987	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29988	Well, I wasn't talking about or talking about principled things, so I wasn't talking about this problem or the issue of acquired law. Here in the Croatian Parliament, the full right to acquired rights is spoken of as sacred. It's just, of course, not worth it when you're entitled not to be held accountable for these or those reasons, personal, ideological. Otherwise it's a principle and it's sacred. Well, that principle can't be applied to one another, not applied to another, and there shouldn't really be anything about it. The very fact that the right is acquired should, by some legal considerations and respect for the principle, mean that this right is further ensured. As for solutions in other countries, there are very diverse solutions. We're on the most radical lead right now. There are solutions in very developed democracies that go to some kind of insurance protection. Why? In order to ensure the independence, certainty and security of the existence that should then be based on the conduct of the duty, not to interpret it as some special privilege. After the pension has been abolished, we know that we have difficulty with parking, we need to accept the view that both salaries and then the political parties have been abolished, and there have been such great proposals and those assets of democracy for which several hundred million people have died over the past 200 years should be abolished in the name of democracy. Well, let's go and do it, so I guess we'll get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29989	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29990	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Rados you asked yourself in your discussion what purpose does all this make? It's perfectly legitimate and well-explained, and what's the point of this? I don't see him except in some cheap populist that's going to make a difference in the amount of $14,000 compared to the former president and the current one who's going to retire. This one we have 22,000 kuna, the current president when he retires will be able to have a maximum of 8 or 9,000 kuna. That's the only difference, and everything else is absurd. It's absurd that we in opposition don't support this, that you in power support this, that's absurd. It is absurd that fellow Caine, who was in the presidential campaign when he retired, will have a higher pension than the elected president who won the campaign, and that is absurd. And we don't know if he's going or not, but it's absurd. And then we listen to all kinds of explanations and all the time we're wondering where this is going. We've been institutionally degrade ourselves for years, all the values that have been emerging over time, and all because the creation of the state begins every time every new power comes. And then we all know something new and forget about some values that are fundamental, those set right from the beginning. And these are the only facts, and all of these other things, so this is the only point, I see here in the fact that it's a cheap populist where the SDP is doing it now and all the time, let's just say that they impose that populism on one other opposition party, so good Labourists. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29991	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Radosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29992	I don't know my colleague, Boric, if there's any expensive pulsism, it seems to me that all pulsisms are cheap pulsisms. But I agree with you that this is absurd, this is absurd, of course it's absurd. You have the fact that the director of a public firm in a city that did not become the foundation of its merits, but by a political appointment, which ruined the company because no one controlled it, and it gets 12 severances, and I don't know what else the benefits of a contract signed and approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the president of the Republic of Croatia who has been elected by the will of all citizens and who represented the country for 5 years, so he has the highest legitimacy of what he gets is less than what some third-rate manager in some public company with no 50 employees. Isn't that absurd? Of course it's absurd, but that's why I said it would be good if we were already in that absurd, that we brought him to an end so we wouldn't face him anymore. Let's go to the absurd and stop burdening ourselves with it. And I'm afraid we haven't done it again, because we're going to find again a reason to put the subject back and, instead of looking at the right questions, we're dealing with these questions and problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29993	Thank you. And the last replica of Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned that in such discussions, i.e. these debates by the opposition, you were destroying the integrity of the president's institution with quite a dose of irony and you were discussing the abolition of all possible rights. You mentioned many dead through history who fought for some democratic principles. Then you mentioned the suspension of transport, parking places, but you should mention the abolition of transportation, the abolition of Christmases and all those others, these were also acquired rights. And as for the collapse of the president's institution, this proposal is the most devastating of all, it's tearing it down because it creates two categories. And instead of fighting for the Constitution to at least those categories that are comparable, to be equal, to be the same. You're setting up some kind of weird thesis, let's go with a bunch of irony, now let's cut it all out. Well, no one asked a question. You're saying we're getting tired of irrelevant things, it's not a matter of the government's bill of law. But it's irrelevant that today 370,000 people are out of work, that they have no rights, that they don't even have the Constitutional right to work. Now that's pulsism, exactly my colleague and I ask you nicely next time, you see it wasn't hard to say that word Labourist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29995	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of my colleague, Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29996	What did I say to the Labourists? So the Labourist is a word like any other, I don't mind the Labourist either. Well, Croatia is, Labourists are a political party that has its own views that I generally disagree with, but counterpart Novak that we were more concerned with those issues that we should deal with, that cheap populistism on this subject and on a number of other topics did not so rule Croatian political life, from media space, which is partly understandable to political elites, which is less understandable. Then perhaps they would be more concerned with the real issues so that the number of unemployed would not be 370,000 but would be smaller and there would be no withdrawal of the Christmas goddess than the political officials who were given the task of managing this country would either be committed to their energy or would be committed to the task of providing citizens with an improvement, and then perhaps that would not have happened. Both this Christmas card and that 370,000 unemployed people in Croatia are partly victims of cheap pulsism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29997	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Deputy Minister and the Honorable Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support this bill. I think he found a good measure between all those benefits that were recognised in the world to all the former presidents but also found some economic situations. I'm not even surprised at the opposition thinking, and I don't even think it's political, but to come from their experience, from what they had as their proposals that came for the highest state positions. The truth was such a time and they were older people, so many were in law, so I'm kind of used to the president having to come out of prison and then either die or go to jail as a former head of government. We haven't learned but you'll learn gentlemen that the president of the state can come from college and go to college. There's a normal situation coming and it's going to be so soon, soon. There will come young presidents, longer and alive, and that is something that needs to be understood normally. The question is we're all more or less no one was immune from talking about any topic especially when we're in opposition about any subject and on our own when it comes to ourselves. Well, our citizens don't live well like that. That we're all working for free here, that the president of the state is also doing volunteer work, so he's not paid for it, so to get by, that's not at all a question right now and that it's not working for the good of people. The question of what benefit would citizens benefit from it? Citizens have nothing to do with politicians being well paid but working in their interest and that's something this government is trying to do. And I think it's everyone's responsibility that good things of course and constructive criticism go only in favour of the quality of the solution. What I'm saying is that we love the state and we don't love its institutions, it also comes from experience, from the negative experience that citizens have over all these years, that they've been expecting, and therefore there's a state and its institutions not only to pay taxes, but to protect them in all the difficult situations in which a person falls into. I will again mention that glorious sentence about how Rome is and how proud it is to be a citizen of Rome, and when the hordes piled up on Rome they were saying, the Roman spoke and it was not easy to send a Roman citizen, I am concerned about the Roman citizen. My country will protect me. However, our citizen has a negative experience, unfortunately, more than positive experiences, that he was harmed by institutions instead of those same institutions not only of the repressive apparatus but of those who were invited to protect him. That is why it is up to all of us to have policy life as a general good and to have the institution stabilised and up and not down and justifiable criticism also going in that direction. There were also words here, of course, that in order to demean and humiliate this bill, one speaker said that this bill had come out of the government's workshop. When I think about it, the workshop isn't a bad thing, even though that speaker wanted to insult the government because there's always something good coming out of the workshop. I wish we hadn't destroyed the workshops and the industry. That's what's coming to us right now. That we're up to it. However, I would already point to the speaker that at that time a particular government office, the central administration office even before the Ministry of Administration was the place of alchemical laboratories where the electoral defeats turned into electoral victories. However, these times have passed forever, I hope, no matter what the personnel combination or combination of government or certain coalition solutions will be. So this is one solution given by certain rights, privileges, I am not afraid of that expression or benefits to the former presidents and all the presidents so far, given the time in which they acted, they have made a great contribution to Croatia and every country that holds on to itself, if we hold on to ourselves and to the institution of the president. Do we think we're going to humiliate the former president or the current one? You're not going to raise yourself up, gentlemen, especially because you're politicians. It's allowed to be an ordinary citizen but not a politician because then he's hypocritical. Here's an example not only of America, but many other countries our size after our economic opportunities and difficulties, unfortunately many countries in Europe and their citizens have a hard time living, so their former presidents have the right most of them have the right to an office, have the right to severance, have the right to travel expenses, have the right to protection, their widow has the right to retire, have the right to medical costs they, their wives, or their spouses and underage children if they have such. They also have the right to a state funeral. Therefore, these small rights that are here are not only a matter of the protection and integrity of such persons but of us as citizens and respect for our own country for which we are, we are so proud of the state and we are destroying its institutions. The institutions need to be raised up, they should be criticised when I repeat them badly in this way, but this is the way to approach it, so the question here is about an article, I don't think it's worth the effort to do ourselves any harm to such debates. Here I am voting and supporting this bill but I think that this bill is a good solution to say in relation to respect... in relation to our economic opportunities, or difficulties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u29999	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30000	Thank you very much. My colleague Anticevic, you asked yourself in his debate about the benefits of citizens from politicians. And then you answered, it would be useful if they worked in favor of them. That's one question that could really be discussed more widely. However, the fact is that citizens will have absolutely no use for this law, absolutely no use at all. The damage will be won by the current president because he will have a pension of 14 thousand kuna less than the current, former president. It's a shame to him. And citizens always pay everything as they have so far. They have to pay every bill, they have to pay their taxes, they have to pay all the taxes, and that's their only job at all. And we, instead of talking through some debates, may be talking about increasing the powers of the president who himself has asked as a single question that may need to be opened because he feels that he can't influence some of the activities that he sees around him, especially the executive authority, and he rightly wondered whether I could get some other powers as such because I consider myself perhaps useless in this function. And then you finally punish him and cut his pension that I think he should have had the same as all the presidents so far. And no one would be angry at that, no one would say anything wrong about it, and probably not mind. No matter which side he came from or what mandate he did. But I'm saying it's your right to abolish the president you pulled out of your ranks. Everything you think needs to be lifted, so we'll see. Maybe let the new government get it all back to another beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30001	Thank you. This is what we've ended the debate. He would also welcome Minister Miranda Mrsic. Do you want the Ministers to conclude? I hope so, because the text of the bill is short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30002	Thank you very much. So the debate was expected and what we expected would break the spear, but we still believe that some acquired rights that were acquired before some laws do not need to be derivated by this law. And on the other hand, this law regulates things in the future and sets some principles that are... European standards that no longer happen to us what happened to us in recent years. Thank you very much for the debate, and I hope that we will pass the law on Friday so that this chapter, which we opened in the first days of convening this House, with parliamentary pensions that this chapter of preferential pensions will also be closed in this way, and as far as the President of the Republic is concerned, after the term of office and his pension has ceased, his pension will be in line with the possibilities of the state, with the possibilities of the budget and with what has been granted throughout his life. Because don't forget that the future presidents of the Republic will have a pension from two segments, and probably from three, which is from the first pension column of the second pension pillar and the third if they start saving in the third pension column when they are employed because probably their first job will not be the president of the Republic but will be something else. Thus, when we look at it and look at it, it is fair to all those who at this time are singled out in the first and second pillars.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30003	I thank the ministers. My friend I will fight you, Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30004	Here's what I'd like to ask the minister do you really think this pension is in line with the state's capabilities? Eight thousand kuna? And in fact, what kind of state is that if it's possible to provide the president of the country with such a small pension? Well, we didn't have 700 presidents or 15 grand like that. Well, we only have three presidents so far. Well, I don't think that's the kind of explanation I just can't believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30005	Thank you. Minister, here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30006	I'm sorry to have to point out that you're looking at the law. So neither our pensions nor your pension and my pension are paid out of the Mirovnica Institute on the basis of the payments, so what you and I are paying for during our working life, which I hope you too are paying in a second pension column where when we retire, you and I will have that pension. It is therefore the state's strength to ensure that the pensions paid from the first and second pension pillars are appropriate and that the pensions of the President of the Republic are also appropriate. So it's part of that pension system we're building in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30007	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30008	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, second reading, P.Z. No. 146. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like a representative of the government, dear Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30009	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. The government does not accept the amendment for a reason because it is about the president's rights acquired and is proposed to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30010	I'd like a representative of the proposer, the HDZ Club. Here you go, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30011	Dear Mr. President, the meaning of the amendment submitted by the Croatian Democratic Community club to this Act is that it cannot be regulated differently by the rights of the President of the Republic once it ceases to act on its duty. The point of your law is that we now have three kinds of presidents in the Republic of Croatia. One who is active in mandates, one who will be the former president after his term of office has ceased and one who is already the former president of the Republic and all his rights and privileges will be realized for the rest of his life. And the president who is currently in office when he ceases to be an active president, that right will only enjoy five years or the duration of one presidential term. Here you might wonder what some big politicians asked European where the interest in the state ends, and the love of privileges begins. Unfortunately, the government did not ask that question, and it passed a law that first made the difference between two people who acted in the same capacity. At the same time, this law actually degraded the role of the President of the Republic by reducing his material rights to retirement after the end of his duties and finally protected the former President of the Republic to enjoy the rights which he has under the law so far for the rest of his life, and the one who will be in that position will only be 5 years old. That's what made the difference between the two to say so to the so-called former president that we first think is not allowed and that it's not constitutionally directed to do this, or we think it's not even in accordance with constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30012	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30013	Excuse me, just one more second. And given that, in fact, it was declassified after everything this government has done in this term that it is now calling for the theory of rights acquired in this case, and you have not applied this same theory when you have passed any other regulations. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30014	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who is for the final bill. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia following the termination of its duties in the text, as proposed by the Proposer without the amendment accepted. Okay, thank you very much for your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30015	We move on to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, Second Reading, PZ No. 117 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. in the case of legislation, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the draft minister, please, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30016	Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, so there are two differences between the first reading and the final draft of the law. So one is that we better define the time when a state official should get back to work from where he came from, so that place of work at an indefinite time where he was. So that's the part of the institute we're coordinating. We also coordinate with that institute 6+6, so 6 months of full salary, 6 months of half salary, and thus we believe that this part of the job has been resolved indefinitely for a period of time. Naturally, when we talk about the state as an employer or an employer from the so-called. the real sector that we had to separate these two things so that in those cases where the employer state is returning to the workplace without a public tender, it must be offered the same job or a similar job. As regards the arrival of a government duty from the real sector, it is necessary to sign an agreement between the employer and that of a state official in which mutual rights and obligations are regulated when returning to the workplace after the term of office. We also, given that in this law there are coefficients related to state officials, this has caused a lot of media attention, so we wanted to coordinate the coefficients for individual directors of the office with those coefficients in line with what is really the situation and the real work of those directors. And when we looked at the coefficient then we realized that some government officials who really were government officials weren't there, so they were in a certain way hidden. So let's say the Director of REGOS means the Central Insurance Register, which is an extremely important body that will now become the hub point of pension insurance with Europe, was not in state officials. One of the reasons why the Director of REGOS had a coefficient of 5.27 to someone's mercy. But it's not just in that case, but when we look at the various agencies that were founded in the state we saw that, say, the Director of the Judicial Academy has a coefficient of 5.12, gross salary of 25000 kuna, that the Director of the Coastal and Line Transport Agency has 5.64, 28000 kuna, that the Director of the Railway Safety Agency has 5.27 it, etc., so many agencies, on both sides, are so many different coefficients that have not been controlled by anyone and have been allocated in a very strange way. Among other things, when we started to deal with the situation in the agencies, we saw that at the same jobs that are jobs in both the state administration and public services, let's say the SSS has a coefficient of 1.60, 1.70, if I may remind you of the coefficient for the SSS is a maximum of 1.10. We realized that in this state of affairs we should make it clear that those who need to, who work with almost half of the budget who have a great responsibility to do so in a way and to be honored and because of their role in redefining systems, reforms and responsibilities in which it is, and that those directors who do not, need to reduce the coefficients. And on the other hand, by some laws, we introduced assistant directors, and if the directors had already been state officials, we thought it was okay to put them as state officials. Just to point out that the directors that are now being discussed and are likely to be discussed are directors who are selected by a public tender so that transparency is also ensured. By changing the coefficients in the agencies we saved at an annual level of over 20 million kuna, and by these changes that are now ahead of you we saved about half a million kunas for the reason that there are only three in HZZO instead of seven assistants, which we are some assistant directors who have so far been 12 down to five. For all these reasons, this measure, which has been clearly welcomed by a very media-sensitive and has been exposed in the extreme case, has brought savings itself into the state budget. And when we talk about the pay mass with these changes, the pay mass remains the same, or less, given the savings we're going to make. Let me just say that when we tell HZMO that in 2012, we achieved savings on material costs at more than 60 million kunas, without touching material costs. From all of these changes that we are making, which are sometimes not well received, are changes that we have to make in order to put transparency and hierarchy throughout the system, as well as in the HZMO where we have increased the coefficient will also result in increases in the SSS coefficients, and the reason is that savings are foreseen in the number of leading places. Among other things, out of 168 different HZMO executives, they will be around 80, 90, so almost half less, and that the work process itself will be the same, and that creates the possibility that we can then raise the coefficients and wages for those who actually work and who carry HZMO, which are employees. So the changes ahead of us are the changes that have to happen because the simple system has to be cheaped and that the product that should be, which is satisfied with the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, is to cost us as little as possible, so the material costs and wages should be reduced to a reasonable measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30017	Thank you, Minister. Three replicas have been reported. Miss Sumrak, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. Here in my replica, I'd like to ask you some questions. I'm curious when you were talking about this law that's now in front of us that you've solved this law to state officials and back to work, and you've solved situations when they work in the real sector, when they work in the private sector. I wonder if this law applies to our MPs, the MPs all together, and are we the same state officials?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30019	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30020	So the difference between parliamentary deputies and state officials is that state officials are appointed, parliamentary deputies are elected. It's two special laws. If you ask about the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Parliamentarians, he has been withdrawn for further work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30021	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's a very interesting one mantra you've been beating up for months. He is not managed by the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office with half the budget. In fact, he doesn't even run the 36 billion. These are solutions that are based on positive legal rules. And 97, 98 percent of those solutions with those harmonises that go from year to year are completely identical. Since there's a payment over the treasurer on your salary, there should be people in the IRS who have five times as much money. So, responsibility definitely exists. But don't be angry, I don't think you're an economist and that some things but you're talking about some things that just don't stand. This man has a responsibility for the functioning of an institution. He doesn't have nearly as far as this payment is concerned, etc. It's almost nothing to do with that. It's a technical job. You, when you apply for retirement, do it some kind of reference in some kind of exposure, it doesn't matter which one. This solution is entered into the system and its pension is paid. The director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has nothing to do with it. But that he is responsible for the functioning of the system of the institution is what it stands for. But it's very interesting when you're chasing a little pear, a little apple that's on the budget, and it's not on the budget. You're also talking about the directors of the agencies. Well, you can't say that, say, the director of the Competition Protection Agency or the Handa that's been like this so far, you can compare it to some agency that you started, which practically didn't do anything. And it's not good to say that you pay someone for this, and on the other hand, look at your colleagues and colleagues in which they rank by those coefficients as parliamentary representatives. I don't want to say at all that we have small salaries, but I'm just telling you how many of these allegedly responsible people in this country are out of parliamentary representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30023	Thank you. Minister Mrsic's reply. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30024	So when I talk about responsibility, it's not just about managing half the budget. The responsibility is also self-government with 3800 people, without the management of the system happening during your government, which is the Rubal affair. And on the other hand, you have 150,000 pensioners who are receiving a pension without an OIB. You probably know that or you don't know that. So it's something that the principal has to do with it. ... I've been listening to you. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] [[Invader Batinić: Please colleague Shuker.]] I listened neatly. [[/Intruder Batinić: A colleague of Shuker please you have not received a word. Here you go, Minister.]] So these are things, they're facts. And when we talk about agencies, then the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development was a coefficient of 5.27,26,000 kuna that director had. So tell me, is that the same thing and is that okay with the Director of the Pension Insurance Office? I said gross. ... [[/Intruder Shucker: Gross or net?]] [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30025	Comrade Shucker, please. I take your word. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Well, there's no words, but don't talk anymore, please. Minister, go ahead. Are you done? Thank you. I'm asking you nicely, colleagues, don't speak without a word. I don't think there's any need. The next replica of counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30026	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in your presentation, you said you saved through a new classification of 20 million kuna on the number of state officials, etc. Now, you say you saved it. And I'm asking, and where did all those directors who were in the state administration system end up coming from that state administration to the principal post on the basis of the competition? The rest of you are in the system. You don't count them in salaries, and they all have salaries somewhere between seven and 8,000 kunas because they're sector leaders. They're the biggest operatives in the world, most of them, whatever you say. I know the system because I've been working. Secondly, you didn't say what it cost those who entered the cabinets of the 20 ministries under the law without a public tender. How many people are we talking about, and I'm guessing 20 ministries are just four or five of them. That's 100 people and a million kunas a month. 12 months, 12 million kuna, 4 years almost 50 million kuna on an average salary of 5000 kuna. How can we talk about saving when all the items of the budget across all the ministries on the masses increase the amounts from year to year? That's not true. It's true. Write, look at the budget. And that's why the finance minister says we're going now to account for salaries all in one place, so he finds out who's moving around the ministry. That's the only truth. There's no saving. It's being spent more. This is a more expensive system with a co-opted management staff, which is why we also have problems in negotiations which, not in negotiations but in fulfilling the EU's tasks but also in operational programmes. It's the only fact. And you can say you saved it, but that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30027	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30028	You've broken your pots a little bit. When I was talking about agencies, the agencies had nothing to do with the directors of the administration. When we talk about state officials' savings, you've had over 150 directors of various administrations. So, with the aide coming in, he reduced that number. The savings are about 2, or 4 million a month. And when we talk about increasing the mass of wages, that's because you have 0.5 per year of work. Every year, it's only in the state service that their salary mass increases by about 200 million without you hiring or firing anyone. Therefore, the mass of wages must rise but must grow in a way that is controlled and what we are doing now. So, the basic collective contract for civil servants and tenants is signed, signed for both public services and everything that you signed in your day collective agreements to write inside rights that cannot be realised. Some even had to resign because they refused to sign what they could not achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30029	Thank you. We're crossing... You have violated the terms of Rule 216 of your Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I give you a warning. ... So, you heard. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Consult the Rules of Procedure. Please don't put my patience to the test. ... Comrade Shucker, I give you a second warning, I take away your word for this item of the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30030	Dear colleagues and colleagues invited by the previous ministerial act on the second pillar of pension insurance for the start of the debate, only one piece of information. At this point, the situation is such that a person who pays a second pillar for 25 years and has a gross salary of 28 thousand kuna will have a pension of 3300 kuna. ... I'll wait for the SDP meeting to end and then I'll continue. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30031	You can speak freely to your colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30032	Mr. President, I have the right to my 15 minutes. Whether I keep my mouth shut or say it's my right. I'm waiting for the session to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30033	And that means good, so you don't have a long report, or exposure. All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30034	Shorter than your taking away words. So this is about, otherwise it's called inappropriate behaviour in Parliament, but it's not sanctioned on this side. I am personally completely relieved of all these provisions of this law because none of it can be used because I am about as much in position as my colleague Jelusic if I had to go back from where I came from he would have to go to Bandic and I to Međimurje County which is inconclusive. Therefore, this law introduces new categories of state officials, so other than the Director of the Peace Ministry and the Deputy and his assistant become state officials. So Director of the Central Insurance Register, Director and Deputy Director of the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of Programmes and Projects of the EU and President of the National Minority Council. So far, they have not had the status of state officials, and the proposal is that they now have the status of state officials. I'm not going to do anything about the coefficients because the minister said they saved so much money that they had extra money for it. Article 3(3) of amendments and additions, Articles 15d and 15e again create two categories of appointed officials. However, there is indeed a confusion because Article 1 of this Law makes it clear that this law applies to MPs as well and does not change these amendments. Therefore, Article 1 lists who is all the state official and among them are parliamentary representatives. But this law now regulates the right to return to work towards the former employer for appointed state officials, not elected, appointed. Therefore, Article 3 of the amendment, and with the new Articles 15d and 15th, applies only to appointed state officials. And he predicts that those appointed by the civil service, so the state administration and the public service, have the right to return without a contract, so by force of the law is the body of the state administration, the public authorities must take back after the term of office. For appointed public officials who have come from the private sector from the private employer, this right of return depends on a small matter that passes through to no one, which is a contract. The contract between the officials and the former employer will determine the conditions for the exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. A paragraph 1 of this Article refers to the right to return. The labour law when it regulated this right to return and elected and appointed officials, but not only to the state but also to the local one was clear. The so-called job protection and return rights were limited to 5 years. There's no limit here. So, who are appointed from the state service simply have to apply within 15 days and say I'm coming back. The Head of State shall make a decision on the schedule and the point within 45 days. However, if it is appointed from the private sector, then the key word is the contract. What if there's no contract? A private employer does not want to sign a contract when he leaves because the law does not say he has to sign it, there is no legal obligation for a private employer to sign, nor can it exist. And precisely because of such a provision of 95. The law on the work of the first judgment has already been recorded in 97 and 98, that this was not legally feasible. For no private employer, even by the decree of this law, can force him to conclude such a contract. So these legal interventions will also have two categories of governmental, appointed officials in the context of the right to return to work towards the former employer. If it is the right or the desire to introduce it for all appointed ones, why not the same approach? Why do different methods, why doesn't there have to be a contract in the state service and there has to be a contract in the private sector? As for the state service for 15 to 20 years, how someone can be appointed a state official can change and impose on him the obligation of his return without a contract to regulate the conditions that he has to meet in order to return to the workplace where he worked. These warnings and case-laws that we have in Croatia, we have a case-law in applying such rules of the game when there were and all the problems that came out of it do not want to be heard when warning of the provisions of this law, that the right to return to the private sector without a contract will not be realised. However wise we are now with the replicas here, the court's decisions, the judgments of the court matter. And it doesn't matter what the minister and I think, how he and I read these provisions, but court practice, the verdict. And I end up with the following, always in legislation, when government officials were included, whether appointed, were elected in the same way to regulate the rights and obligations of local officials. So, municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and others who, according to special regulations, have that status. In this law we only include governmental appointed officials, so a partial solution. And that's why there's anxiety, and that's why different solutions are different, especially because clearly different ministries are also the origins for offering legislative solutions. We're always in trouble with those rights. Is it really so difficult within the government to achieve coordination and agreement that, in one way, the same for all appointed and elected officials in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we have the same regulation and the same standard, with the addition that municipal mayors, mayors and mayors as well as their deputies are also elected directly from the citizens? Noting that the issue of head of administrative departments, administrative bodies in municipalities, cities and counties has been so mutilated by frequent changes, unclear definitions that we are creating a problem whenever the handover of authorities is in local elections. And we witness this over and over and over again, instead of system solutions and the same legislative regulations, we offer partial solutions. And when we warn and say it's not good, it's immediately anger, ridicule, you don't understand anything, you're populist. And we just want to warn that it is not good for us to in one way address the rights of appointed state officials, in another way elected state officials, in a third way elected local officials and in a fourth way appointed local officials. So is it really possible that there are no people in this country who are from different resolutions to unite legal regulations, at the same time in the Assembly, to regulate and solve. Since this problem of the contract and never received a meaningful answer other than ridicule, and even on the board, we have received opposition from different, creating different categories of appointed state officials only depending on where he came from and because of the fact that the rank of state officials is also being obtained by assistant deputies, perhaps the secretaries will be state officials tomorrow. We will not support this bill until a very simple system is offered that we all know what rights in this country and our colleague Radoš has rightly warned before that we are often misbehaved with these topics, this is also one of the topics where unserious intervention has been prepared in law with different criteria in legislative legislation. And maybe in two, three months, we can discuss the rights of elected state officials again. So after two, three months of the rights of elected local officials, instead of today, we have solved the former presidents, parliamentary deputies, so elected state, appointed state, local and especially because they are in May elections. If that requirement is too difficult, unsustainable, not acceptable to the legal certainty of all who enter it. Then I apologize. It's really not an area of further controversy that the Minister of Labour would like to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30035	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me first, though it may not be common, but I would like to congratulate Parliament's leadership on the idea of opening a debate at 19.30 or something earlier on about the law on amendments and additions to the obligations and rights of state officials, I congratulate you who have had the patience to welcome this debate. We all know there's no direct television transmission after 15 hours. You have certainly accurately estimated that the Croatian public does not care at all about this law or the problem that we are dealing with and that we will just dry-track if we transfer anything from this debate and simply in the second reading this law with all these ideas goes as painlessly as possible and with less consideration in the Croatian public. I'm going to repeat something I said about the previous law on which some of my colleagues from the SDP have noticed that this is from a government workshop. It didn't have any special significance, the workshop. Much more significant was the observation that the first law is a hypocrite and I could almost apply that assessment to this law we're talking about right now. Why do I think this law is hypocritical? First, because this law is a consequence of meeting certain individual requirements which can be read in the coefficients you have proposed in this law. I can read because even in the first reading of the law when we made reasoned remarks on this law we see that you did not consider them, or have considered them, but you did not appreciate because you kept the same solutions as in the first reading, and it concerns some fundamental rights and important questions and I will start from that. This law in some way imposes an obligation not only on the authorities of state and public administration but even on private employers to receive in the working relationship people who have been on duty at the end of their duties, employers should take them back into service. First of all, what you've said so far in the argument and what I'm going to tell you again. This article, which imposes the possibility of a relieved official concludeing a contract with his former employer after leaving office, is a matter that is possible because the contractual freedom of these employers and workers and without having written it in the law. In other words, if I worked in a private company and I was appointed on duty, I could so far have had a contract with my employer that at the end of my duty I could return to work with that employer. It's a party's contractual freedom and you shouldn't have prescribed it by law. But since you've already prescribed you've made a commitment to that private employer to take me back after my duty has ceased, and that's what I mean is an inadmissible incuracy in the area of private employers that you don't normally help, and that's where you impose on them the obligation that people, at the end of their duties, have to take back into a working relationship. And I believe that such a provision of the law cannot endure any serious criticism and that it would be much smarter for the government if she hadn't written it in. The second thing that I said and it was about the workshop is the fact that this is a matter that is processed by law that is broader than working relationships, so it should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Administration, which is just so listed here in those representatives who will defend that law but we can see that it is constantly defended by colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. Why do I mention that again? Because it seems to me that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system has been further disintegrating these interventions into laws that have previously been done by other ministries, rather than regulating the system of their interventions, and I mean, first of all, given what you've changed in this law, which is that you've turned people who have been in the ranks of civil servants so far into officials. And in itself, because the rank or if you will and the image of these places would not be a problem if the problem did not have a broader dimension, and we look at it in the fact that the appointment officials are not subject to the same criteria that apply to civil servants. So it can become anyone who is politically decent without having to meet the formal requirements that civil servants must meet to meet in those places. There's a rabbit in that bush. So first, we're going to edit these people's appointments differently, so it's important that they become officials, that they be without any quantifiable criteria received in those places, and then we're going to also arrange their receipts. How? So we're going to say they run large systems, they're responsible for making big funds available, so it's logical that the HZZO director instead of the current coefficient that's not negligible, and it was 4.55 degrees in force of this law has a new coefficient of 5.70. It's like I heard in the introduction and so far the government's savings will achieve by raising the salaries of so-called officials. But interestingly enough, the director of HZMO who had the same coefficient of 4.55 per second will not have a 5.70 coefficient but a 5.50. Why? And why is the difference in those 0.20 in those two coefficients? Probably because in retirement insurance or manages a smaller system or has less resources than the one in health insurance. But it's also interesting that their deputies, both in the pension and in the health system, have the same coefficient. How logical that is, it's probably just the Proposer understands. And I will say what many are reluctant to say because Parliament's MPs obviously have further irritated the public, it's a shame of your colleagues from the position to allow, and often you talk about the dignity of parliamentary deputies, quality of work, and that we deserve a stable working conditions in order to do our job in quality, it's a shame to let the government persistently lower the rank of single parliamentary representatives. So now the coefficient of director of HZZO is 5.70 and the parliamentary representative 5.27. Some have already commented, we are at the rank of assistant ministers but if I took all the other coefficients, we would be surprised that the government thinks well about our incomes and then the salary coefficient. And we cannot agree with the government's intention to send any amendment to the law an additional message to the Parliament that MPs are worth less and less comparing them with executive authority. And what this government has done in these great savings is, of course, we can't get all the data, that there are currently 421 officials, according to what we've managed to count, and that we haven't added these new ones to those officials that you're now creating with the directors, deputies and assistant directors. But there are also no numbers of officials appointed to the cabinets of ministers whose term of office will take place as long as the term of office of a particular minister. So the story of you reducing the number of officials in the Republic of Croatia is a lie. The fact that those who were at the level of state officials you had reduced your rank to, instead of the director of those powerful management organisations you were talking about, became, say, sector leaders, you did not lose as a burden to pay your salaries just to cut their salaries and at the same time you brought new people without criteria to their coefficient, without competitions, declared them ministerial assistants and assigned them a coefficient of parliamentary representative 5.27. Never before in these 23 years has parliamentary deputies compared them to executive authority had such a low coefficient. So I plead to all my colleagues in the position and opposition that when it comes to the dignity of Parliamentarians we can say no to gross wages because most often people don't understand it but the net amount of wages that we receive is around 14 or 15 thousand kuna, and all of this you have now offered to amend the law greatly exceeds both the coefficients and amounts we have talked about. And in the end, if we could accept that the director but only from some institutions are government officials, then it's a very big question why it must be not only their deputies but even their assistants. The number of state officials will additionally burden the state budget. I can tell you about the changes you have recently made that, needlessly, the Prime Minister has the same coefficient of 5.70 as the Chief Director of Police, that you have raised the coefficient of the Chief State Treasury, the Head of State Administration, and so has the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, a duty that did not even exist to this authority, etc., to the Director of the Customs Administration, I would not want to offend anyone but can be compared, whose, as well as the Director of the Tax Administration, today's coefficient of 5.50. And that was the purpose of this law, it wasn't the purpose of the law to resolve the matter of employment. We thank you for that, and you shouldn't have done that. What is our opinion is that it is not possible to create in this way a obligation for private employers to receive people after they have ceased their duties, and all those who return to the system from which they have entered office have now received a new quality in their working relationship because they could be appointed without any criteria, and they will still have the right to return to the places from which they have taken office. It is a protection of much more than just some categories of officials appointed by the government, it is not a regulation of all rights and obligations of state officials. The only happiness is that the government has managed to stop us from coming up with such a clever proposal and for parliamentary deputies. But judging by our past experience, I'm sure you'll come with such a law that we'll also reject with disgust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30037	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30038	Comrade Mlakar, you have rightly opened this story of coefficients within the system of state officials. So Article 1 of that law states who are all officials within the meaning of the law and is then the first President of the Republic and then the President and Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament and the third MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and then they all go. And on the odds, the first president of the Republic is the Parliament, and the MPs in 35th place, 5.27, and it's not a small salary, and I think it's okay. But I'm asking what all these over 30 are doing. So we have a government spokeswoman equal to a parliamentary representative, we have an assistant minister equal to a parliamentary representative, the head of the state office has 5.70 even, deputy ministers 5.70, and then within the parliamentary representatives of that category of civil servants we have several categories so some have 5.70, some have 6.42 etc. Well, of course, the view of the people towards this home is no better than that two we get all the time in those polls because as the executive government thinks about us, and we make it all right here, that's the status we have. And we don't have anything to sleep with, it's just a question of why. For what? Why does the Presidency of the Parliament not advocate for Croatian representatives in the same way as the Executive Authority, with the help of the legislature and this House, advocates executive power, and therefore we are in this relationship that we must look at all i.e. We can't ask questions, we can't ask questions, we can't ask questions, we can't ask questions. It's no wonder, and one day we'll probably end up at the coefficient of the head of the sector that's already 3.20, maybe he'll end up already now, given that this 3.96, this deputy's assistant. I think this really opens up a broad topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30039	Time. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30040	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Boric, if I start comparing then it will turn out to bid on the coefficients of only parliamentary representatives, I see that the minister is as concentrated as we have so far. What offends us is the fact that the persistent and systematic executive authority wants to warn us where we are in view of how they see us, and at the same time those who suggest it have the following opportunities. They have jobs, jobs, a certain percentage of working time in hospitals or colleges. And it is not disputed, and after the term of office, everyone still has a protected ability to return to the jobs from which they have been appointed, and we are going to sink a little by little because none of the positions will even raise a voice to say that this way of insisting on the executive authorities to humiliate in every way the MPs continue and we are constantly listening to it, comparing the coefficients and nothing is happening. This is a cry anyway without the executive authority seriously wanting to think about it. I'm sorry I couldn't get the minister's attention because they called him, it was more urgent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30041	Thank you. And another replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30042	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mlakar, you've been very hard on the government, according to the promoter and the minister, don't say that. ... No, he didn't get a warning because he did it politely. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And they're fixing up, here's the minister warned us to watch out when we're discussing it, and we're sure to discuss one official now so he warns us in advance that this official, which I assume is the head of HZZ, that he's chosen by a public tender, so transparency is ensured. Look, they are now ensuring transparency after setting up all those ministerial assistants in all the ministries, all those employees in the cabinets of ministers, so without competitions of political choice, because they will come and go, after the collapse of democratic reach and after the depolitisation of the state administration that has been achieved has collapsed, and at the very least, as it seems to the democratic societies of the replaceable officials has fallen to two ranks. Now these are all ministerial assistants, etc. But the minister says what you've chosen in the contest is what they were for you, and so were all the high-end competitions, you named it all politically similar, and we're fair now, and we tell them right now by the political key we choose and they leave. And look at the wonders. He was elected head of staff, I think he calls himself the branch office of the Institute of Employment in Zadar, and as far as I can tell, there have been four applications, and there's just one with experience in the profession, a professor of Croatian language who has experience in employment jobs so far. And look at the wonders it is the political and council of the SDP in the City Council or the Assembly of the County in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30043	Thank you. Next up for a debate on behalf of the Advocacy Club, I'm sorry. Comrade Mlakar, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30044	Thank you very much. But fellow Lovrin, we talked about it and how much I understood from the beginning of this government's mandate, and they've repeated it a lot more transparently when they name you by a political line, a political resemblance than when you pass those contests that have all been haired and pre-convicted to choose exactly the one you've drawn up in advance. However, the fact is that even the bad candidate you choose meets such criteria still seems to me to be better than when you name someone without any criteria. However, these first ones who came without criteria have just begun to fall. The question is where will the fall stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30045	Thank you. And we continue to discuss clubs. Peja Grbin on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30046	I've only been in this House for a little over a year, but it still surprises me, a little bit and makes me laugh when I hear from HDZ talking political about humanizing and how scary it is when someone else does it. But good. We don't want to talk about it. We all know. Of course, we've always been the worst from the SDP, we're the only ones in this country who are politically involved. No one else has ever done that. It's probably been 20 years in some kind of winter dream. But let's go back to this law. Therefore, this law regulates one right which is the right of an official, appointed official to return to his previous post after the end of his term of office. The institute is arranged in exactly the same way when it comes to an official appointed from a job where he worked with a public sector employer and a private sector. And of course it has to be done the same way. Of course, because it's in accordance with our Constitution that guarantees equality. Because we cannot put into a more favourable position those who have previously worked in the public sector than those who have often worked hard, responsible, hard, hard, hard with their private employers. Does that put employers in a more unfavourable position? Well, not too much. Simply when their official returns, he will return to the workplace he worked for or someone else he has contracted. And since they agreed to come back in agreement, they can break their relationship. Now why is this institute being introduced? Is that why it's good for politicians? Some will say, of course, yes, we're all politicians protected by caste that has too many rights, so now we're all introducing another one. But it's not like that. This institute exists for one very clear reason, and the reason is to prevent corruption. It is a representative who also has his job to return to in his work that can be completely independent, independent of caring for certain jobs and money that he will earn after he ceases his duties and his own and his political party that he can say whatever he wants. You may be surprised by your esteemed colleague, Mlakar, but that is indeed so. Furthermore, this law corrects certain coefficients and those coefficients which are more or less determined, i.e. defined by those amendments to this law on 16 February, pardon in February 2004 in the National Journal of No. 16/2004. So, shortly after the then government took office, it changed its coefficients. The government, for example, introduced by counterpart Boric, for example, that the state secretaries have the same salary, i.e. the same coefficient as the parliamentary representatives. That's right. So now it's not worth it when it's done. The deputies are different. The secretary of state, we also have assistants. Yes, there was only one in the ministry, only one secretary of state in every ministry. The minister will probably correct me if I'm wrong, but there were a lot, a lot more than one per ministry. Thank you. So, the only thing that can be resented by us in the SDP, and I could accept that criticism is to intervene in the law that was passed in '98. and do what not without the devil other governments did when they were trying to regulate the governance and management system of the Republic of Croatia. Because one of those systems is also the schedule for who's going to do what and how much they're going to pay for it. And he is indeed right when he says that the director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute have a great responsibility that justifies the coefficients that were allocated to them. I will now be responsible to say they have far more responsibility than I have, but their salary is still less than mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30047	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow coat of arms this at the beginning when you said you were smiling at us looking down on your appointments because that's what we were doing politically. Well, I think you guys should make one awful face of pain today and say why my party does it, and that wasn't good. Today you raise your hands for it and applaud it. Well, that's terrible. Well, I don't know if you and your colleague Jelusic didn't read this law, and despite what the minister told you this wasn't about parliamentary deputies, you're calling them here again, and I don't understand why you're doing it anymore. What's your interest? The public, the press, what? What is your interest in saying that this law is also about parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30049	Thank you. We have an answer. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law concerns, among other things, parliamentarians in one part of the law, because Article 1 contains a number of persons who are considered officials when it comes to parliamentary representatives. Therefore, the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials also concerns parliamentary deputies. This is about parliamentary representatives, and when I think of Article 7, certain provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are abolished. And he does sort of refer to parliamentary representatives. For example, those parliamentary MPs who, after the HDZ's defeat, are in the elections by the then foreign minister who have been signed that they can return to their jobs neatly after the end of their term at the foreign ministry for 4, 8, 12 or more years. That's the part where it applies. In the section concerning the newly proposed Articles 15 and 15, it does not refer to parliamentary deputies because it is very clear that it is the appointed officials, not the elected ones. And I didn't start talking about the coefficients of parliamentary representatives. It was Boric, a colleague, who was finished saying that the salary of parliamentarians is small. No, she's good, she allows us to live. It was my colleague, Boric, who said the coefficients were uneven. Of course not, they're neatly arranged. But here's a colleague, of course, will correct me through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I thank him for that in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30051	Thank you. Before I give my colleague's replica to Mlakara, please welcome fellow Boric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30052	... He demeans me as a representative because he consciously said something I didn't say. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] I said it was 5.27 but it's still a big salary and I accept it that way. And this was intentional because he's a colleague as far as I can see in the election campaign. He's a young lioness, as I've read recently with the SDP, and yet in politics, he's still small teeth, but I'll allow insults, but I'll return without a problem. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30053	Okay, I have to interpret.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30054	And you vice president don't have the same criteria, unfortunately. You have given Mr. Shuker two warnings, the left side is never given a warning, and especially not for this insult that lasts for a full year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30055	As a matter of fact, my colleague Boric was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. You can't say your opinions. What's the fact... Allow me, what is a fact, the fact is that a colleague of Grbin's colleagues, Boric, in his debate, said that parliamentary salaries are not small. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's where you were wrong. You've made a mistake with your fellow coat of arms here. I'm not going to judge whether it was intentional or not, but there's a colleague here named Boric. However, this could also be said through a replica of no violation of the Rules of Procedure because the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a little more difficult to qualify. Comrade Grbin, my colleague Boric was right about that. Here are colleagues of Antičević's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30056	... Hurt the Rules of Procedure in 215, calling it, apparently jealous, of the youth of Mr. Pedje Grbin and his success and then wanting to demean him by calling him a little lioness. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30057	Comrade Antičević, I'm sorry. It's not Article 215 and there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd say first of all it's a pre-election rhetoric that I don't see why it can't be used. But I also think that as far as I can see from the look on his face, my colleague, he was not offended by this qualification and don't abuse the Rules of Procedure in that inappropriate way. Next replica, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30058	I'm afraid I don't forget the word, so, esteemed colleague Grbin, I've never personally spoken for the club, nor spoken to any of you for saying ad person, so I don't know what bothered you about my surprise. But I'll try to explain it on a nice, quick example. I don't think so, and I believe that if you thought this through, we might agree. I don't agree with imposing an obligation on the company x that has 200 people, that its head of accounting or the director of finance be appointed as a state official, and that the company is obliged after 4 years to return that head of accounting and the head of finance to that company, and that, during that time, that company probably if it had a director of finance it must find someone else and therefore do further employment to someone you haven't even helped too much in the state to overcome all the obstacles, let me say small or medium-sized entrepreneurs. And I think it must remain in the sphere of the employer's contractual freedoms and that official whether or not to agree on the possibility of a return. And to prevent corruption, I doubt it. I could draw the opposite conclusion that such an official will do everything with a goal or with the aim of helping his employer who would have to come back one day, and a conflict of interest may happen to him, we have witnessed it day by day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30059	Thank you. We've got a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30060	As for my colleague, Boric, I said he almost said it, not that he said it. So if he thought I offended him, here's my apology, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30061	You're responding to the replica of a colleague of the Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30062	I'll be right back. I'm sorry. Comrade Mlakar, what you've said is actually a contradiction in itself. Because if you suspect that this official will be doing services to his former and former and future employer while he's in charge, then it's not a very difficult circumstance for that employer to become what he is. But, of course, that's not the case. It is our interest that government officials, as they perform their duty, live off their wages established by this law, not that they have to worry as some about their future by taking a little toll on the side and doing themselves some supplies for the moment when they stop being state officials. And yes, this is just transparent about it. Everyone will know where it came from, where it comes back. Anyone will be able to verify whether the official in his work has done anything for his former or future employer's service. And that's just another thing that this law is trying to achieve, one transparency and one change of consciousness. We are responsible for what we do, we answer, and if we do not work well, we will be punished by voters in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30063	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30064	Thank you very much. I don't believe anything I said to you from that side. About what you said about me. Secondly, as for your views expressed in the debate, you said they have a director of the employment office and his deputy greater responsibility and therefore should have a greater coefficient, you said. As you measure responsibility if the number of unemployed is responsible, it's now 370 700 and something today, okay you're responsible, higher pay. I agree, no problem. So you were comparing the coefficients of state secretaries and deputy ministers said, there were many more, there were many more, and I here constantly underline the sub-capacitation of the current government's management staff. If one assistant minister in regional development can take care of 550 municipalities in Croatia, which is the fact that I wonder how this job works? And I know what the results are, you can't get a contract for six to seven months. A contract that you could get based on the state budget and that's already in 3 months or 2, let's say it in a certain way. These are problems and why don't you take another assistant and speed up the job, I'm not against it, I'm not against just these results. And as for your claim of corruption, it means that the politician is already a corrupt person, by the way, if he has a low coefficient, excellently, excellently, because obviously with us, corruption is a matter of interest not necessarily. It's totally wrong, it's a category of morality. And let's leave these questions to certain professions, because if we're going to talk about salary height and coefficient height as a source of corruption, then what about all the other professions? Is there corruption there or is there no corruption? I think it's totally declassified. As far as these pay statements are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30065	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30066	It is not our salary small, but obviously from some others who have entered the bill much greater than it should be and that is why I have stated that we are 3 in the 1st article, and 34 in this 2nd, 12th article, that is the only difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30067	Thank you, fellow Boric. We have a reply to the replica, fellow coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30068	Thank you. Well, first of all, I didn't talk about the director of the Croatian Employment Service because it is located in a position ranked under parliamentary representatives and under a new bill. I was talking about the director of the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The Croatian Health Insurance Office is an institution that has huge resources and is the director of the office's place with enormous responsibility. And I won't say that we Parliamentarians are irresponsible, away from it. But I think you'll agree, and even if I'm not mistaken, you were the secretary of state, so you know that sometimes in the executive sector where decisions have to be made on a daily basis that concerns large amounts of money that responsibility is much higher than here. But I'm going to answer to this second part, and basically by listening to your line, I've realized that you're somewhat right. Indeed, the coefficient is not in a causal and consequential relationship with corruption because unfortunately we all witnessed that the coefficient of the Prime Minister of 7.86 does not prevent corruption. But that's not the only question. It's a matter of transparency and showing what we're doing in a clear light. What we're doing is very clear. The man came from a company, he goes back to it, there's no favors, there's no under the table. Each of his favors to that employer will be clearly visible and sanctioned by either the State's Attorney's Office, the Commission for Conflict of Interest. If all these state institutions are to be sanctioned by voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30069	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30070	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, this late hour is becoming less and less and somehow the debate is getting more intimate and I don't think there's too much now that we should conflict and should because we should take the lead in considering that, according to the previous legislation, Articles 8.0 and 10. provided a similar solution. This has been modified so that the person selected in this case says this law can be appointed if the contract is returned to the employer's place of work depending on the assessment of the employer and the needs but returns to the company where he worked. That law will be abolished by this law. So there was already some possibility that a politician acting at a certain level could return to his post after the term of office. Will anyone return or will it depend first and foremost on the election and decision of those who need to assess the work of officials, which are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so that they will best know what place it is to be in high politics, who not? That will therefore depend on the election. What the HDSSB Club also does in this law, so we are not against making a decision that the appointed official can be returned to the workplace from which he went into office. We are also not opposed to having elected state officials debated in law when we are going to talk about parliamentary deputies, as well as making it possible by law. What is disputed for us under this bill regardless of the reason in the law that it is about taking responsibility for, above all, the large financial resources involved in certain institutions. All of us at certain levels, depending on what we do, assume responsibility and responsibility for the functioning of the state. What is not good for us, and these are the proposed coefficients that are increasing, I say, regardless of whether it is the Deputy Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, whether it is the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director, Director of the Croatian Employment Service, Director of the Central Insurance Register, Director, Deputy Director of the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of EU projects or the President of the Council for National Minorities. We're in a club against increasing the coefficients given the situation we're in. And we've lost a few hours to discuss the rights and obligations of the president of the Republic of Croatia after the end of the term where we're looking for the same thing, we don't know exactly how much that savings will be, but there's going to be some savings, so I'm asking for savings on that. We went to the elimination of certain benefits, the reduction of wages, the introduction of new taxes and so on, and given the principle that we are in a difficult economic situation where it is difficult to find a job and that there is an increasing number of unemployed, it should be the principle that all of these coefficients are somehow balanced with those existing in the categories in which it is tolerable. Every raise, every increase in the coefficients in this situation deviates from the principle according to which this government should go, which is that it should be saved, cut where it can be given the situation in which we are. It may have been a little inappropriate that we mentioned ourselves on several occasions today, given the state’s situation. It was simply the laws that were before us, so we argued. I think there's a much harder situation where someone can't even find a job today. So we are in favour of regulating the issue of the possibility of appointed officials so that they can return to the jobs they have left. With these formal solutions for 15 days, 45 days whether they will benefit from those two months' wages or not, will it really come back, if it can be in the private sector, in the real sector give someone a legal obligation that the employee cannot return. Therefore, this depends on the agreement, under this law it is possible to conclude an agreement and no obligation can be made to anyone in particular in that category of private sector that an employee or official is returned to the place where he worked. So it's a legal possibility but it's not a legal obligation. What we disagree on is the position of our club that in these moments, at times when we have to fight for every job and regardless of the weight of responsibility that the coefficients increase, we think that if better times come and we believe that they will come to Croatia, then we should consider everything and so on about these categories. For now, it should have remained in some real frameworks and we cannot support this part of the law. As far as these other solutions are concerned, we are therefore not about the fact that after the long conduct of office, either in the ministries or in the institutions, or in public enterprises, people find themselves on the street. So everyone is responsible for the donkey that works, if someone has done their job well, it should not be prohibited for him to continue doing his job so that he can return to the workplace he left because we believe that all officials should at least be so, it is our obligation, both MPs and officials to do their job honorably in accordance with the law and with the prescribed legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia so that there is no dispute that this part should be supported but I say we disagree with this to increase the coefficients and we will therefore be abstentioned in voting on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30071	Thank you, too. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I support this bill of law, but I was going to start it differently. However, the debate by a few HDZ deputies say the bill is a suma sumarum, their debate might come to your senses, although it is officials' place. Please, that's how Mrs. Anna Lovrin answered, please, from where? From Zadar where I'm from. As they collapsed and the global stock exchanges in Zadar flourished in the stock exchange of relatives, friends, party colleagues, of course, everything from HDZ, and that's something quite normal. Who is today at the head of the FINA branch in Zadar? HDZ member of the city council. Directors of all almost high school HDZ when they go to the school council of HDZ. That's perfectly normal. So how dare you win there by accident and a member of the SDP to be anything at all even though he's qualified and often overqualified? Well, that's impertinence, so you've lost every reality. Please, Mrs. former Secretary of State on the right and left hand of Ms. Anne Lovrin I would not say this at all if she hadn't said by portals today to see where witnesses in a difficult one process, Marina Dujmović Vukovic, names are no longer hateful, so we will talk about names, she mentioned a witness in a difficult one process in trying to bribe judges. I don't know if it's true, the court will judge whether or not it is. And please, by coming to the new government, she is no longer the secretary of state, the government has changed. Now you need to take care of it. And invent an unexplained front post in the county for Mrs. Lovrin's friend. And that one dares the minister to honor something here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30073	Comrade Antičević, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30074	That's the theme, Mr. Vice President. When the theme was Irena Dragic the only one then the theme is all these names. And I think, Mr. Vice President, that you should have reacted when Mr. Jose told our colleague that it was a pathetic law about the past. And I don't think it's about the poor law, I can only be the poor ones who vote for what they think is pathetic. Let's move on. I'm back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30075	I suggest you get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30076	I'll be back on the subject. So much because this was my duty to say because I wouldn't sleep well if I had said something, and I didn't say it. It's my duty to speak. Of course, it all has its price but these are the most beautiful things that are precious to me. You see, it is said here that fellow Mlakar speaks, please, of this bill there are some duties invented to become official posts to enlist officials with a high coefficient. So we know that officials last as long as the government does. And what was done before? And that was much wiser before. There, of course, the change of government appointed assistants. But then the assistants were actually removed from the assistant posts and became directors of the administration. So they were appointed without a competition, the government changed but they secured their people because they are places that are not variable. The law on the fixedness and the immutability of theirs has also been passed. Of course such a law has changed. The truth is they say on a note like this, but we've called for competitions for these places. And behold, all who were appointed before the assistants became directors. That's not true, they say it's not true. Okay. I think this bill makes things simpler even though there's been a lot of public dispute over even some getting paid. But it wasn't enough to say what number of people had cut their wages. That's what the minister was talking about. The amount of savings by applying how much will be saved through the application of this law. They're inconclusive facts. I wouldn't repeat what's clear to you all here. I support this bill. I think he reduced one policy, a policy of clean bills, but also when it's interpreted that one particular place calls itself to responsibility, then it's eloquent in general in politics to talk about that word of nuance of responsibility, that's an excellent word. However, we need to use that word more often and give it that content and I believe that this government will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30077	Thank you, too. We've registered three replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30078	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Anticevic, I don't think it's nice for us in this House Parliament to talk about a colleague who's currently gone, so she can't fight back, and the charges come from all over the place. But, well, everyone has a right to say what they want and so do you. Now the story of Zadar, and you can't find any SDPs there. What about the Word story? There's a SDP in power. Are we going to have a debate at that level? What about Zagreb? Here's a holding I read on the cover doing business in a minus, and we're honored with three million kunas more. Well, that's normal, I guess. But if it's on one side then it's okay, if it's on the other, then it's no good. Well, of course there's no truth, it becomes individual and everyone experiences it in their own way. In Rijeka, I cannot find anyone in any service, anywhere, that does not belong to HDZ but to any other party other than the SDP, here and there, perhaps someone from the HNS, all SDP. And there are such rules and what can be, nothing, the city collapses, everything goes down, but people will say whether it's good or not. These are the truths also and that should be said then, not only..., there are other environments where the SDP is in power. If you were different, if you could find someone from HDZ there, then I'd say you'd have a real right to say so when you said... These are the fundamental differences between us and you. In opposition, you speak one thing, and in power, something else, and in this matter. I know it's not easy to defend a bill like this, and it always does, and I'm gonna say a very nice minister, for me, who's really sitting here with us all day and tomorrow, I guess he's gonna sit with us all day, etc., but someone has to, and it's not easy to defend, but I don't think this reach for insults contributes to any quality debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30079	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. My colleague Marinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30080	... And that is to say, if it's a miracle from which city you can't do at all, it's hard to imagine at all what the proportions of nepotism and clienteleism are, and then you didn't say anything to your colleague. [[Speech is not enabled.]] So that's what it was about. And then I said it was my duty to say it. So don't be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30081	Thank you. Next line, Jozo Radosh. Here's your colleague, Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30082	Well, here's my colleague Ingrid, I don't know if I said it was one law or one solution, but in any case, I thought it was one continuity of bad solutions, and a concrete legal solution must contain all these possible negative processes that happened before then, and then it doesn't necessarily have to be miserable. As for the vote of MPs, they must also, in a way, cover everything that has been wrong in all possible and impossible developments of a legal solution in the last 10 years, and therefore I do not consider voting for that law to be one of the actions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30083	Thank you. Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Martincevic, I thought I might start out differently but my colleague Boric actually took what I was thinking of talking about when you mentioned Zadar. I'm sorry you're talking about names, my colleague isn't here and she can't defend herself, but you responded to him afterwards, and I thought I'd mention Rijeka, but the moment you started talking, I felt like a towel, not in the Croatian Parliament. Since you two or three mandates are here in the Croatian Parliament, I am truly surprised. I am the first term here and I came as a replacement and believe me that like all citizens of the Republic of Croatia or almost everyone I had a perception about the Croatian Parliament completely different. Coming to this Croatian Parliament, I was not surprised at the extremely poor organisation of this house, parliamentary representatives, everything they represent, so if you want to do what we talked about today's salaries. I can't say it's my salary but it's not enough for me. To live in two places, a family at one, I here, the phones I spend 1600, 1700 kuna, you have your laptop, you use everything you have to pay for, and I'm not telling you that people from my constituency who come here just because we have big salaries, I have to pay everybody a drink, I have to pay for lunch here, and I just avoid these people because those costs can't pay, it's not a big pay. I say that with a surprise because you and the observer in the European Parliament know very well how these things work there. I will tell you in the Bundestag you German, since you are the third or fourth term you would have seven advisors, and I as a young representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30085	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30086	What am I done for?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30087	You're done, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30088	And I wanted to pollemize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30089	Maybe the introduction was too long, I'm sorry. We have a reply to the replica, please welcome fellow Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30090	My colleague, you have not replicated anything to me, but you have used your time as a replica to cry as a parliamentary representative over your fate as hard as it is for you, and I would refer you to Miroslav Krleža, who has said nicely that crying over his fate is not worthy of any grandmother, let alone one politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30091	I hope this is my colleague Anticevic-Marinović, I hope this was a quote. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. My colleague, Gyurjica twilight, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is today the proposal for a law on government officials, and that is only for some government officials, or those appointed. Today's debate came to me for the simple reason why I wanted the public to listen to it, but the journalists finally understand what this is all about because, as we can see, some representatives from SDP clubs still don't know what law they're talking about and what is going on with this law. They know the law needs to be defended, so they say everything and everything. Mr. Minister, before I begin, I must tell you that I appreciate you very much as a doctor, but perhaps you are in some invisible position with this. I've asked you on two committees the same question why in public and no one cries like a grandmother when talking about themselves, no one when speaking culturally does not cry like a grandmother. But you need to know, fellow Ingrid, that today as Parliamentarians here, we want to speak frankly, finally honestly. And yes, I'm sorry to be giving my colleagues Ingrid honest. I am sorry that the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament has no longer engaged around us as much as the MPs have engaged around some state officials. Right now, I don't mind their coefficients or their return to their jobs. I think that's okay. I don't want to comment any more on how someone came to the workplace, whether he was appointed or came to the competition. I don't want to bring this debate further down to even lower branches, but what I'm saying is please try and you, Mr. Minister, so tell the Government, we want to return our dignity to the parliamentary representatives here. Tomorrow, the press will broadcast the following: that you said we had 27000 kuna, but you didn't tell the Minister that it was gross let someone pay. We don't, my salary is 14500 kuna, 14500. We don't even have transportation, we don't have privileged tickets, we don't have anything and we don't object. I was too proud when I came to this Croatian Parliament as a representative, and I didn't come, I didn't come off the road, I didn't come because I spent my whole life in politics, I came from my workplace. I came from my job that I had every job, and I changed two of them myself in a fair competition. I didn't work anywhere where the company runs means HDZ. The city of Zagreb knows who is in power, and before that I was in the field. So, too proud, too proud. But I'm 54 years old and the MPs who are here may be younger than me. And they came most likely from another job, but also from the MPs. Perhaps those young men who came directly by the hand here to the Parliament are thinking differently. Who do we have to be addicts about? About the presidents of our parties. About who? Where shall we go back after our term of office? Where? Nowhere. On the 56-year-old market? Who's gonna take us in more? Who? For mercy and mercy, that's what I'm talking about. We're not complaining. We're doing our job fair and square. It's 20 to nine today. My colleague Ingrid arrived at half past nine because she had a board. Some of us came back later. We're here sometimes by 10, half 12. It's not transmitted. Only nonsense is transmitted from this House. When someone calls someone, I don't know a fool or I don't know a coward, it's transmitted, and what's good and what some MPs and MPs say is wrong, it's not transmitted. Well, we're on the lowest branches. So believe me, when you go out there when you say you're a parliamentary representative or an attorney, people laugh. Come on! So what does it look like? Do not be ashamed of what is done, should not be particularly ashamed when it is done responsibly, when it is considered honorable and responsible. But don't let them insult us either. We're not all in the same position, and put us all in the same position. Why wouldn't they be? At least a little bit, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30093	Thank you, too. And on behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30094	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs here are 20 to nine, it's time to finish. I won't be discussing this for long. I'd only mention two things that when it's being discussed, then you need to be honest and look behind you and look ahead. So when we talk about this institute of staying or going back to work, make arrangements at HDZ whether you are or not. Therefore, the Institute of Return to Work is a commendable institute. It's not just us and it's in other countries. As far as parliamentary deputies are concerned, Parliamentarians have a special law as I have already noted in view of the discussion that was about the first reading of the law. We think it is commendable to carry out further consultations to arrange this institute in a fair way to satisfy all those who discussed in the first reading. As far as the director of the Croatian Employment Institute is concerned, he was dropped by mistake when we passed the Law amending the law in February of this year. Therefore, the principal is not a new official. Look at the changes to the law, so you'll see that she's been an official for years. And when I talk about whether we are employed by party or party duty or by Mrs. Ankica Paun Jerelah was the director of the Croatian Employment Service at the time of HDZ. It was a contest. She was elected and is head of the office at the time of the SDP. That's how we talk about political staffing. We've stopped at the point that it's necessary for the principals to choose the contest and all these directors who were there to be selected by the public tender. Therefore, everyone has a chance and a chance to answer, to meet the criteria and be chosen. As far as the Director of REGOS is concerned, he is not a new official. Therefore, he is simply the Director of REGOS, or Director. We think he needs to be an official since he has reason to be inside. But look at the devil! That's the official we're bringing in, but we're reducing his coefficient. So it's not like we're just raising their coefficients. When we speak once again for the end to tell the HDZ to agree because some of your parliamentary deputies have this job back contract they signed when they were state officials and some of them are likely to return to that post. And finally, and then we finally got tired of all the numbers, but there were 140 management directors, now there are 80 assistants. The numbers are very clear. There were 60 state secretaries, almost as well as parliamentary deputies, now there are 20 deputies. What my colleague Grbin said was one secretary of state and one deputy. We'd say allal faith that's the case, but obviously when we talk about numbers, let's look at the numbers and then we'll see what savings we've made. And finally, the increase in the coefficients will not lead to a break in the wage mass, but will be less due to the savings that we have made in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30095	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister by, I think for the fourth time now, I'm telling you, you're telling me about the HDZ Club and the individual representatives within the HDZ Club who have some contracts. So do you do this law because of these, precisely because of the HDZ Club, because of the HDZ Party, or do you want to make some fair law that would apply to everyone? I mean, I don't understand it anymore. But you keep talking, so I don't think I know any colleagues who are currently missing or someone else with some colleagues who, both from the SDP and HDZ, have some contracts in the ministries signed where they worked? What do they have to do with them not working there but working in other jobs? Do you then work for them? How long until we know. I mean, I don't know, so don't say that, Mr. Minister. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30097	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30098	I didn't say we were doing law for someone, I just mentioned that you agreed at HDZ that you would vote around the law and that already some MPs have this institute installed already now. We are the basis of the debate that was held after the first reading decided that further harmonisation of certain terms was needed and that this law was withdrawn. They'll come into parliamentary procedure once we've settled our positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30099	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. with a point in the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for the EU for 2013. Good night to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-06-0.u30100	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 117. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour and 33 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We continue with the work of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is next: - Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2013. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the plan, these are the provisions of Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion on the plan was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of European and Foreign Affairs Vesna Pusic. Here you go, dear minister.
