ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56361	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56362	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course the Prime Minister didn't come, which we didn't expect, because he's holding nothing to this House anyway. But I must say, for your sake and for the sake of the Croatian people, the only Croatian law that mentions the concept of labour obligation is the Law on Defence which defines in Article 29 as the obligation of employees in the bodies of the state government, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons who are determined by the obligation of defence preparations, which can be introduced by the Government in the event of war and the state of immediate threat. When I heard about the introduction of a labour obligation, I was thinking that as a reserve officer of the Croatian Army today, I would come into uniforms to work because maybe the government had declared a state of war without me knowing it. Since, as far as we know, neither a war situation nor a direct threat has been declared, for example due to some terrible earthquake, tsunamis, creepy floods, or some universal elemental accidents, the introduction of a labour obligation is simply an illegal restriction of constitutional freedoms of a category of workers. hospital doctors. If we're talking about major disasters and disasters, the only major disaster for the whole nation is this incompetent government. Maybe they finally figured it out, so they made a commitment. We wonder how long the government will, in its inability to solve any problems, and even those related to trade relations with trade unions, take arrogantly and arrogantly, actions that are simply anti-constitutional and illegal, such as this one. Does the Government worry that there are over 1200 specialists missing from Croatian healthcare at this time? Does he worry in the government that only in July after Croatia's entry into the EU, 36 doctors went after bread mainly in Germany, Great Britain and Scandinavian countries? I would like to stress that over the past year, only 40 doctors decided to go abroad and now, in the first month of EU accession, so many have left. That's what the people need to know because they don't want to tell them that soon they won't have anyone to treat them. Is someone worried about the government? Obviously not because they come anyway when they need all health care services for themselves and their neighbors immediately without any waiting, without any restrictions from the best specialists and experts. And to the people they care so much about, and to the hospital doctors, they have an illegal obligation to make it work as it may be for them. They've also found the person responsible for the poor medical condition, doctors. Then, of course, the regimeal media is still making a story out of the truth about how doctors don't do anything, they have salaries of 30, 40,000 kuna, they're corrupt, they're ignorant, and that's, of course, it's all settled. The prime minister also made it clear how he felt about doctors, declared them simply by the shut-downs. I only hope that they all heard it very well so that they will remember it in the next election, as their prime minister thinks of them. I also want to make it clear that one of the government's spins that has been repeated over and over the past few weeks, and according to which long waiting lists, the hospital doctor's strike is to blame. That's just not true. For extended lists, it is mainly wrong that the last year and a half of the budgets for medicines and consumables in hospitals, especially those of the highest, therefore clinically, are reduced to half. When you have only half the money compared to what you had earlier, of course you will be able to install only half the hips of artificial or only half the amount of pacemaker or anything else, or to postpone patients. And that's the real truth about the reasons for the extension of the waiting list, for many diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, not the strike of hospital doctors who actually worked the entire time of the alleged strike mostly. If they hadn't, I assure you the situation would have been terrible. However, the number of examinations clearly indicate that it is not a problem with hospital doctors but simply once again stressing in the extreme lack of money for hospitals. Therefore, it should be made clear that so-called. The resolution of health institutions without the necessary structural reforms has achieved absolutely nothing. What's the best way of saying what they're saying at first is what they're like. Rehabilitations made by additional debts of hospitals amounting to more than 700 million kuna. But that's also proof that hospitals actually worked and hospital doctors. Of course, it's not going to be seen at first, and we're going to be told at the end of this year that thanks to the hospital's recovery, they don't have debts anymore, but what I'm talking about now is clearly going to show up next year and then I hope no one is surprised. Once again, I stress this is an anti-constitutional and illegal decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56363	Thank you very much. Time's up. If it's illegal, you know what you have to do, and the government has to protect patients' rights. A colleague Branko Vukšić on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56364	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The health stone began rolling downhill the moment the government made one of the worst decisions in these two years in the sea of bad decisions, one of the worst decisions, which is to reduce the health contribution by 2 index points. Croatian Labourists then warned that there would be a collapse in the health system because with as much money as healthcare had with 2 index points there was too little money. At that time, however, Health Minister Mr. Ostojic said that the health money is sufficient, means too much, which is why they also reduced two index points and that the health redistribution will work far better and will fulfil all those obligations that need to be implemented. And these are likely to assume obligations towards employees and nurses and other staff and doctors. In a situation where more than ever social dialogue is needed in Croatia, which is largely in the moral crisis, and then in the economic crisis, it is not directed, it is not appropriate, it is not even polite for the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to call doctors the shut-downs. I've never heard from this pay phone that anyone spoke of Croatian doctors as doctors who don't work, who don't help their patients, that they are unprofessional or simply shut up at their jobs. On the contrary, patients themselves, when surveyed and asked them what is best in Croatian hospitals, means throughout the world whether it is the Hospital in Dubrovnik, Čakovec, Osijek, Zagreb, they said that they are doctors and medical staff who do not shut down but do their job. The introduction of a labour obligation is in fact a confirmation that the government has not established social dialogue. All the time talking to the Doctors' Union has shown that there is no real will to agree with them. I also talked to representatives of the Union of Nurses and representatives of the Union of Doctors and at some point they said, so look, we would even agree to all the conditions, the government just to say here we will pay you when we have money. There wasn't even that will. Time was buying, and one attitude came in, and it's not up to you to decide, so we'll decide. This is why a working obligation was introduced to doctors, in which laws were violated because it did not occur in Croatia, there was no state of emergency in Croatia, so it would be really direct if it could not come, in fact it would not be possible for the Prime Minister, the Croatian Prime Minister, to come to the health minister, and to say by which letter the labour obligation was introduced, is that what the Croatian Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament had just given up to the honourable vice president of the Parliament to protect patients' rights. The right patients are protected in various other ways, and one of these ways is to establish real dialogue and the real will of the Croatian government with doctors, with nurses. This is just proof that two years after taking over this coalition didn't make a single reform, and it didn't make the most sworn reform, and it swore exactly in the health system reform. The health system is getting worse, we warned that those two index points would make the situation worse. There's no money in hospitals from those most banal things toilet paper, gloves, endings, everything we'd say is too banal to mention about this pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56365	After the break will the first one speak on behalf of the SDSS club colleague Radin? [[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 10.48 HOURS]] Comrade Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56366	Dear Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDSS Club after consulting national minority club representatives, we decided on this step so that this Assembly and possibly the Croatian public on which we do not have exaggerated illusions because we are not properly organised or have clearly the appropriate means of forcing public opinion dynamics, we decided, despite saying that in recent times and recent days, space for the normal actions of national minority representatives is narrowed down. A direct cause for this is a postcard received by our counterpart Nedzad Hodzic, a representative of Bosniaks and other minorities from the ranks of the former Yugoslav peoples. The correspondent arrived at the Croatian Parliament on Mark's Square and the following content. Given the content and how often it can be read on portals, as well as in the messages of some people who receive space in public media and who stimulate these messages, and since it is anonymous, I am relieved of any obligation to respect the privacy and private character of what it says here because it is not private. "How dare you muslim-speak the holy name of Vukovar from those shitty Muslim stinking mouths of yours. Get lost in your stupid Bosnia and Herzegovina and shit on Srebrenica and other cemeterys and buy a one-way ticket so that we Croats don't have to look or listen anymore, eventually go to three cunts." These messages these days, weeks, years we've all listened to each other but we're not equally sensitive to them. When directed towards us from someone else, from the nerves, from the non-serbs from the sky, then we react and we are very sensitive. And when he's heading towards us from someone else to someone else, we don't have that sensitivity. And since we don't have that kind of sensitivity then this kind of thing happens to us. Because in our politics and our public it is thought that this is normal and that we are used to this kind of fascist message that can end evil as it ended in '91. and '92, '93. And '94. Before the day where we all have a duty to remember and not to conduct political accounts, where we all have a duty to bow down to the victims, and not to force the humiliation of others, it was my duty to read this postcard. Those who didn't hear it, who had a lot to do must have lost nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56367	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the national minority club, first they will speak to counterpart Nedzad Hodzic and then Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56368	I would like to thank Madam Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not only talk in this House about Vukovar and all the phenomena in this country and as a citizen and as a representative, because I have the right to do so, and as a representative and a commitment. Since this is, that I've shared with you as colleagues one let's say a private thing I'll say one more private thing. I was a werewolf child of Domagog Sheremett's schooled for three years in college in '94, '95. And '96. A year. I felt responsible because the victims of Vukovar and the prisoners were imprisoned in Sremska Mitrovica, in a town where I graduated from high school and in a penitentiary not far from my home. As far as Muslims in Croatia are concerned, the victims of the Homeland War who were in enormous proportion to the victims of the domicile population give us the right to be proud to point out who we are, both in national and religious terms. Messages sent by Mufti Dr. Hasanovic across Europe is such that the position of Muslims in the Republic of Croatia is that he can serve as an example for a solution to the Muslim issue throughout Europe, which has certain problems with Muslims, but also the messages he sends as head of the Islamic community in this country are that the Arab world of Croatia can take an example to solve Christian issues in Arab countries. So please, this is not nor fear of this as a threat at personal level, but the context in which all this is happening in Croatia is not good and I ask you to do everything in our power, and much is in our power to make this society well, society is sick of a very bad disease that can escalate with the consequences that are great and I ask you therefore not because of this letter but because of the overall state of the country to do everything in our power to make this society well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56369	Thank you very much. Someone will say, and he already said it was just a postcard, but it is a reflection of a state of sight in the newspaper comments of those readers and often journalists, and it is visible from the comments of people who consider themselves to be from the so-called. cultural life. The situation in Vukovar has been escalated by gentlemen, it is only a sign not because of efforts to apply the law, but because of a strategy of tension that is clearly in action. Werewolves aren't extreme people. I've spoken to a large number of Croatian werewolves who don't think that way from a distance. What I'm saying is that even those who do vandal acts in Vukovar are also people who are being manipulated. So evidence in the end that it is a project, not just an expression of emotion, and especially the expression of pitetium is a pitet that implies convergence but not a divergence is that a referendum is being prepared to reduce the level of bilingualism of all minorities in Croatia. If it's not a project, then I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u56370	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I hope you don't mind me saying a few sentences after these steps. I believe that on behalf of all MPs and MPs, I can condemn such a procedure regardless of what he came as an anonymous message and give support to our fellow representatives of national minorities here in the Croatian Parliament. The degree of democracy of one country is measured by the degree in which the majority respects the minority. I call on my colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs to cultivate in our actions a culture of dialogue and respect and to condemn every message of hatred. Thank you very much, I hope I share the opinion of all of you. My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We're going to continue with the session and we're going to discuss 7. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 497. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr. Saša Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57309	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57310	Just a moment to announce. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57311	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The HDZ Club is looking for a half-hour break. We must, like this Parliament, react to the fact that the Government was yesterday, since it was obviously completely incapable of social dialogue with the unions, so it gave up one lightly made anti-constitutional and anti-zoonatic decision to declare a working obligation for all hospital doctors. The decision to introduce a working obligation is a first-class scandal. It recalls a decision previously taken by the SDP led by the government, which, after a one-month strike in 2003, introduced a working obligation on the occasion of the doctor's major strike. Although the then SDP led by the government failed, it was more correct than this because it at least tried to act legally since there was no possibility of introducing a labour obligation in the applicable Health Protection Act at the time, but in the current law it simply does not exist. Because of this scandalous decision by the Government that violates the Constitution and which is not founded in any law, we ask the Prime Minister to come and explain his move to us, not only as Prime Minister, but also as a lawyer in the order in which the law is laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57312	A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57313	The Croatian Labour Club – working parties for the same reasons requires a break of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57314	I'm setting a break from 10 minutes to 9.47. And now I call on Deputy Minister Sash Zelenick to explain the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57316	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs. Very briefly, therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights has therefore been drawn up by the State Institute for Intellectual Property by this proposal for a law harmonising Croatian legislation with EU Directive 2011/77 on the duration of copyright protection and certain related rights. As soon as possible, the law amends and complements the provisions relating to the rights and duration of the rights of artists who extend from 50 to 70 years, and the rights of phonogram producers and the duration of those rights are also extended. A further article that provides for the duration of the right to music works is complemented by words as provided for in that Directive. It is also based on national gender equality policy recommendations for 2011-2015 that a provision is introduced that regulates the gender neutrality of the term. There are even more subtle things, but I say the law is in front of you, you saw it, it passed the boards, so these are basic indications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57317	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and counterpart Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57318	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Immediately at the beginning of the Croatian Labour Party will support this change and amendment of the law. But for the debate, we came forward for one reason that we received a lot of phone calls from those people who actually don't understand what copyrights are, which are related rights and those people who don't understand why copyright should be paid at all. You know as well as I do how many calls there have been to ZAMP because it's collecting compensation for copyright. I'm not getting into that other part of the story, the height and possible irregularities that happen in companies that are in charge of collecting compensation for copyright. When the great writer, Irish writer Oscar Wilde traveled from the island to the U.S., he came to customs and the customs officer asked him if you had anything to report for customs. That's when he said I had nothing but my genius. A few days ago, I'm sure most of you saw that a single painting was sold for huge money. It's three Freud studies, sold for 140, not Freud's author, for $142.4 million. The pictures would say normal size, so no work bought for canvas, for frames, was bought for author's sake, for art. We could say that literally, banally, because of the author's work. Copyright is the right enjoyed by writers of literary works, scientific works, musical works, generally works of art. The author shall be entitled to copyright for his copyright by the act of the achievement of the work and, unlike most other forms of intellectual property, shall not be subject to any administrative or registration procedure. It protects not the idea but merely the work that is expressed by the human mind and the human art. This law, which is before us, is in line with the acquis of the European Union, and some deadlines are being moved to compensate for copyright from 50 to 70 years of age. For Oscar Wilde, or for his heirs to his copyrights, copyrights expired 40 years ago because Wilde seemed to have died in 1900. So copyright creators or performers enjoy their lives and 70 years after death. Mostly these are the most important changes and alignment with the European acquis in this law and I repeat, the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57319	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57320	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is a fact that in some theories what is considered to be a civilised society or a civilised community is seen as both the community and society as a whole are related to copyrights and copyrights. The fact is that this is actually one gain, so we can also say a Western democratic society that in some way valorises any artistic, artistic work that is spoken of by fellow Vuksic. And it is no wonder that this is also the case with the EU Directive, which means that both the European Union and the European Commission want to regulate one area that is making no profit. There's no profit. The fact is also that it is entirely justified to protect copyright in the best possible way. It seems to us that the deadline for alignment with this European directive was 1.11. We're a little late. I hope that this will not cause any operational problems in proving and applying copyright which individual copyright holders have the right to do, although I think we could have done so within the prescribed time limit. It is good that these amendments and additions are supported by copyright holders' associations, it is good that these amendments and additions did not go into any other procedures related to this Copyright Act, despite the fact that there were thoughts in some circles that it was a certain kind of parafiscal intrusion. This is not because this is about the offered service that someone can use, can consume and pay certain merits to the holders of... copyrights. What is very good when we look at the debates that were held in the Croatian Parliament during previous amendments and additions to the same law, it has been said very often that, the law is well declared, let's call it so, written. However, the issue of its application is raised. How many criminal or criminal provisions at the end... how many are actually applied in practice and how many times and how many are actually charged fines for copyright violations. There is a familiar situation and there is information about the rights of authors of Croatian films and other audiovisual works compared to HRT. There are reportedly serious problems about copyright protection when re-emissioning recorded audiovisual works. Very often in daily newspapers, very often you can find pictures, photographs, drawings from individual books, individual authors without even writing from which part was scanned, photographed, just one sentence. He made that one in that book and that book and there's no consequences. Given everything we said in the opening section that protection of rights is extremely important, that it actually divides societies into highly developed and less developed. It would be good to strictly apply the intended fines and we think there is room for progress, especially in the implementation of this law. Therefore, since the law, that amendments and additions to the law are primarily based on compliance with the EU Directive, which we are in principle always in favour of their application, and in the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ Club will also support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act with the final draft of the law, regardless of what we have so far not had the opportunity to support any law that came from the ministry that proposed this law. This time, however, seems to be, since it is a matter of harmonisation with the EU that we will be able to support this delay that should have been harmonised by 1 November 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57321	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57322	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. This bill, of course, means the harmonisation with the acquis of the EU, i.e. the transposition of the EU directive into Croatian legislation as the text and the directive is, of course, prepared in the committee after consulting experts in this area and presented to Parliament and the Council. It is clear that the text of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act should also be supported. As the literature states by enabling the free movement of goods and services, and by achieving the freedom of competition in the EU internal market, the postulate is therefore to be... and the right to intellectual property, and the territoriality of these rights that exist in EU Member States, of course, is in conflict with this basic postulate by achieving the unity of its internal market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The intellectual property rights are, according to their nature, territorial rights because they produce effects, therefore, in the area of the Member States which have recognised them under the law itself, either on the basis of a decision taken by the competent authority in a specific procedure, an administrative procedure. Therefore, the aim of these Directives is clear and the aim of transposing these Directives into our legislation is to harmonize national rights. But these amendments, I would say, no matter what procedure we are normally in, we support this law, there are substantive reasons why we should support the law, therefore, and regardless of what is done in most of the harmonisation law. This is about certain extensions of the existing artist rights of the artist in relation to the phonogram manufacturer. Thus, it extends the time limit of protection which is most important in the law from 50 to 70 years from the first, so legal publishing or public disclosure of performance fixed on the phonogram. They'd say layian language from the day of the recording, or the release of a CD or another audio carrier. In order to enable, hence, the implementation of the benefits from this extension of the deadline, additional annual fee shall be provided to artists who, after 50 years, are obliged by phonogram producers to make a commitment to performers for artists... an additional annual fee after those 50 years of 20 % of the revenue made due to the exclusive rights of distribution, production and availability of phonograms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also prescribed that phonogram manufacturers are obliged to supply all the information necessary for payment and compensation to authorised artists, performers, their associations that make this fee available in the system. So, basically, it enables them to exercise that right in life. They shall be determined to ensure that contracts between the artist and performer manufacturers pay, in the course of the extended period of protection, the amount of the tantium or the fee unburdened by the amount of advances or any other additions that they have previously agreed on, according to contracts between the artist and the performer. It is also prescribed that artists, performers have the right to request a change of the contract described. So, to adapt these contracts to their new rights under this law. So I would say that with these changes, it strengthens the position, so I would say weaker contractual sides than between artists and performers and phonogram manufacturers. In the context of this law, here is when I speak in general about copyright first, it should be stressed that it cannot be equated only with the right of ownership and not only with personal rights, but also with elements of both property and personal rights. We can therefore find in the literature that the opinion that copyright is essentially a set of property and personal rights prevails. Since the right of artists, performers by their nature is related, the consensual right relating to the copyright and the right of artists of performers is consequently composed of a set of property personal rights, and in order to facilitate the understanding of matter it should be noted that the right of the artist is an artist of absolute nature and that therefore it is the power to use both the performance and other exclusively incurring of its rights. Artists are therefore actors, singers, musicians, dancers and other persons who perform works in the fields of literature, art and such. The artist is also considered a director of the theatre performance and conductor of the artistic ensemble. These changes include, therefore, the property but somewhat the personal rights of the artist of the performer. First of all, by extending the duration and protection of their property rights. We from the SDP club of course support this greater protection of these artists performers that imposes on these amendments and additions to the law. As far as the period of the period of copyright property rights is concerned, the period covered by that protection has already been laid down in 1908 by the review of the Berlin Convention for the Protection of Literature Art, and that period has already been set for 50 years, and in '48. This deadline has been established as minimum of 50 years in all States which are bound by the text of the Convention, which are mainly all European countries. It is therefore seen as a tendency which we consider justified in extending the duration of the property component and protecting the copyright holders. The trend is then noticeable for the artist performer, therefore, because their right is a concexical right of the author. So the related rights in some legal denials are noticeable that, I say it is different from the state to the state, in some it lasted 20 years, in most countries it has been extended to 50 years, and now here these changes and at EU level therefore respects that this period of protection for performers artists should last 70 years from the date of legal publication or communication. Of course, the rationale of such extension is greater protection of artists performers, artists artists are worth telling every society. They are a creative part of the community that is the core of the cultural spirit of society and we from the SDP club, of course, support such tendencies and I repeat these amendments and additions to the law accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57323	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57324	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. The fact that all these amendments and amendments to the law are in line with the EU acquis leaves us relatively narrow space for any further reflection on them. Of course, intellectual property should be protected in every form, but I honestly wouldn't share that much enthusiasm about these things. We have various examples of this intellectual property and how we protect it in the Republic of Croatia and not only in the form of these audio records but also other forms of intellectual property. On the one hand, when it comes to scientific production, the current scientific production is, for example, I'm going to refer to medicine, so scientific papers, for example, in the field of medicine. They are available, you can download them, you can quote them enough, so the author from where you take them, where you use them, and you don't have to pay in any way the rights of whoever you quote or take as part of any of your work or refer to them. On the other hand, we have an example of intellectual property, for example in information, where a large global company called Microsoft has imposed its own product called Windows, 1 CD that if you want to legally use in the Republic of Croatia you need to pay unrealisticly as a private user of 1000 or 1500 kuna for the use of something. Well, of course in such a consolidation of things that this company that sells a product that de facto doesn't have and we all have to buy it very quickly can become using its monopolist de facto position to become the fastest growing and practically strongest company in the world. And is that fair and did we really get hundreds of millions of copies of these Windows sold to achieve some kind of social justice and protect intellectual property? Well, I guess we did, even though frankly I wouldn't put my hand in the fire if that were the case. We also have very successful laws that protect additional artists and their intellectual property through the ZAMP regulation. I think it would be worth a little more talking about and a little more as well as as the Croatian Parliament and as a resolution ministry, and therefore to see whether the most just and justly established protection of intellectual property and those performing certain performances is in this way. I'm not sure that's the case. And in what way has it been implemented, through whom is it regulated, and where is it being spent, and how is this money spent? In this case, by extending the protection of artists' rights and the rights of phonogram producers from 50 to 70 years of age because of the assessment that the life span of people is significantly extended so that these rights remain during the life of the performer if, in the very early years, it may have made some sense. However, I will remind myself that Article 137b is also amended, which "provides a follow-up measure on an additional annual fee which, after 50 years of legal disclosure of the public or the issue of phonograms, obliges phonograms to grant them the right to exploit their fixed performance for the entire period of protection in exchange for a one-off fee at least once a year to allocate an annual fee of 20% of the revenue from exclusive distribution rights, reproduction and the availability of phonograms collected by the manufacturer in the year preceding the year preceding the commitment". So after 50 years, those who distribute and reproduce commit to placing on the CD market 20% of the income, not to profit, but to the income that they make from these CDs, they pay to whoever author it. I'll point out it's not about getting one more. 20% of the income is set aside, realistically looking, I mean, you're successful if you can make 20% of the profit at all, not only if you're singled out for the rights of the performer 20% of the income. Let's try in any other activity to realize whether we can make a commitment to someone on the market that only 20% of the income goes to anything. How much profit does he have to make? So not taking into account expenditures, any expenses but only revenues. Do we place this burden on those who betray it or on the other hand we have to put them in a position to make these CDs and these sound carriers no matter what form they are very expensive, so that they have very high income so that they can single out 20% of that income. Of course, when they are as expensive as they are today in the Republic of Croatia, then no one will buy them or buy them very few people because it is difficult for people to single out 20 or 30 euros or 150 or 200 or 220 kuna for one CD at a time when they have such a bill for electricity or a monthly phone bill or it costs so much kindergarten in the city of Zagreb per month for a child. So what I'm saying is, this is how you declare it and make those commitments. But let's look at the consequent effects they're creating. So this set of things under 1 of course that those who put it into distribution will have a very difficult time fulfilling their obligations, the prices of the sound carrier must be very high, therefore very difficult for the users available and, of course, that this will be poorly bought and that people will strive in cheaper ways to use a certain song, music or composition. And in Article 137b(2), paragraph 2 states that "the artist performer cannot at all give up the right to this additional annual fee", therefore there is no possibility of giving up that right. I don't see why there's no possibility of giving up the added right of 20% after 50 years of copyright. Once again, if this is the only thing that we can do according to EU directives, so if there is no space in any range, then it can only be like this, then we will agree with this, given that as an EU Member State, we have to accept more or less all the directives. But if there was a space, then a range of some variables, we think that this fee should be smaller, lower, that there should be a possibility that the performer would give it up and that we're not entirely sure that this is all as happy as my predecessors said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57325	Drazen Pandek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57326	Here's a thank you. First, I would refer to the claims made by an esteemed colleague about the monopolitical position of an IT company in relation to operational systems. It's not exactly because there's an open source operating system like Linux that tracks an open office which is also an office program that belongs to an open source domain. It is true and I agree that, for example, the Ministry of Education and other institutions may need to promote more open source so open source programmes and educational programmes and perhaps even state services and institutions should more respect that this exists. I think there are examples in Germany or China where state institutions use open source programs. Of course, this is a question of quality regardless of the price, yet these commercial ones are more quality and more reliable than these others. But I still think we have a choice. As for your remarks on a fee of 20% not getting but income, I think it's still justified if you're careful when we talk about a sound carrier in today's CD, his cost of making is maybe 5 kuna if we're looking at distributions and other accompanying costs it might be 15 kuna. I think today, regardless of the sound carriers like the CD, they're still too expensive when they're being betrayed by some big record label. Their price hasn't dropped in almost 20 years, regardless of the far less cost they have in making distributions. I think it's justified, therefore, to make that 20% fee, so if we count that the cost of production is about 15 kuna, probably less, everything else is essentially the profit generated by the publisher, or probably shared with the author by the performer or the author of the text...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57327	Thank you very much. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57328	Yeah, when it comes to operating systems and information systems, you're right that there's another open part and free, but they don't apply because this is a brand, this is a brand that's imposed. Like when the state and county order these cars, there's cars on the market all you want, but everybody just wants an Audi because Audi's a brand. Like we have here this audio system Siemens, we don't... although maybe there's some... that's much cheaper. We bought Siemens's even though it's not right because it's also a brand and because we're forced to actually be more or less able to choose what's kind of rated as a quality system. But if you really look at the price of that so-called. The intellectual property that is charged through the prices of using various programmes is, of course, the answer to why this industry is the fastest growing industry because it sells a product that is de facto physically gone. He was once made, and all what all users use are actually just images of that one product that was once made. On the other hand, when it comes to this fee, I just wanted to say that CDs on the Croatian market and sound carriers of all forms are very expensive and of course that today when the internet is available everyone listens on various websites, in the first place youtube music, and they have no money to buy a CD of 200 or 220 kuna because I say there is so much kindergarten price in the City of Zagreb per month, so much electricity price per month for one household, not to buy one CD.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57329	On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57330	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law has a very limited area and it is except for one provision concerning the appointment of the Council of Experts, it is a matter of harmonisation with European directives, and that is 11 of them. Of course, these directives are not unquestionable, but... these directives have been adopted as a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and I here can express the view that these are very high-quality legislative acts. So our formal obligation, and I don't think we make any mistakes in our content when we bring our laws into line with the directives, but of course I agree with that neither these directives nor the legal acts of the European Union, no matter what levels are unquestionable, and it is important, of course, how we transpose them into our legislative system. It's not just mechanics. Croatia has its specific conditions and these issues are open here, which do not fall under this law are relevant issues to be opened, but these issues are not regulated by this law. It is therefore one network of European Union documents older than '91. years and, of course, it's not easy to manage them. That is why we have the harmonisation of the law not only with the new amended directive since 2011 but also with the two directives with which the harmonisation has been completed, but obviously not well enough. So it's about a very complex and substance of copyright and a very complicated actually legal arrangement. Now in all this, find a specific interest of the Republic of Croatia that would not be in line with those directives, of course it is not easy. And that is why I cannot praise the fact that we are late with the adoption of this law because, at the very least, if it is just technical harmonisation, and it is also if it is only the appointment of councils that are transferred from the Government to the Ministry which I support, in some matters the Government does not need to burden its work, but it is logical that this type of appointment and supervision of certain procedures and jobs is passed on to the ministries. Therefore, if it is very in some way defined and undeniable content that should have been in this law, then there is no reason for this law to be late. The law came to the Croatian Parliament on 24 October, the deadline was 1. In November, therefore, this work of technical harmonisation and technical implementation of the Government's decision on the appointment of a council should have been done long before, early enough to respect that deadline by the European Commission and if we are not able to do so, then it is particularly not expected that we will be able to manage these directives and, in particular, recognise the space for achieving our specific interest in accordance with our circumstances. But since it is technical harmonisation, not entering this complex of issues, of course copyright is a very complex area but with confidence that it is regulated in European directives in a proper way, that this is not only a commitment of the Republic of Croatia but probably also in its best interest. Perhaps we have failed to achieve some of the additional gains and breakthroughs that we may have been able to make, which is now difficult to assess without a deep analysis of this law. The club of HNS representatives will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57331	Thank you very much. Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57332	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues. So I'd just briefly look back on here this brief exposure and I'd say at the beginning that the delay isn't so crucial. It is important to talk about this law constantly, constantly and warn the Croatian public about that subtext or context that we talk about when we talk about copyright and related rights. A colleague before, Djurovic stressed that the law makes sense. I think that law certainly makes sense because it actually speaks about the protection of work, the intellectual work of all those people, artists, authors, musicians, painters, writers whose work is difficult to measure quantitatively in a factory or otherwise, and that is why it is important to talk about it. It is important to talk about this and from another aspect because we are often inclined as a people in these areas to look for shortcuts, to look for easier paths. However, there are the right ways to achieve certain goals. If we want to buy a certain music product, the music CD that does not cost in shops about 250 kuna, but the average price is about 100 kuna. Here I recently bought a CD from American musician Pink that costs 119 kuna. So it's not a crucial price for the media. It's not about whether a CD costs 5 kuna or 50 kuna. It is a crucial value of copyright, and we must never forget it when we talk about this law, but when we talk about copyright at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57333	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57334	I can't support your position that delay doesn't matter. Rocks, respect for these deadlines can sometimes create far greater problems than formal delays of ten days. Such minor defects must not occur because this can mean and most often means that the event is then missed in the substance of things. Such small, small, unnecessary mistakes must not occur because they are a very complex and demanding business. As far as the meaning of the law is concerned, I have made it very clear that the law makes sense because it regulates, equalises rights, or works one appropriate parallel between the rights of the author and the rights of the performer, protects performers from, enhances their position in relation to phonogram manufacturers. Therefore, the law already makes sense, and I have voiced my conviction that this law is good because I have high confidence in the quality of EU documents especially after 2001 when they are joint directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. So I'm sure this law makes sense and it'll be useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57335	Thank you. Final Deputy Minister Mr. Sasa Zelenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57336	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I thank you all for your constructive discussion. We will certainly also work through all the working bodies where we participate at EU level to work towards the specificities of our affirmation and where this can, of course, be incorporated into the directives. I thank everyone for supporting the bill. As Government, we accept this way and the amendment of the Committee on Law in which three details in Article 14 of the Law are explicitly and nomotechnically arranged and I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57337	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Now he reported on behalf of the SDSS club colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57338	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club, I am looking for a 10-minute break due to the circumstances in which the National Minority Representatives Club has been working in the past days, especially some of its members.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57339	A colleague of Nejad Hodzic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57340	Dear Vice President for the same reasons on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57341	I'm setting a break to 10 o'clock and 52 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57342	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 497. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the applicant and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am therefore voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, a law on amendments to the Law on copyright and related rights in the text has been passed, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57343	Now we will move to - Proposed legislation on radiological and nuclear security, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 501 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, it will introduce the draft law of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Marijan Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57344	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So before you is the proposal for a law on radiological and nuclear security, with the final bill. The proposal for a Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety provides for measures of radiological security, physical security measures, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in carrying out nuclear activities and activities with sources of ionising radiation, and for the purpose of enabling adequate protection of human and environmental life in the present and future against harmful effects and ionising radiation and to enable the safe operation of activities with sources of ionising nuclear activity and physical security of the source of ionising radiation and nuclear plants in accordance with the EU acquis. This legislative proposal sets out the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security as the Central Regulatory and Supervisory Authority in the field of radiological and nuclear security, extends and detailed regulations on its work of competence and powers to take measures in order to protect against the potential adverse effects of radioactive sources. The legislative proposal further detailed and systematicly regulates the answers to possible extraordinary events as well as the responsibilities of the authorisation holder and the obligation to resuscitate damages from a possible extraordinary event. The legislative proposal also provides for the obligation to adopt a strategy to regulate the procedure and way of handling radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel, which will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Croatian Government. The proposed normative solutions shall fully ensure the implementation of the relevant regulations and Directives of the European Union in the field of radiological and nuclear security, as well as the full independence of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security in accordance with the requirements arising from the legal acquis of the European Union. Health institutions in the Republic of Croatia are the largest promoter and user of ionising radiation sources and in the healthcare sector over 2500 such sources, most of which are x-ray devices, about 2300 x-ray devices. It's practically impossible to imagine a medical facility without an X-ray device. Allow me, Madam Vice-President, to declare myself also in connection with the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament at the 65th session held on 6 November 2013 in which it is proposed to replace, in addition to the provisions contrary to this law, the words if they are not contrary to this law. The proposed amendment does not affect the content of the essential provision of the bill, and then we propose, or agree to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57345	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ representatives and counterpart Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57346	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I think it's a really good opportunity to talk today about an important issue for the Republic of Croatia. As far as the law itself is concerned, I believe that it represents a correct framework that is clearly not automatically bad, the profession wrote for itself. Here in this House a little, if at all an expert on radiological and nuclear security and we rely mainly on the expertise and professional experience of people from the state administration. However, it must be noted that most of this issue is regulated not by this law but by a whole series of regulations that have been passed, remain in force, and many of them, in accordance with Article 96, I think in this bill, are foreseen for adoption in order to actually put the largest part of the provisions of this law into office. Those regulations shall be adopted by the Director of the Office in accordance with the law. A general deadline has been set for their adoption for two years. I can only express hope that this deadline is realistic and that it will be respected in this and not only that context, I believe that a good solution to the establishment of a council on radiological and nuclear security, as an advisory body of the Croatian Parliament, is particularly in the section concerning the submission of proposals and opinions to the Assembly on the organisation of radiological and nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. In light of the reasons for the law, as well as in 2010 it is concluded that the area of radiological and nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Although I can't say whether it was enough just to amend and supplement the existing law, I personally always support the creation of a new text so that users don't have to pave the way for themselves to come to what they are interested in in in a certain law, even though it is a common legislative practice in our work. What seems particularly important to me is the fact that from this, let's call it a basic regulation, it is not clear that there is a general strategic response from the Republic of Croatia to issues concerning radiological and nuclear security. First of all, I mean the part about national security in this important segment. One of the modern threats of democratic societies is the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in this context of the nuclear one. About this, all Croatian officials, including parliamentary representatives, are regularly speaking and repeating these thesis at relevant forums, particularly abroad. However, unless at the state level we have a clear provision on the assessment of Croatia's degree and direction of threat when we talk about radiological and nuclear security, it is impossible for the protection of citizens from this type of risk to be implemented in a comprehensive and sustainable way. This law, however, speaks of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the sense of course of ban but there is no way to implement what is not within the jurisdiction of the institutions. The law therefore speaks only of a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste from spent nuclear fuel sources. I am saying this not only for the primary purpose, which is to protect the safety and health of citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also because it is about opportunities to ensure international financing of certain projects. I will tell you that a few weeks ago the European Commission made a decision, in fact the Council of the European Union made a decision to support the Union with the activities of the International Organisation for Nuclear Energy based on its development strategy and the European Union Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In the part of the projects of the international agency corresponding to the measures of the European Strategy, funds can be applied to support the strengthening of Member States' local infrastructures, strengthening legislative and regulatory frameworks at national level, nuclear and radioactive safety systems, institutional infrastructures, supporting the awareness of society as regards Internet crime affecting nuclear safety, developing sufficient laboratory capacities. So these are all projects where we can apply. And here we come again for me to that conclusion about a lack of coordination between the resistors. Because this provision has been prepared on behalf of the Commission by the High Commissioner for Foreign and Security Policy and by the Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Ashton, and to me how well it is known that the State Institute is mainly relying on what is done in the framework of the energy policy led by the second Commissioner, Mr Etinger. On several occasions, I have asked the government ministers here how the government plans to prepare primarily small and medium-sized enterprises. Here, in this section, there is also talk of, of course, state bodies, ministries, agencies for the possibility of withdrawing funds for defence purposes. In particular, as regards dual-use products, and in this context, I would like to point out, therefore, in preparation for the December summit, it is said that the Commission will support certain projects for a dual purpose. And in this context, which is on our agenda today, it also refers to research under the HORIZON 2020 programme for radiological detection. There is no other way but to continue to look for those involved in the Republic of Croatia because the weather is leaking, and we can't see, I don't see at least the activities on that plan that would actually prepare companies to apply for the funds tomorrow. 'Cause there's a race going on when it's all adopted, and the one who's ready to win is the one who's gonna win. What I am also interested in, which at least does not explain to me this law is the implementation of Article 7(8) on organisation and supervision, and the study of presence, testing of species and the intensity of ionising radiation in the environment and food. I'm here to say that the eye, in fact, I didn't see in that list of implementing acts doing that function of the state office. And I note that there is a very intense legislative activity in the EU under the plan, so that the Commission has already adopted a number of food-related draft decisions, animal food, basic safety standards, for the presence of radioactive materials, or substances in water, and so on. Given that this is a legislative process that takes time, I think it is important that we do not wait for what the big deal is and what will decide already to participate actively in these discussions and that we especially Anticipat solutions because it is not a great philosophy to legally adapt and withdraw any means that can be available there. And the next thing I would also point out here also relates to Article 7 of point 15, where it states that the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security is monitoring the state of security of nuclear power plants in the region and carrying out a risk assessment of possible nuclear accidents in them, especially for Krško nuclear power plant in Slovenia and Pax nuclear power plant in Hungary. What I'm interested in is not mentioned in the institute, it's not a nuclear power plant, but the Institute of Nuclear Sciences, the sciences of Vinca, is from Belgrade. There's an accelatorial installation of Tesla that was ambitiously imagined 24 years ago. What I'm saying is, what I came up with from public sources, from the media, so for the finalisation, they need more than 10m euros that Serbia does not have, according to the recognition of the Ministry of Science. The Serbian Science Ministry decided in 2007 to stop funding and has since invested only 5m euros. With these 5m euros, a low energy part of the plant has been built up, and that is the only part that works. Now I'm interested in considering these responsibilities of the State Department if we follow the state of security and this institute because it's like these two nuclear power plants pretty close. Moving the grounded uranium, so-called The yellow Vinca cake to a safe location costs about a million euros, which is obviously not the same. Which means that, like the last 30 years, these radioactive substances will be deposited there in barrels in the basement of the institute building, and I remind you, it's the same public information, because of the crack in the pipe, that space was flooded and there's no money to resuscitate the building to the sources there. So, in conclusion, I think we see from these examples the need for better coordination between the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, as well as interested particularly legal persons, especially when we talk about the opportunities that are being opened to withdraw funds from the EU. Money in the EU is available but I am not sure that we have at all all all information on the possibility of withdrawing these funds, let alone being effective in this. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57347	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57348	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Director of the State Department. Let me start by saying that the SDP club will support the bill. It is, above all, the harmonisation of existing legislation with European directives with SEURAT 70 from 2011. We believe that the law is quite well-conceived and the newspaper it brings, brings them in an area that really needed to be regulated in one part of it, the part relating to nuclear, radioactive waste, and on the other hand should be regulated in a more quality manner by the independence of the regulatory body or the institution. Making a new law, not an example. The amendments and additions include the adoption of a large number of sublegal acts but it does not necessarily have to be bad, it is good that the existing ones are in some way updated and purified. We find it extremely good that article 80 of the existing law has seen major changes. The above article speaks of inspection in the first degree carried out by the State Institute and that is good, so nothing is changed in that sense, but the same article also speaks of the Sanitary Health Ministry inspection as inspection in the second degree. This is actually an eclectic example of conflict of interest because the Ministry of Health is conducting inspection surveillance of the sources of radioactive radiation that it owns. So, it's actually inadmissible, we warned on that I remember very well in the previous debate a few years ago when the law was passed. This is exactly the kind of solution that we now have in the existing law was the reason for the European Commission's objections, but also by the International Atomic Energy Agency. It was they who pointed out that the Ministry of Health is in fact in a direct conflict of interest in the current legal solution. We therefore welcome this legislative solution because we hold that it ensures the full and necessary independence of the regulatory body or the institution. Another important issue that this law deals with is the storage and disposal of radioactive waste. This is a really big problem and I agree with my predecessor who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, this is a major problem that poses a security risk to human health and the risk to the environment. We haven't really had a regulated waste storage issue in 60 years. The problem of waste that is constantly being created through regular work of hospitals and industry, and we no longer have the right to ignore this problem because it will not disappear from itself. That problem exists objectively and will be there until we solve it. We have no right to leave that problem to future generations. Therefore, we welcome the formulation in Article 49(3), which says that the cause of radioactive waste must be ensured to avoid, to the greatest extent possible, the transfer of the burden of disposal to future generations. So even the law this time tried to prevent it in some way. We believe that this problem is finally being approached in a systematic way. The law stipulates that the Institute assumes the obligation to establish and drive such a facility. In other words, therefore, the problem of central waste storage is truly being created and is finally being resolved. What we also think is very good is that the law also provides for the adoption of a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste. It will actually be a strategically important document that will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament we hope very quickly in fact and must be quick because the strategy must be adopted by 1st August of next year. For reasons that I have previously cited, therefore, from the fact that there are significant improvements to the SDP club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57349	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57350	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Honorable deputy with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I start, I must say immediately that the HNS Club will, of course, support this law, and then at the very beginning, perhaps a little surprise that is such an important law that deals with such an important matter has caused only three debates on behalf of party clubs and only one individual debate. I'll be free to notice very likely because here it's hard to move away from the measure of things, and then it's not so attractive, and it's a very important problem. Perhaps one of the most sensitive laws that handles one of the most dangerous and sensitive substances that we have had in recent months at all, and perhaps this entire assembly. The issue of adopting standards prescribed by the EU acquis dealing with the problem of this technology and all the consequences that can arise from the use of this technology, whether it is the use of technology for medical purposes, whether it is the use of this technology in energy or military use, all countries with exceptional respect, especially all developed countries approach this problem. What a recent situation in Croatia may need to be commented on, so I will take this freedom, in 2011 and 2010, respectively, a law that is not of course in line with all that Europe has adopted on an up-to-date basis, so today we are in front of this law which we are passing by haste procedure in order to comply with this law with what Europe adopted in 2011 in its Council Directive and also with a number of other EU regulations covering this problem. What happened in Croatia? Croatia has allowed itself the luxury of not solving permanently and responsibly with an appropriate level of safety and precautionary issue of nuclear waste disposal, as well as by-products from the scope of this technology in medicine, for example what is a coincidence and the consequence of using X-ray techniques in hospitals and health institutions. Whenever the issue was opened in Croatia, then we sought any solution other than the right one, which is to adequately take care of our own waste. We fall into the ranks of those countries that think it's a duty to do it to someone else, and it's simply not real. And as time goes by, it becomes less and less real because it's a smaller and smaller number of countries that are ready at a high price to accept something like that from their neighbors or someone else. Croatia, of course, like all other world countries, uses this technology and has to use it, it is the result of the progress of civilization, it is the result of growing energy needs, there are fewer and fewer other resources from which we can draw our energy needs. Croatia is co-owner of one of the nuclear power plants in Europe in neighbouring Slovenia and Croatia has clear obligations. When it tried to do something on Peter's mountain, I don't want to take the right to judge myself if I'm not an expert in that area, which would be a solution allegedly to take care of, it rose in the country of alerts. When Ruđer Boskovic tried to do something at the Institute for the purposes of the institute, the alarm went up again. I allow, perhaps the alarms and were necessary and justified because this should certainly be cautious, but we have always sought solutions in improvising and dissipating problems from our own backyard. This law, fortunately, brings us finally into a position to start taking over as a responsible country of our commitment and to take care of our real problems and to act in a responsible manner in such sensitive areas. This law, among other things, also provides for the establishment of a council for radiological nuclear security, which should be the main advisory body of the Assembly, and I guess when this council is formed, we will probably have opportunities to pay attention to this issue, because it is a surprising little interest to discuss such an important area. This law also provides for the resources to be provided in the state budget for the establishment of a central warehouse for the storage of radioactive waste. This is except for the formal things that are most important in this law, except that through this law we are equating ourselves in the standards of access to this problem, which is perhaps, for me and for us in the HNS, the most important decision, which is that finally following the standards of those who have so far been at a higher level than us who are absolutely fine, most developed, technologically most developed countries, and we do what we are obliged to do to remove any dilemma about the security of our own citizens, in order to remove the dilemma of whether we will adequately take care of the environment and to act as responsible and to neighbouring countries in the right way towards this important problem. Since this is the formal framework of the start of the systematic, complete and responsible behaviour of the Republic of Croatia but coupled with the most responsible and most developed countries, I certainly welcome this. We can no longer allow ourselves to belong to the order of those countries that will board unwanted waste into metal barrels or barrels, board it on some kind of ship of suspicious flags and suspicious looks and let that ship sail somewhere on the high seas and then slowly put those barrels in international waters. If we were in line by now, I would not take the right to re-judge, but I would not remove that suspicion. If we are, to the shame of those responsible who have politically removed responsibility from themselves, and if we are not then cap down because in such a messy system, this kind of improvisation worked in an appropriate way. Thank God, by accepting the legal property of the European Union in this area, we will be classified in order of civilised and responsible people. For this reason, the HNS welcomes this law and will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57351	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57352	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Baranovic that we are a country that needs to find a place to dump nuclear waste, but I do not understand one of the findings you said, which is that there was a riot when something tried on Ruđer Boskovic. Well, colleague, you know that Ruđer Boskovic is in the city center, that it is possible for a seismologically unstable area, that low radiological waste can be stored there, but not any landfills, and the International Atomic Energy Agency also defines exactly what kind of dump may be. It is therefore a storage area, not in a populated and traffic area. Here I am asking you nicely if I misheard it when you mentioned that there was a riot when something tried on Ruđer Boskovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57353	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57354	Dear colleague Bonačić, I don't think you've heard me completely. I said I'd let those riots be completely justified. I do not take it as my right to judge whether this initiative and this attempt were acceptable or unacceptable because we are not in line with atomic energy experts and in the field of radioactivity, radiology and similar disciplines. But I think I've rightly found out that we've been trying to do improvisations in an area where improvisation is not acceptable, in which improvisations are inadmissible and that so far we've been among the order of countries that can't really explain how they've taken care of and solved this properly. Maybe we were paying dearly, and maybe part of it was paying for something cheaper, but it went in a way that wasn't acceptable. And did we ever, as a society, wonder where our barrels or barrels ended up, that fine welded black from movies that board the ugly freighter under the flag of exotic land and then that freighter goes somewhere? As a Member State of the European Union, as a European country that belongs and wants to belong to Western civilization, we cannot afford ourselves any more improvisation in this area, and therefore we are satisfied and personally as a representative and we in the HNS that a law that in such a comprehensive way follows European standards in this area is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57355	And we're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague, Đurjica Plancic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57356	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The matter regulated by the proposed law is now regulated by the law adopted by this House in 2010 and meeting the criteria and directives of the European Union needed for the closure of Chapter 15. Energy, which concerns strengthening the administrative capacity in the field of nuclear safety and protection against ionising radiation, and the adoption of the National Strategy for Radiological Waste Management and Exhausted Radioactive Fuel. The proposed law further regulates security and protection measures against ionising radiation, and is in line with the new Council of Europe Directive 2011/70 EUROATOM which entered into force in August 2011 and refers to the establishment of a Community framework for responsible and secure disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. In addition to compliance with this Directive, definitions under previous Directives have been further harmonised. But what is particularly important to us, this law lays the basis for addressing the problem of the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources of spent nuclear fuel that has not yet been solved in our country. In this law, the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security assumes the obligation to establish and... the warehouses of radioactive waste, and the law regulates the way in which it is financed by the construction of that warehouse and the disposal operations. Since this issue is now not specifically regulated, this is sufficient reason for the law to support what I will personally do. However, what motivated me to apply for the debate is to look at this law from the point of view of patients. I'm not quite sure he's in direct contact with this law, but I'm still going to make my observation or a concrete proposal, even for the making of a rulebook. The law prescribes the protection of persons who are professionally exposed to radiation as well as the procedure for examining the source of radiation, which is certainly necessary and good while the protection measures of persons exposed to medical radiation will be prescribed by the Director of the Institute in cooperation with the Minister of Health. The sources of radiation are as we all know X-ray, mammographic devices, accelerant for diagnostics and therapy, CT and PET CT devices. It should be mentioned that only one scan of the patient's CT device makes it look like it's done 400 X-rays of the lungs. We have strict regulations to record the lungs, yet many people avoid it because of the risk of radiation. I don't know if it's a far more dangerous search for a CT device. At the same time, we are witnessing that the number of diagnostic tests via the CT device is on a steady rise. I know from my personal experience that there is a particularly endangered group of patients who are getting bigger every day, and these are patients of the Department of Nuclear Medicine who, due to specific therapy, are often in a very short period of time irradiated by large doses of radioactive iodine, so large that they are dangerous for some time for their environment, because it is actually a standard treatment method. We also all know that maximum human radiation limits have been established at a certain time interval that should not be exceeded to avoid jeopardizing its health. In our health care system, no one controls or records the amount of radiation in a patient. Patients are uncontrollably referring to various radiation-containing tests. People are increasingly and self-initiately accessing different searches, systematic examinations and videos. Most of these treatments are not dangerous to happiness, but they are not excluded from overdosing the maximum dose of radiation, thus jeopardizing health, or even patients may have doses. In my opinion, any patient should know how much... receive on each radiological search and should have a record thereof. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The health care system should find some way to record all radiation that individual patients receive in different medical treatments throughout their lives. Here's what it was like when we had books to vaccinate our children. I will take advantage of the opportunity and ultimately appeal to the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Department of State to consider this proposal as well as to continuously take measures to ensure the continued education of medical staff handling such appliances, but also patients themselves, for their greater protection and prevention of malignancies in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57357	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll be voting on the bill in a minute. And I'm asking you at 12:00 to come to the hall because we're doing a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-15-0.u57358	Final proposal of the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 501. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee has been accepted by the applicant and has become an integral part of the final draft law, so I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the adopted Radiological and Nuclear Security Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues of club breaks, the club sessions have expired. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I call on the president of the Social Democratic Party Club of Honored counterpart Igor Dragovan to state the position of the club.
