ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54961	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We will continue with the session and we will discuss - Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2012 The Annual Report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency on the basis of Article 30. The law on the protection of competition. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. On behalf of the applicant, the report will explain the introduction of Mr Mladen Cerovec, vice-president of the Competition Protection Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54962	Thank you. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs. The 2012 AZTN report is the 16th annual report that this institution has submitted to the Croatian Parliament since the beginning of its work in 1997 for adoption in accordance with the Competition Protection Act. The Agency’s competence and tasks under this law concern the protection of competition between entrepreneurs. In particular, it is the responsibility to establish prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs, to determine abuse of the ruling position and to assess the permitted concentration among entrepreneurs and to give opinions on laws and other regulations. In addition to these four, let us call them that, traditional areas which make up the backbone of the activity of the competition body, the agency was responsible for State aid control in the Republic of Croatia until 1 July of this year. In particular, the Agency was responsible for the approval and supervision of the implementation of State aid and for the recovery of aid granted or used against aid regulations in all sectors other than agriculture and fisheries. In this segment, the agencies worked very closely with donors and support recipients and submitted a special annual report on state aid to the Croatian Parliament. Such a wide list of competencies meant a very demanding and comprehensive job for an agency that had 53 employees in the previous 2012 period. Between our other activities and independent of our obligation to submit work reports in this High House and this report, we have tried to describe our work in a way that brings our activities closer to all public authorities, entrepreneurs and to the most professional public. Let me therefore, on behalf of the Agency, share with you several basic features of this report, i.e. the work of the Agency in the past 2012. In the past year, the agency resolved a total of 395 cases, which represents a slight increase compared to the previous year. Of these, 259 items were from the scope of the Competition Protection Act and 136 from the scope of the State Aid Act at the time. It is worth pointing out here that the increase in the number of cases solved has been achieved with fewer employees, in particular with 53 employees compared to 57 in 2011 and with the ultimate rational use of funds from the state budget and the successful withdrawal of funds from the European aid programmes. In the field of competition, we have managed to strengthen implementation in cases that have the most significant negative effects on competition and consumers, in particular with the establishment of a legal framework that is fully in line with the law of the European Union's competition. In this way, through the creation of awareness among entrepreneurs about the need to comply with rules on the protection of competition, we have affected the change in their behaviour on the market. The agency acted in two ways. In some cases, in particular, the Agency acted in a preventive manner and by re-establishing competition without giving rise to administrative and punitive measures among entrepreneurs, profiling the adoption of rules of conduct and further developing a culture of competition. On the other hand, where this was, given the circumstances of the case, we had to impose administrative-punishment measures. As already mentioned above, according to her previous practice, the agency has given a detailed description of some significant items in this annual report. We note that such an approach is in addition to the fact that it is in the service of the approximation of the Agency’s tasks and these highly complex substances have an effect on all stakeholders and general prevention, i.e. the deterrence of all entrepreneurs from violating the rules on competition. For example, in the section on prohibited agreements, the disclosure and punishment of a cartel agreement in the public liner transport market of passengers and the specific linear transport of primary school pupils in road transport in Međimurje County, as well as cartels in the manufacturing and sale of bakery products in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, is particularly highlighted. However, in order to bring the way the agencies operate in practice, there are also cases where and after very extensive, legal and economic analysis, the agreed behaviour of entrepreneurs was not possible to prove. These are examples of alleged coordinated action by entrepreneurs in the telecommunications sector, alleged agreement between bidders in public competitions and the like. Since cartel agreements are the behaviours of entrepreneurs that result in the greatest direct damage to consumers. Disclosure of such agreements between direct competitors such as the price agreement, market-sharing agreement and similar sanctioning, and will remain at the heart of the Agency's activities in the future. In 2012, for the first time in the procedures of the prohibited agreements and the abuse of the ruling position, the Agency applied the Institute of Acceptance of the Obligation to implement certain measures and conditions which are self-initiatively proposed by the entrepreneur against whom the proceedings are being conducted. The purpose of this is to remove rapidly and efficiently the negative effects of the behaviour of a particular entrepreneur on competition. This institute is known and often used in competition law. Ratio’s relatively frequent use in the fact that, through such a form of self-binding by entrepreneurs, of course, only in cases where fair competition can be applied to, at the same time, re-established, while reducing the costs of the process and liberating the Agency’s resources to engage in new cases. This annual report details examples of the application of this institute, for example in a case related to the distribution market and repair of laboratory equipment in the case of external advertising, and in a case related to technical assistance services to road drivers. The 2012 concentration area marked the decline in the total number of applications. Although the procedures themselves were smaller and in this part of the report a comprehensive demonstration of the Agency's activities in the area was given. However, in order to bring the concentration control problem closer to the public, the Agency has published instructions on its website to report the concentration with a link to relevant regulations and materials relating to the obligation to report the intention to implement the concentration. By the way, since it is now the end of October, we mention that in 2013 there was an increase in the number of reports of concentrations. It certainly speaks in favour of reviving economic activity in these areas. However, given the fact that there is now a concentration between entrepreneurs of relatively large market power at the same time, we can conclude that the financial and economic crisis has resulted in a consolidation of the market that is heading towards reducing the number of market competitors and creating large or larger economic systems, which, of course, puts new challenges ahead of the agency. In terms of our legal power to advocate the advantage that competition between entrepreneurs brings to consumers, we point out that the Agency is and continues to act educationally and preventively during this reporting period. In particular, by monitoring the process of liberalisation and conditions in individual markets where regulations or acts of interest associations restrict or prevent market access, the Agency has taken action to remove barriers to market access to new competitors. This, in particular, through the opinion of legal and regulatory solutions, for example in the field of energy or telecommunications, but also in over a hundred indications and answers to all those who have referred their questions or doubts to the Agency. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the importance of assessing the impact of competition regulations initiated by the Agency, as well as the application of the impact test on the competition market, which is available on its website as well as on all relevant decisions by the Agency. Last 2012 they also marked enhanced preparations for new commitments and jobs brought to the agency by Croatia's EU membership. First of all, we are thinking about moving to a direct application of the EU acquis with parallel application of national legislation. It is a substance change that can be "rarely commended by the national public authority in Croatia" under quotes. In order to ensure that the competition protection system in Croatia is fully harmonised and incorporated into the European competition as of 1 July of this year, the Agency and the Croatian courts could apply the acquis directly in 2012 and actively participated in the implementation of the amendments to the amendments to the legislation both in the field of competition protection and in the area of state aid. In this context, this report describes some new jobs that the agency receives by joining the EU as Croatia becomes part of the single internal market. In this context, the international cooperation activities of the Agency, with particular emphasis on the full implementation of the Agency's involvement in the work of the bodies and working groups of the European Competition Protection Body. It is an obligation of the Agency to cooperate with the European Commission, as well as with all competition authorities of the Member States. This cooperation includes, among other things, almost daily exchanges of information in cases that have been launched, as well as the creation of common solutions in the creation of an EU competition policy. Finally, regular sectoral market research should not be forgotten in the field of competition. Thus, during 2012, the Agency collected and processed extensive documentation on the interrelationships of trade chains and their suppliers. The survey covered the most significant trade chains and the most significant suppliers by different categories of goods such as bread suppliers, pasta, meat, container products, beverages, etc. In addition to contracts between trade chains and suppliers, the documentation collected included data on commercial and financial conditions in the relations between traders and suppliers, including sales prices, various types of fees, rebates, bonuses, stimulations, etc. As already known at this time, the Agency has launched a series of procedures during this year to examine the possible negative effects of certain provisions of these contracts on competition. In the area of the application of the State aid rules for 2012 it could be said that the year of the gradual transition from the business of granting supervision of the implementation of state aid in Croatia to the new competences of the agency related to EU membership was a year. Namely, in 2012. In the area of state aid, the agency solved about 42% more cases than in the previous year. Thus, the total number of opinions, indications and instructions given by the Agency from 57 increased to 99 in 2012. In particular, the consultative role of the Agency was expressed in the preparation of the support programme, i.e. in giving opinions and interpretations to support providers in relation to the proper application of State aid rules. In other words, it is evident that, as EU membership approaches, support providers have started to pay greater attention to the proper application of the rules on the granting of support, which are, by the way, scattered or contained in more than 50 regulations governing this very complex legal matter. In 2012, a number of support for rehabilitation and restructuring, research and development, regional state support, support for culture, etc. In this area, the annual report comprehensively describes the individual examples and reasons of approval or, in some cases, the negative decisions taken by the Agency because of the non-compliance of the proposal with the State aid rules or because the resources in question were not considered State support. In addition to those activities and operations related to the procedures for granting control over the granting of support in 2012 as well as in previous reporting periods of the Agency's activities, the Agency's activities related to monitoring, keeping a record of State aid or collecting State aid data from all real and potential support providers in Croatia. The Annual Report on State aid for 2011 adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 15 February 2013 for the first time in its 7th session, analysed the support granted under the map of statistical regions in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, in this annual report available on our website, the Agency for the first time reported on the established model of monitoring the effects of the aid granted in 2011 with the aim of objective assessment of the efficiency of use, i.e. the use of budgetary resources and the effectiveness of achieving the objectives set for the aid granted. Furthermore, much of the activities since the conclusion of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union have been related to the creation of a list of existing support. The Agency, together with support providers on the one hand and the European Commission on the other, agreed on support programmes to be approved by the Commission and thus became an integral part of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union through that list. This means, in particular, that such support, without special approval from the European Commission, can be used until the expiry date. The report shall provide a full list of existing support. Opinions, indications, answers to questions and explanations provided by the professional service on requests and requests from the provider or user for support in solving specific cases and explaining the application of certain rules in State aid during 2012 are based on the 10-year experience of the Agency in this area. All of this strengthens the prevalent advisory role the Agency has received in line with the new State Aid Act of 2013 following EU accession. The date of the membership to monitor the allocation of state aid shall be the responsibility of the European Commission alone, not of the Competition Protection Agency. However, the new State Support Act also regulates the new powers and tasks of the agency in connection with the application process of the Commission's proposal for state support. It is about a new role of the Agency, it is about the role of the Agency in giving an opinion on the coherence of the support proposals excluded from the obligation of the European Commission to report on the provision of expert assistance to the donors in the preparation of the support proposals and reporting to the Commission on the state aid granted in Croatia. In this context, the law also regulates the Agency's co-operation with the Ministry of Finance in the domain of state aid. Therefore, not only do the Agency's activities in the area of support not stop but they dare say deepening and creating a new form of responsibility for the Agency. Finally, what is most valuable in the Agency should be mentioned in particular to people, a professional service that carries that responsibility in all areas of the Agency's activities for the Protection of Competition. Namely, their knowledge and experience acquired through continuous professional training is a prerequisite for the successful work of this institution in areas subject to continuous changes. It is about continuous changes in EU legislation through relevant decisions by European courts that become immediately applicable as part of the acquis. This is particularly important within the mentioned new competences of the competition agency. This is about the application of domestic legislation with parallel and direct application of the EU operating contract in cooperation with courts in the case of private actions, on ensuring uniform application of European law, on cooperation with the European Commission which is responsible for the application of European law and in Croatia when taking action on its own initiative. Let us not forget to mention extending the Agency's competence to the banking sector that took place on 1 July of this year, for which the Agency's professional service must also be prepared. Extending the powers and tasks of the Agency and of its employees for years is in reverse proportional relations with the funds provided in the budget for its work. This also results in a constant trend in leaving the agency, an outflow of knowledge that can be placed on incomparably better paid ones and I would say more esteemed business in the private sector, in other better-paid domestic regulators or in the European Commission bodies. The Competition Protection Agency, which, unlike some sectoral regulators, has no own income in the past 17 years, has somehow managed to cope with a budget too short. The Agency's budget in 2012 amounted to 18 million 631 thousand kuna, of which 13 million 554 thousand kuna were from the state budget, and the remaining 5 million and 77 thousand kuna came from the EU's IPA aid projects, detailed in Chapter 4 of this report. Despite all our difficulties, however, we are convinced that we can continue to carry out our new powers and tasks successfully. Such a belief is based on a criterion often used in assessing the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of such bodies, in which the competent courts confirm the legality of the Agency's decisions. The agency in 2012 also notes a positive trend in the light of 30 decisions of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and 13 decisions of local competent administrative courts on complaints against the decisions of the Agency. Of the total 43 actions brought in the scope of the Competition Protection Act in 38 cases, the courts confirmed the Agency’s decision, i.e. rejected the applicant’s action. Four lawsuits were dropped by local administrative courts as unlawful while one procedure in the area of state aid was suspended. So none of the charges filed have been respected. Finally, the Agency and its work is assessed by the European Commission. In a statement to the European Parliament and to the EU Council, it published the main findings from the comprehensive Monitoring and preparedness Report on Croatia's membership in the EU concerning the period from October 2011 to September 2012. A commendation that says it is an agency, I quote: "It is fully operational and functionally independent and that it carries out its tasks in accordance with the legislation that is in force for this agency to continue to believe that it is in its decisions and views on the right path. The aim of the Agency remains to confirm this year's report the effective application of market competition rules, including determined sanctioning against market behaviour of entrepreneurs, and to create and maintain equal conditions for all entrepreneurs regardless of their market power and other differences between them. In this way, everyone is given equal chances of success and thus an economic and institutional environment that will encourage entry into entrepreneurship and encourage innovation and new investment. We are convinced that the achievement of this objective, with further strengthening the effectiveness of the Agency, is possible only if the minimum resources for work are provided. This is also an appeal brought by Joaquin Almuni, vice-president of the European Commission in charge of competition several days ago, to the governments of the Member States. All of this is necessary in order to preserve the visibility, operational and functional independence and independence and work based on professional integrity and high expertise of employees of the Competition Protection Agency. I believe this House of the High recognized it and that the agency will support it in its further affirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54963	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in the debate is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54964	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Council with members of the board of agencies, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a Report from the Competition Protection Agency in 2012. The report can be said that it is extensively and thoroughly written on 150 pages. On the very text of the report Croatian Labour Laburists-Parties have no major objections because it covered all areas of the Agency's work and all relevant activity data in 2012. But I would like to stress that the Competition Protection Agency should play a very large and significant role in the development and protection of our country's economy. Our economy has been in huge difficulties for too long, we have no strategy, we have no vision of getting out of the crisis, nor the path to a better goal of its recovery. The World Bank's latest data on the operating conditions under which we fell to 89th instead of 189 countries, our government tried to portray it as a success. They want to talk only about those areas where a certain shift has been made, and in other areas where there are quite bad results they try to hide it in some way. I don't know which five-place drop could be a success. Keep your eye on everything that's wrong, and all that's good is good. It doesn't matter that everyone in the environment is better than us. We are only one place ahead of Albania, there is close to Serbia and all other countries in the environment are far better. So let's take a snail step while everyone else comes after us. I guess this government has a goal and a strategy to sell out everything that's a little bit of value, and when we get rid of it, we won't have any more worries. However, for the development of the economy, there is also a very important role to play in order to prevent any monopoly and to enable all entities to operate under the same or approximately similar conditions. Under its legal powers, the Agency should take measures and ensure the better functioning of the market for consumer entrepreneurs as well as the entire economy. However, do we have to ask ourselves whether the agency has done enough and achieved its legal role in these times of crisis? According to what we've heard from the agency or what we're seeing here, pretty good results are shown in this report. We know that some of the support went to those who didn't have a chance, and that's where politics forced its power and money was practically thrown into a well without a bottom. So I ask myself, was it possible without the aim and strategy of the agencies to play a better role in protecting competition and granting state aid? This question is difficult to answer, although the Agency's mission should be insurance and market action for the benefit of consumers, entrepreneurs and the overall economy. The Agency should help with its work in a better and more efficient competition for business operators in the competition. Its work and action should increase the level of competition rights and grant state aid. It should be an operational and independent body and remove any possibility of doubt when it comes to its objectivity and independence. But it's so hard to say because in public it's the impression that bigger players in our space are still untouchable. The main area of work of the Agency is the control of competition policy in order to prevent the dominant position on the market and ensure a better quality grant of state aid. In 2012, it was evident that the agency had completed a total of 395 items, which is about the same as the year before. Of these, 259 cases in the field of competition and 136 cases in the case of State aid. The job was done with 53 employees and according to data 4 less than the year before. I still haven't noticed anything in the report, and I think it's important. How many unsolved items are left for this year, if that's what? I think that the data should be included in the next time and we need to know what it is that's being transmitted for some future period. According to the data, and it was also said today that out of the 43 lawsuits brought on by the agency, the courts accepted 38 which is a very envious piece of information and for every commendation. While 4 cases have been dropped by the competent courts as unacceptable and only one procedure in the area of state support has been suspended. We can see from this data that none of the charges filed were respected, so it should be concluded that the agency's work was more than satisfactory. Therefore, I will refer only to a few cases in the report, such as the Agency’s discovery and sanctioning the existence of prohibited agreements, to the public liner transport of road passengers and to the specific liner transport of students as well as to the sale of bakery products in the Osijek-Baranja County for which administrative criminal measures have been imposed for the violation of the Law on the Protection of Competition, as they were the behaviour that has resulted in direct damage to consumers. But these are smaller entities, while on the other hand, with slightly larger and more influential companies such as VIPnet, HT, Tele2 says there has been no distortion of competition in the mobile networks of these operators. It is said that there is no evidence that, during a certain period of concerted action, they have changed accounting units for voice calls in mobile networks and have concluded a prohibited agreement at the expense of users. So far, in very rare cases, it has been reported that more powerful companies are found to be guilty of all actions and are predominantly experiencing less or weaker companies. And we all know that powerful players aren't really fair on the market but they know how to cover up their actions and we have nothing left to do but trust the agency in the correctness of its actions. No matter what a completely different picture and impression is obtained in public when State aid is given, I will refer to some of the data in providing state support. Such as that the Agency has approved support for the recovery of the Immunological Institute at the request of the Ministry of Health. The Authority has adopted a decision approving the rescue aid in the form of a State guarantee of 43 million kuna for credit debt to commercial banks for the settlement of the current costs and operations incurred. And what do we have today? The Immunological Institute is probably in the most difficult situation since the draft. After the decision of the Croatian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency to withdraw the permit for production of blood derivatives and bacterial vaccines. Today, the Institute is facing bankruptcy, which could have occurred in the event of a loss of authorisation. And such examples could be found much more like the Queen’s shipyard and where the practically money goes and is thrown into the well. In its activities, the Agency also contributed to 130 opinions on certain laws and regulations, as well as various indications and answers to public authorities and entrepreneurs. So we have 28 expert opinions and 102 indications and various answers, 40 of which are from the field of competition. The most common areas in which opinions are requested are the telecommunications sector, municipal services, the energy sector, the area of public procurement and postal services. We can conclude from this that these are the most sensitive areas, and special attention should be paid to them. For all this work, the agency spent 18.6 million kuna of which was revenue from the budget of 13.5 million kuna and aid 5.1 million kuna from the European Union funds for IPA projects. Although Croatia's entry into the European Union has some other powers in the areas of banking and has lost some competences. It should work and the present problem is that the presidents of the council have expired their mandate as well as some members and their choice should be made as soon as possible so that the Agency can work normally and work on the part for which it is prescribed jurisdiction in the law. Croatian Labourists like I said will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54965	Thank you. Replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54966	Thank you. Here's a respected colleague, you referred in the opening part of your presentation to this World Bank Report Doing Busniess as an example in which it is seen that Croatia is essentially not doing a good job, that it is essentially backward and not progressing. However, the data in this report do not exactly support your claim, as Croatia essentially improves its score score by 0.9 points from last year's 6,3.7 to 64.6 points from possible 100 points. The fact is that there has been a certain decline in the order is based on the fact that there are essentially more countries in the evaluation of the World Bank, and in addition, some countries have probably made a better score jump. On the other hand, some elements suggest that it was a much larger and larger leap than could be concluded. For example, Croatia is said to have advanced from 42 to 34th in terms of paying taxes because it has facilitated the payment of social contributions through the electronic system and has reduced detachment for forests and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So the facts say otherwise that nothing is done after all. The fact here and from this can be seen that there are certain results of the measures being taken. However, I would still like to point out, when you speak as laborists about the World Bank Report, I must point out that in this report one of the main parameters is flexibility... legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore preferable to implement the Fahrenheit policy to release labour as easily as possible, to make the system that regulates labour as flexible as possible. Do you advocate that, if yes, surely that would help to make this grade much better next year... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54967	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54968	Thank you. You're a fellow Pandek. I'll start with this last thing you said. Of the ten issues that are valued and where Croatia falls for five places, no mention of the dismissal of workers is mentioned, this is what you were talking about. We can talk about other World Bank positions, but not about this evaluation. So that's not what I'm talking about, that's what you put that story on yourself. And the other thing, it's about ten areas that are being monitored, five areas are making some progress, the other five areas are lagging behind. The total backlog is down by five places. I don't know if your five-place drop could be a success, and I said we're gonna take a snail step, others outrun us, others are better, and if we keep this up, we're gonna have an even bigger fall as much as we're boasting that it's still a success. No, it's not a success, it's still a fall because the fact fifth place further is a worse result.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54969	And Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54970	Dear Vice President. Comrade Tušak, here I would just like to raise myself to two or three questions. You mentioned the market for telecommunications services, the postal services market, and you mentioned shipbuilding. You said it wouldn't be convenient to actually miss out and that only great players get what's supposed to happen, which means that the means of support is what we call "great players". Well, here's what I could do with you two or three things. Look, we have a restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding within which there is more or less successfully restructured shipbuilding, but I know that this can be strictly divided because we know where it works, where production is launched and there are still adequate means for restructuring or for support in shipbuilding in this next cycle. We also know that the postal services market, that it is quite messy in relation to the market for telecommunications services and the report also mentions the Law of Post which is very relative and which ultimately mentions some replacement postal services and other things, and in fact there we have a clean battle between two operators and a national market-losing operator. And here I think even, but it's not the subject of this report, there's some kind of application against the national operator for the unfair match, but it's going to be the subject of the next report. But the fact is, that's what the data says, but we'll probably talk about it in another report. On the third hand, the market for telecommunications services. So we witnessed here in this house that there was talk of multiple price reductions. The fact is, that's not the case yet, and it hasn't happened yet. Here's what I'd like for now, 'cause I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54971	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54972	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, I'm glad you're completely okay with it, and I agree with you on this discussion. I'd just like to clarify one question when we're talking about restructuring. I only tried to set an example when part of the money and guarantees were given for restructuring, and these money simply went to waste because there was no restructuring but the company ended up in bankruptcy. Then it's practically a waste of money. These restructuring money could be used better and better to ensure better conditions for this business and even new employment, a new incentive. The worst thing is when we talk about restructuring, and part of that money simply has no use for restructuring, but these companies fail. And clearly, when we talk about telecommunications that then they're too big and strong players and it's very hard to prove when and something and agree on what they might suspect, but I'm here trying to tell the perception of the public who feels in some way that it's powerless to fight those strong players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54973	On behalf of the Club, HRS representative counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54974	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the agency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A few words and comments regarding the content of this report, but of course I also did the work of this agency on behalf of the HNS Club. Reading this report, I was given the impression that one of the more legible ones that I have had these two years of mandates is to read and in which it is very systematicly drawn up which is actually an agency, to which the laws are referred, which are its basic tasks and in which it is very detailed even to the level of an individual case as soon as all the agencies have dealt with this period for which the report is submitted. Of course, data on the financial costs for the Agency's work, how many employees, which is the structure of employees, how many cases have been solved, and then when you read it, it's a bit of an impression that the amount of 18 million kuna is actually quite a serious sum for items that can table in just a few pages of the report. But not knowing enough laws and details don't get me into it, nor do we judge the quality of individual solutions. A colleague of the previous speaker pointed out the solutions in which the sentences were imposed, and that is what the eyes are, as well as the solutions in which the penalties or initiatives have been rejected, according to an expert statement. So we have the opportunity to read in this report that several bakers have been punished in Osijek County and that the association of craftsmen or the Association of craftsmen Osijek has been punished by 50,000 kuna. So we have a chance to read that several bus drivers in Međimurje County are also being punished. We have the opportunity to read that the reports were filed against the so-called so-called. The big players were rejected for lack of evidence. We take no right at all, nor do I have the ambition to judge whether there was evidence or not, and I want to believe that the professional services of the agencies and the bodies that handle the cases have done their professional work. So I will not enter into the sin of doing, but I will open the question of sin inconceivable, I will open the question of what the agency has failed to do in both this and the past years by refering to one piece of information that is very likely to know every other adult citizen of this country, which is the agreed price of the purchase of wheat in the Republic of Croatia from the kuna and five limes, and then when you look at the definition of the cartel, then the question is whether it was arranged by the cartel or by the case and the will of God. This is information that opened television diaries and radio news, all weeks, all daily newspapers in the Republic of Croatia have bombed us for days about the fact that the established price of wheat for Croatian farmers is zero five. It's just that in the working papers, the news wasn't coming out, maybe I didn't check it out. And then when you enter this document and you see that the agency has and the basis of the official duty to initiate the procedure I am now in this Parliament in front of the Croatian People's Party not only as its representative on behalf of the party, but also as a representative of Croatian citizens, including, of course, Croatian farmers, asking an open question to you ladies and gentlemen whether you have committed a sin of inaction, whether you should react with the clear information that the price agreed among the wholesalers is one kuna and five limes. Is there an institution in this country that protects the small, which protects the weak, which protects those who are powerless against the monopoly in the economy when it comes to competition, your role as legally defined function is quite clear and it is very logical to conclude that the opposite of these several bakers in Osijek-Baranja County you failed your exam here. I'd like to be denied later in the final address or after my presentation, to make arguments that my assessment and evaluation of my party colleagues is wrong, but I'm afraid you won't be able to do that. And I open the question to the broad professional public in the Republic of Croatia and the general public to assess whether in this case it has been damaged, i.e. brought into an unfavourable position in the context of competition and normal business, whether a huge number of Croatian citizens, Croatian farmers who then searched for all their anger on the one who has no mechanisms to influence the price, and this is the resolution minister, and then the resolution minister is Pedro who stands to hang, he is guilty of everything. And clearly it's not the job of a resolute minister to get involved in a competition, but it's the agency's job to react to such things and initiate the procedure. How did you get the price from the kuna and the five limes? The issue of the purchase of milk in the Republic of Croatia? 2 kunas and 40 limes. I'm throwing out numbers like a gunman. Why? Because they're completely clear, no one's even hiding them. Clear or hidden cartels work completely transparently without any problems. In Poland the price of milk 0.37... much bigger than in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All previous years were much lower than in Croatia or at best equal. It's much bigger now. And then, of course, my colleague Milinkovic here is already raising the plate because it's probably now priced and dropped according to the deal, according to the agreement and not those agreements that are seen from the plane, not from the land of the lady and gentlemen no one reacts, absolutely no one. It may sound vain, but it seems to me that this is the first public reaction of this kind in the Croatian Parliament, at least I didn't notice. I may be allowing someone on the same subject some year ago to react in a term of office. Because this agency has had the task for many years from the date of its establishment. And from the clearly defined legal powers and tasks she has. Did she ever do that in the event of years of bargaining for the ransom price of wheat? Has she ever punished one of the big ones before? That's the answer to the HNS club question. I don't think so. I may be wrong, but it certainly isn't in this area. Because if this job had started to work when this anomaly could be seen in the functioning of the agricultural and agricultural products sector, then it would have been very likely to change habits over the years, and the fact is that they haven't changed. So there were no conjectures for what was happening. Since this report on what seemed to be very transparent, it is very correct that we at the HNS Club will support this report as such as this very definitely. Personally, I don't know if I'm going to raise my hand for it, but one thing you should be convinced, ladies and gentlemen, about the HNS Club, and especially me, as the parliamentary representative of all the citizens of this country, I'm going to pay great attention to the quality of your work, and I'm going to refer to myself outside the context of a one-year report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54975	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54976	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Baranovic, I welcome your debate and I'm glad you spoke within the price of wheat. Of course you've touched the price of milk. You also said that you were a representative and a farmer, and surely in the past elections you received significant support from the agricultural population. But they hit their heads against the wall after that. Because your reaction today is absolutely acceptable, but it's too late. I've warned countless times in this House of Highs about these circumstances of what's happening to agriculture now, what's going on with farmers. But I will repeat again, although Regulation 261 of the EU says it is necessary to ensure the development of farmers and adequate agricultural production. I've also warned about what's going on, the number of OPGs that have failed, 4.5 thousand OPGs, the number of cows on forced slaughter over 40,000. So it can't be restored regardless of the price of milk. The price of milk falls, the price of meat falls. All these are the consequences of one policy towards the village simply astoundingly destroying the peasants, which has led to agriculture and your reaction is unfortunately delayed, so concern and concern for the peasants. I believe it should have taken a long time to intervene, and when this ship fell so far from all the areas I'm afraid it's hard to bring it back again after this disaster that happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54977	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54978	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Milinkovic, you have well noticed that I am from this profession and I immediately estimated when we arrived on this stranded ship that you have so neatly stranded that it will be a very nasty job. As for support, I was quite unknown to farmers when I entered professional politics, but I did not. We're falling into the same sector. And as for whether it's too late or not, when someone reacted to a colleague, Milinkovic, you've had a long time to react to this and you haven't achieved a very great situation. Therefore, do not engage in mud on people who have received a completely messy sector, unprepared for what was waiting for him in 2011, or 2013. It's a completely messy sector. These are the habits that were made in your time, colleague Milinkovic. Unfortunately, it's up to us to change them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54979	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54980	Dear counterpart Baranovic, we fully agree this time, so I can say in the smallest details except in one detail. You said you never talked about it in the Parliament. Similarly, not the same, I spoke last year when we talked about the report. And another disagreement, we don't adopt, I don't understand when we have a report this text, we adopt what it says in the text or the work of the agency because only these letters that are printed inside are by me, I agree with you, they're fig leaves. We don't have a competition agency, we don't have a competition, we don't have a market. The agency should be afraid and trembling but fear and trembling is Ivica Todoric and similar to him. And they regulate the market. And they dictate how the Competition Protection Agency will work. Great players in Croatia meet in the basements, and they influence how the market will be regulated. Yes, Mr. Baranovic, the price of wheat has been agreed, all prices are being agreed. Remember again when the news prices agreed, when the transcripts of various messages broke, when the biggest players on the market negotiated prices and we are talking about freedom of competition. The telecommunications operators are all in agreement. So it's a lie about the market, it's a lie about freedoms and remember only last year I was talking about how big chains are blackmailing Croatian producers. Are they complaining to the Competition Agency? They don't dare because they're dead, they're not on the shelves of the big shops, they're put away if they object, they're removed if they're asked to pay their bills in time, and let alone complain, they're gone. The agency doesn't sanction it, the agency doesn't even discuss it because manufacturers know that the agency is just a fig leaf and I think it should get a negative, super-negative rating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54981	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54982	Dear colleague Vukšić, I do not sneak around the basements and count who is meeting where I am, but in this address to the Croatian Parliament in this House of Higher Education, I referred to facts that are completely familiar. And I'm sure before we entered this debate, we did a poll on the entrance among the parliamentary representatives what the price of wheat was this year so that everyone would know that it was kuna and five limes. But everyone, even the one whose agriculture is last in the spectrum of the topics they deal with. This also clearly indicates all the contents of the newspaper articles that followed and commented that there were elements at least to deal with it. Not prejudicially, something may have happened by accident, but the point of the problem is that it didn't even try. And as a representative, I repeat all the citizens of this country and my party, of course, and I insist on my own conscience that this agency becomes truly what was planned during its establishment, which is to be God and the beating and fear and shivering when it comes to correctness in the competition and not just the mere fulfillment of European form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54983	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54984	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed Deputy President of the Council with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Competition Protection Agency only says the name should therefore ensure and ensure that a regular competition is held in our area. We have long been defined as a market company and, of course, it should be done first of all so that any entrepreneur would not be put in a favourable position compared to the other but should, first of all, do so in the end because not market behaviour, i.e. the privileged behaviour of one of the entrepreneurs would not lead to the most favourable position of the citizens, i.e. consumers who ultimately pay for it all. And in that sense, more needs to be watched by the agency's action and work as far as it deals with this ultimate effect, not just by how much it provides for a regular match between entrepreneurs. Of course, the agency was founded to ensure the smooth functioning of the market, however, to support it with its work and to contribute to making this a market game as high as possible and better. But I say you should take care not only of that part narrow but also of this other part. Of course, in its work above all, the Agency must deal with what is its legal activity, and its activity is based on two laws, the Competition Act and the State Aid Act, so as to prohibit or ensure that the prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs so-called. cartels, but I will talk about this later, that there is no abuse of the ruling position of a subordinate, and also that it leads the cancers on the limits of the permitted concentration in a particular activity, that it takes care of the support for the effectiveness of the state support to be given. Of course, there is a very important and advisory role of the agency and also educational to meet citizens, entrepreneurs, anything else that is allowed which is not to happen as little as possible in the practice of what is not allowed. When we look at the very figures on the agency's work, we can really be satisfied here, and we will support this report absolutely. It is apparent that the agency has continued to work in the last few years, that mainly the figures are about 350-accessed cases, but what is more important and as far as the quality of work is concerned, which is that of all the complaints I think were 43 which were filed... solutions or decisions of the agency that none of them were respected so that they were all rejected, this means that the agency did its work in that part both professionally and based on the law and it really has to be recognised. What you can't see from this report is, therefore, how many cases have been solved, but you can't see how many unsolved. Whether there are cases that have not been solved or long waiting, therefore it is normal that there are always unresolved items that are the result of normal daily dynamics, so whether there are objects that stand for a long time, whether there are objects that are not solved or not solved in a short and reasonable period of time from this report we do not see, and I hope that in the future, this report should take account in the future. It is very good that the Agency has introduced its newsletter in electronic form where all relevant information relating to its work and, in general, to the protection of the markets is published and this is good and because of the transparency of work and also because the public is aware of the protection of competition. Here we see and the number of measures are mentioned, but what we don't see, and of course it's hard to see what's not going to say to the agency's soul, but I warn of the problem that these figures would not only be satisfied that the situation is really in the state of competition with us ideally that there are no bigger problems. In fact, there is always a question of how many violations of competition the agency has not seen, which no one has filed, the agency itself. Now that's the problem that's far bigger than what this agency has done. What the agency has done is really all correct and good, but is the market situation really the same as seen in this report? You know, I'm gonna take an example from all of us in health care. Says one doctor very little funny, says there are no absolutely healthy people only there are unsightly ones. It's kind of a situation here and so it's all been examined, do we have an insight into everything? Surely we do not have certain violations without simply being recorded or not known for them. In this sense, the educational action of the agency should be even more because often citizens and entrepreneurs are better informed than citizens and do not know what is allowed which is not, so things just go away besides people not knowing that they might not have been able to do so. Therefore, the educational work of the Agency is important because when acting educationally also acts preventively. From these examples we had, I'm sure some of them wouldn't have signed agreements if they knew it was forbidden but simply went naively into it they didn't know it was forbidden, if they knew of course they wouldn't have done it. So I'm talking about this educational action, but on the other hand, it's the result of some violations simply and the result of uninformedness. The report mentioned a number of examples in the context of the banned agreements, etc. the cartels, therefore, agreeing on arrangements between entrepreneurs where sales prices are generally agreed, which is certainly not allowed, market sharing, etc. and there are examples of public carriers in Međimurje, agreements on the price of bread in Osijek, etc. I say they did it because I'm convinced they didn't know it was forbidden so they did it. But where's the problem? A little better or bigger corporations have great lawyers and they know what's allowed, which they don't, and they won't because they're not crazy to do it, but in any other way, they'll formally see it played out. There is a major problem to prevent a negative match happening. Because what's the problem? If someone makes a deal, for example. about the sale price of 2, 3 entrepreneurs 5 or doesn't matter and make an agreement about it if it's a cartel and it's a violation of the game, it's an irregular game play. And then the agency reacts... But what if there's an agreement or an agreement that's oral that's been arranged somewhere for a drink, somewhere written and practically implemented. There she is, I'm afraid, the agency I don't know is powerless or powerful, but these are more frequent cases of violations than these when they're written and when they're implemented through an agreement. This is of course hard to prove, but surely it does. We have even an interesting example here and there is a lot of space in the Agency's report, it's about operators, mobile operators, VIPs, HT and TELE2 and where the agency has studied the case of their prices, new services, etc. And all that after that 6% famous tax that was introduced to mobile phone operator services. And it's the agency's conclusion that there's no breach, there's no deal, there's no agreement, there's no association, there's no cartels, so they didn't negotiate on the market. Of course, because they did so very wisely, did not sit down, wrote an agreement that all would raise prices together and then raise the price afterwards. Or they're made the other way. By making one public announcement that they will do so, inform HACOM everything is fine, in accordance with the procedure, then after some time a month, two do the other and then do the third and so there is no association, there is no agreement, but the result is the same. The result is all the same, so if we want to be specific when it comes to our calf operators, their services to citizens and entrepreneurs are more or less the same as the egg. All of these services are very, very close, all of them, if you have something with one of them in which month you have it with the other, etc. And they are all, and it's not bad if they go, if they go hand in hand to citizens and entrepreneurs, however, the fact is that these services are enormously expensive. Let's look at all our own house awakes and see that our services are for one example. The four-member family where adults are, where all the phones have that these services are more cost-effective to us than any other directorial costs, than water, electricity, garbage transportation, and everything else together is more expensive. Is that real? Of course not. Is it more important for people to live without electricity, water, garbage drains? He can't. And that pays less than the telecommunications service he didn't have until a year ago. Therefore, we also have expensive services that are not agreed on, but which eggs are all followed by each other and they are all expensive and we of course have to pay for it. And that's the problem, and that's the problem of injustice, what you would say, is not the problem when someone, the problem is whenever someone's pushing you or taking advantage of you, and the bigger the problem is when they're doing it legally. And here it's legal because there's no violation of the law, there's no agreement, but in some ways everybody's playing in their own way, they're looking for opportunities to get their hands on it, or how to stand up to it without breaking the competition, they're still actually in informal agreements and agreements. Most of these analysed cases we have in the report are mostly about when one entrepreneur reacts against another or more against the other, so mostly when entrepreneurs protect their interests which is legal, legitimate, and of course it's good that nobody gets cut off. However, there are citizens in the worst position because in this case nobody seems to be protecting them and they are generally not consulting and there they are in the situation I was talking about. I'm not going to talk much about the support and that part of the agency because we're going to have a support report soon, so there's going to be more opportunities. In any case, therefore, as far as the report itself is concerned, it is properly made and we will, of course, support it. He's quality. The agency's work must have been quality, professional, so we see that her decisions were not made by any court, no decision has been annulled. Therefore, they are founded. And that's good. However, if we don't get a conclusion out of this, well, we don't have to fix anything, we don't have to do any better. So I am warning these problems how we can come to a solution together, how these agreements that are not written, which do not exist anywhere on paper but in some ways work in life, some have spoken of former colleagues as regards the ransom price of milk etc.. As it is opposed to non-agreement and to the harm of consumers, to the detriment of citizens and not to the fact that it is not written and that, by public action, whether by warning etc., how to do so is ultimately fulfilled that purpose which is not only full of formal observation whether there is an agreement or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54985	Shimo Djurdjevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54986	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague Jelusic, in most cases, agrees with your report on behalf of the SDP Club but cannot agree in one segment when you talk about the competition. As far as our farmers are concerned, this and such game is not correct. If I've arranged for agricultural production, for example. The wheat and I get a five-person kuna, and I'm down 30% support, and I'm out. And the big one I've been bargaining with, with whom the Croatian farmer has contracted production, I have to pay for it in goods. That big warehouse, it's waiting for a moment when he'll take them out. And that's already exporting to the BiH per kuna 68 lipa. A third thing, an example of a sunflower. Last year's kilo of sunflower was 3.5 kuna, this year's kuna and 90. It's a sign I'm losing right now. And they're losing the little ones. They're losing and throwing them into debt slavery where they'll be able to repay those debts to those he's contracted to manufacture with in three to four years' time. So that and such a competition is not correct and I think the agency should react in these cases when it comes to agricultural products. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54987	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54988	Well, I agree with you, but the problem you're talking about unfortunately, that I'm not undermining, is not since yesterday. This problem persists for years and unfortunately the solutions were neither by the authorities nor by the agency, but it is always a problem that the smaller unprotected and is always public authority and anyone who has public authority and the agency has, should be on the side of the one who is less protected, who is weaker.... I therefore agree that this should be a solution, but of course agricultural producers and milk producers, etc. At this hour, they are condemned to a few of those whom they give their goods to, to whom they give their goods. But that's where we need to look for solutions, that's where we need to look for solutions. Why have we allowed for years, for decades, monopolies, two or three buyers of any milk, any wheat, so there's just no choice. Perhaps by entering the European Union now to open the choice a little bit so that in some ways those who have been in a monopoly position to lose that monopoly position because the opportunity may be a European market and the entry into the European Union that both our agricultural producers and milk producers are in a better position, but a position that will be equal to those in neighbouring countries. Because if they ask again to be more equal than others, then it will not again be competitive in the European market where we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54989	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54990	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support this report because we believe it was done well and that it actually reflects the Agency's work in the best possible way in the past year. Although there are details that we can discuss and open the debate, it is already open in particular in this part of agricultural support and protection, in fact, by consumers, as well as small producers. But generally I would go back a little bit and say that the role of AZTN was extremely important in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. It was of crucial importance, of course, in the closure of Chapter 8-market competition and as mentioned here in this report, thanks to the fact that a new Competition Protection Act was adopted on 24 June 2009. I dare say that the work of the agency founded in 1995, which began in 1997, was actually invisible until the beginning of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. It is only during this period that real tools and mechanisms are actually created that AZTN becomes visible in the Republic of Croatia and its role really comes into full importance, and in particular I say in the closure of Chapter 8. If the work of the agency had not been good, had it not been at the level of the European Union's expectations, we certainly would not have closed Chapter 8 and would not have concluded the negotiations, of course. Therefore, I must, in some way, give recognition to all those who have worked on this job and who have contributed to Croatia's entry into the European Union, so to the conclusion of this chapter 8. But in order for our citizens who are following our work to know what it is and what is really the goal of the agency, I will read one part that seems extremely important to all of us, and especially to our fellow citizens, and it seems to me that we should also talk about it, which is promoting the rights and policies of competition. Promoting competition is an important task of the agency. Simplifiedly, the basic objective is to meet public authorities, other institutions, entrepreneurs, professional and wider public on the importance of strengthening competition for increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, increasing its efficiency, economic growth and increasing employment. Strengthening competition culture and promoting awareness of the benefits it brings to consumers and taxpayers fair competition and control of the behaviour of entrepreneurs and states on the market is essential to achieve the objectives set out in the AZTN Work Programme for 2012 and 2013. In addition to the benefits that competition brings to consumers in the right of competition, this in a broader sense and all entrepreneurs found in the business chain once in this illusion, and not only end-users, strengthening the culture of competition means proactive action in the creation and achievement of a legislative framework which is the basis for the easier development of entrepreneurship, business policies of entrepreneurs based on authorised and justified forms of competition with their own merits, quality of products or services, choice and price, respecting regulatory framework rules but in a specific environment and general interest. I don't think these objectives of the agency are met enough after all. As far as they are fulfilled, as far as they have reached all the participants in the competition, and this is indeed the participants in the competition is a very broad concept, it is obvious regarding all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So there is still a lot of space where the agency itself should work, of course with the help of the media and of course with the help of us in the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it seems that further education of all in Croatia on competition would be an important help to all. And why am I saying that? Because in this report we have concretely when it comes to state aid one conclusion that is extremely important and which points to the behaviour of this ruling coalition towards the market. In 2012, the agency also assessed 11 State aid programmes while the number was significantly higher in 2011, i.e. almost twice as high and 21 State aid programmes were assessed. In contrast, in 2012, individual support was assessed in 26 cases, and in 2011 this would be in 18 cases. It is essentially a negative trend that indicates that support providers encourage the granting of state aid to individual entrepreneurs, while reducing the number of programmes aimed at granting support to previously unknown users who meet the criteria for using support aimed at horizontal objectives, stressing on one hand the selective nature of the support and reducing the positive effects of support for economic growth and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I think this agency's assessment has made it very clear how the ruling coalition is acting in providing state support. Therefore, the selective approach which has access to support for individual entrepreneurs means individuals. This is about the fact that a negative trend is seen in the absence of support that has clear criteria at the outset, which relate to everything and where all those who want to come forward for these support can naturally come forward and get support based on criteria. However, what is currently in force is stronger, hence the selective approach of the ruling, ruling coalitions towards individual support, where it is selectively individual or, let's say, it is not specifically similar here, but I will say it on behalf of HDZ-like entrepreneurs. So, not everyone who meets the criteria but just some, just the like. This is the report on the work of the Competition Agency. Furthermore, we have already warned of shortcomings and poor results in the application of the Law on Pre-profit settlement. But let's listen to what the agency says and what the expert opinion of the agency is. In order to avoid the fact that the State submits most of the burden of restructuring of entrepreneurs in a pre-departure settlement and thus becomes a provider of state support and to be one of the equal creditors and participants of this procedure in its expert opinion, the Agency stressed that the State should bear the same burden in the restructuring of debtors as other private creditors, i.e. to participate in this procedure under the same conditions as other creditors. In this case alone, it will not be about granting state support. In other words, in any case, the State shall write down or reprogramme the debt as any private entrepreneur of the believer. In this case, it would not be state support for restructuring but logical and expected behaviour on the principle of a private believer. In this case, only in this case, no specific pre-departure settlement procedure should be applied in the event of a write-off or debt reprogramme by the State. All I have to say is that this is one in a series of remarks relating to the application of the Pre-departure Deal Act that caused further trouble, regardless of what the ruling objective was to reduce indifference which was a good goal and good intention. But apparently the tools used in it were not good. The write-offs and the like again. I won't speak of individual cases now, but the write-off of debts allegedly to prominent entrepreneurs by the state if they have party omens, unfortunately, is not a rare occurrence after the adoption of the Act on Pre-Agreement. So it's really something that's worrying and what the competition agency actually warned about. Finally, there are currently political games around the Competition Protection Agency, about the fact that the agency can't actually function since 15 October. No one here seems to be worried or the clubs of the ruling coalition. Since 15 October, the Agency cannot function, because the term of office of the Presidents of the Council of Ms Spevec and two members of the Management Council has expired. Therefore, from that date on, the agencies cannot perform and perform their role which is extremely significant. What's behind this is what we can see from some articles in the media where the economy minister wants to place at least that's what the media is saying, speculating, wanting to set up their HNS cabinet and that person, some lawyer whose property is blocked. The lawyer's office is blocked. If that is true, then the question really arises as to how the ruling coalition really intends to act in this case, and as we know, the law obliges not to be elected to the Competition Protection Council by party officials. I think he's talking enough about the way they understand ruling. Apparently, the division of the prey after the election. This is indeed worrying and worrying that the agency which plays an extremely important role in regulating the market, the competition that has actually not worked since 15 October. And finally, the agency is certainly not to blame for last year's GDP decline being 2.2%. It's certainly not the agency's fault. So I absolutely agree with some of my predecessors who have positively assessed the work of the agency, although of course there is room for improving this work and for greater visibility which is important for citizens. Because citizens must have one basis in the competition process, they must know that everyone's share in the competition will be promoted, and even those big players, they were already here. It should be said that the law does not prohibit large players, let's call it that, or concentration on a particular market, but of course the law regulates behavior and monitors against abuse in the behaviour of large players. And there's the key role of the agency. The Agency must indeed monitor if there is a higher concentration on the market, it must monitor how this big player behaves. That's of course very important. Here's one more time with the hope that this collapse in the work of the Competition Protection Agency to continue to last, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54991	Ilija Filipovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54992	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, compared to what the esteemed colleague Matušić said, it is undeniable that the Competition Protection Agency has one very difficult, one very complex job in the current conditions of becoming in the Republic of Croatia. So, we heard some goals, read Mr. Matušić, it is important in my court to strengthen the culture of competition and to adjust to the conditions in which we are. I would ask Mr. Matusic if and if state aid only endangered some of the country's competitiveness and how we've heard of other problems with operators, trade chains, etc., why many small furniture manufacturers are shaking today, and some of the little ones are afraid not to mention everything. I'll just mention Lesnin, Kika, etc. Because it opens the door for the customers of the Republic of Croatia and the region of a giant named IKEA. And they're priced we know different from other manufacturers of that type of product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54993	Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54994	Thank you. So it's absolutely certain that the competitiveness of selective state aid has been compromised because in fact how you develop competitiveness when you put someone in that way by giving selective support you're actually putting someone in a privileged position. That's what this is about. Therefore, you are jeopardising competition and, of course, at the conclusion of the agency, economic growth is being threatened and employment is being threatened. That's for sure. And as for this individual IKEA case, this does not necessarily mean that it will be bad because I hope that our producers will find a chance just to place their products because it was announced how much I could monitor in the media it was announced by IKEA that they are interested in developing a domestic market in terms of collaboration with wood processors, with furniture makers. Which doesn't necessarily mean bad. I think that our quality products can be well placed on that market and, in fact, through the IKEA network in general in the world, we can place our products on the world market. In this regard, I am convinced that the IKEA present in all EU Member States can bring good, of course, with close monitoring of the Competition Protection Agency, which will monitor everything that is going to happen in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54995	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54996	Dear colleague Matusic, you said, in fact, you doubted what is going on at the Competition Protection Council, whether the party in power or the Kukuriku coalition will reach out to the famous model, which is what we will take into the council of people who are attached to us, or those with our membership card. That's the radio and HDZ, that's what SDP does, everybody does it. However, in the Competition Protection Agency Council, I am more bothered by people who are dependent on large capital. Those who depend on large entrepreneurs and who are actually their servants or their clerks and their even happened that some of their employees were later in agencies and that the agency was doing what I will later say in my debate, as the large Croatians dictated under quotes "huge capitalists". So this doubt is absolutely certain that it is against even the good taste of party people to take up these functions, but out of 180 agencies for 165, I guess they don't even know what they're doing, like the Railway Protection Agency or something like that, I don't know if I said exactly the name, which people themselves don't know what they're doing but they get salaries and they have a car and a card. That it's certainly not good that party friends are in love. But in this agency, when we talk about this agency, we really should have an agency that's independent of the power of respected entrepreneurs because actually that's when the agency is completely unnecessary if these people who need to be controlled are controlling the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54997	Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54998	Well, I agree with you in this approach, absolutely unacceptable, but here the law says that it must not be party officials and, in that sense, HDZ has not put its members in the agency as you have said. These other agencies would be able to discuss when they come to order and if they come to order in the debates, and certainly we will have more transparent insights into what has happened and how certain processes have taken place. But in this case, that law is not allowed. And I agree with you that in no case would be good, except for politics should not be dependent especially on some great players and especially not to be their extended hands, that would be absolutely unacceptable. But I say in view of what the agency has done in recent years with the final conclusion of Chapter 8 then we can say that it really worked well during that period because it was supervised not only by the Croatian Parliament but also by the European institutions who have indeed closely monitored how the agency regulates that market. And the culture of competition is something that we will talk about in the future for sure and what will be done and made easier for all who are in this process one transparent approach and one game that will simply ensure the conditions for everyone to join the market equally and everyone who has a way to simply report to the competition and everything that belongs to them and support. So, in any case, a non-selective approach is much better than what they're doing today, and it's a selective similar approach and, unfortunately, it obviously wants similar people in the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u54999	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55000	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's colleague Frano's prevention against market practices is a source of success in dealing with problems, and you said something about it being in a series of good things that the agency has done to support it. But I think I have one example that is not good, the intervention of ministers at the agency and their agreement in the conclusion of a contract that is from the IPA Rural Development project I'm going to say about the Minister of Agriculture is, certainly not a bright display of good work, it should have been contained because the project has been cancelled three times already in order to please someone because otherwise it can't be explained that there is any other reason. I didn't find this case in this catalogue of Grubišni polje and the purifier in the Grubišni polje and all the other participants I don't want to name here so we don't have to be under a shovel, but you know who it is, so there are also negative examples in the work of the agency that someone from the minister's position is acting to withdraw for days of consent and then to break up the competition and repeat it again and so three times in the same project that stands. It's not an incentive, it's not a protection, it's a guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55001	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55002	Your colleague Djakic is here as representatives of the agency, and I hope that they will respond to this particular example that you have set, which is not contained in the Agency's report here, but in any case it is not good if what you said is true and we will see from the agency's response if it is true that it was only done because the minister intervened then it was really very bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55003	We move to an individual debate of colleagues Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55004	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's actually very hard to talk about that subject unless you really talk about this report about what's written inside. It's acceptable to you, I think we should look at the mistakes that have been made, whether they've made any mistakes in the text itself, whether they've done it analytically. But I get all the reports and the agencies and any report that the state bodies are, the agency gets here on the bench in the Assembly we look at in a broader context. The broader context also concerns the sentences Mr. Matušić said earlier and Europe was overseeing the work of the Competition Agency. I'd go right up to that sentence. Globalism is one of the biggest causes of job disappearance in Europe. If you have studied the creation of a free market then you know how the free market has arisen, because of the desire to make as much profit as possible in the UK. After that, we return to this near age to the ones we felt on our backs. Which is why at a time when the most profit has been generated means that in these years of the crisis since 2007, so many jobs have been lost here and produced almost equally, production has been moved east, jobs are lost. It's a free market, globally speaking, very simplifiedly speaking. One of the mottos or light motifs of competition is also very dubious, all under the same conditions. Remember when the first Croatian president in a television show said no more Croats will go shopping in Austrian villages, will not buy a special place in Austrian villages, we will make trade chains. And we've made trade chains, we've got trade chains, I think we have even some statistics on the head of the population most in Europe of the trade chains and they're opening up a new one. You who travel across Europe and the world are absolutely certain that it is impossible at some European centre, say, or American in New York, not in the neighborhood to find a store for the most different things. Try in Zagreb to find a store of carps for anything you need in the household, you need to go to the city's periphery to buy something. All the shops are closed. We are now talking about the competition, and when it comes to competition and jobs, we have opened large sales chains, closed all small shops and lost as many jobs as we do, and we no longer go shopping in Austrian villages. But even the citizens won't be able to go shopping on the periphery of the city of Zagreb because they won't have anything to buy for because they're getting less and less employed people. And when we talk in a broader context about the competition then we can also watch what the agency actually does. If we also understand this framework in which it is spoken globally, in European or global contexts then we actually see that we are one drop in the sea and that it is very difficult for the agency to work under such conditions. That the agency isn't the biggest culprit in the whole story. We accepted as said someone here in the Croatian Parliament, agreed to the 1990s competition, and now you have this capitalism that you wanted. If in the '90s when we made a statement about whether or not we wanted what we have today, 99.9% of people would say they don't want to. That he wants to stay in that system that he used to be. So no one wanted this. As most European citizens certainly do not want what is happening today and that is exactly what the free market is. A free market where most of the people belonging to certain communities are subordinated. Just before I spoke, ask the Croatian producers I talked to, look at their contracts, what contracts they have with the trade chains. Let's say meat producers, kitchen producers, meat processing producers, in those contracts that I have, which they gave me only stands to have the right to give their products. All of this has no right to ask, there will never be a payment of these products, when they will receive compensation, where on the shelves their goods will stand, under which conditions will be sold. All of these are colleagues and colleagues should be present in the Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. If you read the report, you can see that very few cases have been reported, that these are in what I'm talking about and there are no cases. I was wondering why you're not complaining to the agency, why you're not reporting, why you're not suing, why you're not fighting over what they're depending on the chain of commerce. And because, for example, with one manufacturer, the butcher talked to the co-owner, their 200, 300 jobs depended on it, on the mercy of the trade chains. Trade chains solve their losses in a way that simply takes away those whose goods are on their shelves. There are several such cases. That's what the media wrote about. I would also like the Competition Protection Agency to talk about the fact that the report is not merely the printing of what came to their addresses but to deal with the real problems under the quotes of the "free market" which, in my opinion as a man, left-handed man certainly does not exist. That a big lie and that free market is one of the biggest delusions at the expense of citizens or workers. Which certainly has nothing to do with the Competition Agency's report. And the position that I speak in the Croatian frameworks, large capitalists use in Croatia is similar to that in other countries, so that we are less organized society and their impact on the agency and otherwise on the processes in Croatia is far greater. Because what I said before, people agree between themselves, and there are often these agencies and all the controls we do are fig leaves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55005	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55006	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague Vuksic. I'd like to agree to this presentation of yours in part. It may also be complemented in this part where trade chains actually define the position of those of whom they buy products define them and which is very difficult for small producers especially the position on the shelves where they will be located. They charge extra per meter for the use of shelves. In particular, they charge them whether it's the top shelf, middle shelf or bottom shelf. In particular, the items of sorting these goods, so they use in some way a whole series of additional weights that, for example, small producers, bring them into a position, especially for Croatian producers, to put them in a position that their products must actually be found on the bottom shelves of the malls. And you know what the best shelves are, so on the bottom shelf somewhere in the bottom, corner, squeezed and practically invisible to consumers. It is certain that in that part at least the equality of small or domestic producers, for example in these malls and the position in which they are compared to these large bidders regardless of the product, there would certainly be room for them to at least be placed in an equal position, nothing more or less than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55007	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55008	Dear Djurovic, we agree on that, only one supplement. You know for sure if you go to the shopping chains that all trade chains have their brands, some part of it products and some actually just label, just slip into their cellophane and buy at significantly lower prices. Quality, if you go to an analysis of the quality of this product and the quality of the original goods, it is very different. And tell me now that we're talking that light motif all under the same conditions as the manufacturer can, a small manufacturer competes with quality goods, let's say one Billy, one Konzum and their products on chains. So every chain of commerce, I think all trade chains already have their label, their own goods. And it's the most diverse from chocolate to ham and I don't know, to fish cans, I don't think it's possible. Because if we were to go into the essence and study it there we would actually see not in that fundamental sense the crime of great scale but precisely the collapse of that competition that we're so prone to and full of our mouths of freedom, and we'll see that in every step, in every segment of freedom of the market is being undermined.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55009	Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55010	Dear Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, here I agree in principle with what you said, but here I would like to complete. In fact, it doesn't seem to you that, and you mentioned the free market, that it actually all started one day with privatisation and since then big players have been created that we have mentioned here on several occasions today. So the way someone became a big player, I don't get into anybody's life story, but the fact is that the way someone became a big player also determines his behavior on what we call the market. So whether it's gonna be or not, you know. To be a carpenter, you have to inherit or study that trade well and be who you are tomorrow. To be a builder, too, and to be an engineer of something too. The fact is that such a way of privatization is an honor to those who have gone through it with their work and their behaviour and understanding of the market and building themselves on the market, I take off their cap, but the fact is that the great concentration of capital still happened to something we call privatisation. On the other hand, it's been mentioned here how much I think you mentioned it and whether the agency is guilty or not. Well, no, of course no one here blames her, but the fact is that she's an instrument that has to be independent, whether we want to or not. And so the agency should actually point to those models, moments and situations, regardless of who is currently in power somewhere. That's completely irrelevant. We're talking about the market here, and the market shouldn't, unfortunately, be agreed, should be independent, untouchable, so there should be something where the price of every commodity, service or something else is actually going to be determined. I don't have time for this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55011	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55012	Dear colleague Rilje, and you and I agree on that, I didn't understand you at first because you said it all started one day when it was privatized. I was talking about how it all started one day when in Great Britain the Grain Act was abolished, and then the free market began. And in our free market in the 1990s, however, when we talk about privatisation in the '90s, we need to see those who privatised Croatian companies by party principles, so we know that not everyone could get the company, you know how the loans were shared, how the loans were actually paid off by profits from companies, not with money, clean money. Which one of these big capitalists, what are their newly created values? When Jure Radic did big jobs outside Croatia and what big jobs? What other values did our capitalists create and break into some foreign markets? We can count them on one hand's fingers. Therefore, the problem is far wider and bigger than this report itself, so I apologize, it is not done, so the power of these people sitting in the agency is too small, except of course that influence should be fought and they should be fought for influence. However, I think that the human policy in Croatia concerning one and the other major parties is such that they always push into those bodies that should control politics, that politics controls them, and then politics controls large capital again. So we're in a closed chain where there's not much room for some kind of freedom.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55013	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55014	Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2012 The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2012 is hereby adopted. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 105 votes, 1 vote against and 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55015	And now we will discuss - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2012 and a declaration of fiscal responsibility for 2012. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures submitted a report on the basis of Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You received the proposal by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. On behalf of the proposer, the Vice-President of the State Commission, Mr Angelko Rujlj, will in the introduction explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55016	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, a nice greeting and a good day to everyone. Before you is the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2012 which, as every year, contains a number of statistics and indicators that will give you information on the work of the State Commission. The State Commission is an independent, independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, giving concessions and selecting a private partner in public private partnership projects, and for filing indictments for infringements prescribed by public procurement legislation. The procedure before the State Commission shall be initiated only after the complaint has been made. It should also be pointed out that since its draft continuous quality work, the State Commission has trafficked into an institution that has become the main correction of the public procurement system and also a very important lever in the anti-corruption activity of the entire system. The report in front of you has the following content. Basic statistical indicators. During 2012, 1728 complaints were received, of which 1676 complaints on procurement procedures and 52 complaints on concession procedures, representing a reduction of about 10% from 2011 when 1921 complaints were received. As a note to point out that the decrease in the number of complaints in 2012 was only a small deviation in the constant increase in the number of proceedings before the State Commission, we point out that in the current year, the number of cases had already increased by approximately 26% more than the same period last year, because on 28.10.2013, 1776 complaints were received in the commission and 1410 complaints on the same day of 2012. As regards resolved cases during 2012 of the 1728 complaints received, 1565 of them were resolved in relation to the cases in total in 2012 which was in total in 2030, a total of 1867 complaints were resolved, i.e. 91.97% since 302 cases were transferred from 2011. All cases are not resolved in 2012 mainly because complaints are received by the end of the calendar year, so these cases are necessarily transferred to the following year and resolved after the completion of the file, a total of 163 cases. In 2012, the appeal procedure before the State Commission lasted on average 59 days, i.e. so long as the complaint was received in the State Commission until the decision was taken and sent. What should be noted is that the average time of the settlement of the case from the date of completion of the file of the appeal case until the dispatch of the decision is 20 days means within the legal period. The appeal concerning the decisions themselves was adopted, established in 22% of zero all four cases identified irregularities. This is a total of 365 public procurement procedures. The most common reasons for the adoption of the complaint are the vague and contradictory documentation for competition, discriminatory provisions, provisions of the offer which do not comply with the requirements of the competition documentation, the unfounded exclusion of the applicant's offer in the evaluation review process and others. The complaint was denied in 31.64% of cases. So no irregularities were identified or had any effect. It's a total of 495 items. After that, the complaint was dismissed due to a lack of procedural assumptions in 31.18% of cases. It's 488 objects. Most of them were rejected for disorder and 41.8%. The appeal procedure was suspended in 12.52% of cases. It's 196 items and public procurement procedures. A complaint may be brought against the decision of the State Commission to the competent administrative court. Of the 1867 cases resolved, the administrative dispute was initiated in 2012 in only 87 cases, which is 4.66%, which means that more than 95 decisions by the State Commission have become effective without the use of administrative judicial protection, from which it can be concluded that the parties in more than 95% of the cases are satisfied with the decision of the State Commission. The value of controlled procurement procedures in 2012 amounted to an average of 11 billion 555 million kuna. In view of the subject-matter of the procurement, the largest number of complaints were made for the purchase of services in 678 as well as in 2011. In particular, it points out that the procedure before the State Commission is the complainants, in addition to the fee, are due to pay and compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure which is the revenue of the state budget and in 2012 9 million 530 000 815 were paid to the State budget, while in the approved budget of the State Commission for 2012 amounted to 7 million 861 thousand kuna. The public works need to be pointed out that all decisions made by the State Commission are made public on the State Commission's website, in full form, which makes the work of the State Commission as transparent as possible, while at the same time achieving an educational effect, but above all anti-corruption effect. On the website of the State Commission, there is a public register of appeal cases showing data on all cases of procurement which have been made public. Recommendations for the development of the public procurement system contained in the report, the scope of the State Commission's work is extremely high with further tendency to increase the number of cases. It is necessary to highlight and possible an even greater increase in the scope of the job due to the uniform application of the Public Procurement Act and the procedures financed by EU funds. The new law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures of February 2013 increased the number of members of the Commission to 9. It is also possible to hire 4 new advisers in the expert commission service. All these steps of change in the legislative framework will necessarily reflect both the effectiveness and speed of the resolution of the complaint before this committee. The aim of the State Commission will also be to play a more active role in the education of participants in public procurement procedures on the part of public contracting authorities, and education will also be focused on bidders' procurement procedures. The State Commission should actively participate in a possible change in the legislative framework, in areas where it has been established through practice that the bottleneck is in the functioning of the public procurement system. A brief summary of the report on the work of the State Commission in front of you has been mentioned earlier. I also use this opportunity to thank all the employees of the State Commission for their outstanding efforts and quality work tasks in these very sensitive and important jobs. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55017	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55018	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the honourable representatives of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. We'll accept this report. I think it's well understood that it's extremely transparent. So it's very easy to follow him which sometimes isn't often in the reports that we get from individual institutions. Therefore, it is very clear and precise that the most important data that any representative and any representative should be interested in, but certainly the entire Croatian public. So, with a good concept, I think this report also brings a number of important data that we will believe to be analysed not only today but also in various other discussions on many different proposals and amendments and additions to the law, but also in the functioning of certain institutions in the Republic of Croatia. So, as the report itself has found, it is notable that the commission has strong anti-corruption mechanisms. This is extremely important because in a country that is faced with such a deep economic crisis, but also in a country that is faced with such a widespread corruption phenomenon, the insolence of many who do not ignore the law, nor of the process that is being conducted, nor of many who are suspected, who are also first-degreed, so they do not defiance to continue to try to play not only the laws but also to play their own state and ultimately themselves. So, cheating on the state, stealing first of all cheats and stealing themselves. Therefore, transparency in the work of the Commission, the public publication of all decisions, is particularly important, so that any decision can be analysed in a consistent manner. What we have been facing over the past years, which is particularly important in that large and important concept that all parliamentary parties advocate, which is to expand and strengthen the investment potential of the Republic of Croatia, certainly that the role and work of the Commission is further questioned. In fact, often it happened, I also witnessed it as a minister who had a large budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry, a large and huge budget that rested on a large part of the public procurement, when we faced the fact that because of numerous complaints which, unfortunately, had often been and had been hanged only to stop some process from being in big trouble. I'll give you an example, getting a car for 100% of the disabled 1st group. So, the legal obligation of the state and that ministry was to get a certain number of cars every year because the law allows 100% of people with disabilities every 7 years to switch cars, so the ministry, or the government had a legal obligation, had planned resources and this considerable planned resources in the state budget, but we often came into a situation that we could not fulfil our legal obligation because of those who complained. And we've come into a great deal of trouble, in great weather and every other seal so that we don't spend our resources and cause justifiable anger for those who had rights to cars. This is one of the problems we normally face in the fight against corruption and the fight against crime. On the other hand, many people in both the state administration and various institutions face criminal persecutions many before them hesitate to make decisions that can be questioned in any way. That's why it's good that the commission transparently publishes everything it does. My opinion is that it can further encourage those who do their job fairly and honorably in accordance with the law, in accordance with the laws. So that they make decisions and if their decisions are legal, then they will eventually conclude the commission and will not bring down, for example, an important competition. What's interesting about this report, which may not have been until the end and completely public knowledge, is that part of it tells us where the Commission's financial business is talking about the fee for the appeal procedure here in the last year more than 9.5 million kunas are being paid into the state budget. Well, then, in some ways, the commission contributes and strengthens the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It would be good for us to get through the debate maybe information about how and how, for example, here last year, we spent more than 9.5 million kuna. That is why, in this context, by considering some of the latest government decisions that have not yet reached the Parliament but will come about reducing the route to say so in the public procurement process, so that it can be bought for a larger amount which will not be subject to public procurement but will be subject to a direct contract is not good. We must continue to strengthen because we are faced as a state with such major corruption problems, we must further strengthen this system, so I dare say and serve, and never loosen. Because often times and completely legitimate decisions such as getting a car, we are witnessing these days a series of amazing examples of the purchase of expensive, angry cars from the state administration but to the local administration. So, up to the level of counties and cities as well as municipalities where in such a difficult situation legally through competitions of course get cars that are only missing from the photo contest of the model that actually wants to buy is.' And that's when you analyze what's harder and poorer living in a middle, that's the desire for a stronger, better, more poignant car of local leaders. It's something that some other kind of analysis deserves, but ultimately it's just as much a mockery of the whole public procurement system. So you can also get something legal but it's totally amoral and inadmissible. As far as other species and forms of analysis are concerned, here's what I'd like to suggest to all of us, specifically, to focus on that part of this crisis report and the complaints. So the bigger the crisis, the bigger the number of complaints and the pressure on the commission is the more logical it is. So anyone participating in a public competition wants to get a job because it's very difficult to get a job. So on that side, I congratulate the commission that did one big one, and it's always one of the most ungrateful jobs. As for resolved cases and those rejected, it deserves a equally very interesting analysis, so 495 complaints were rejected last year, 488 were rejected, 345 were adopted, and the suspension was followed in 196 cases. Therefore, in 541 the complaint was rejected or rejected, and in 345 it was adopted, so much more of the complaints that had been rejected or not adopted by those who had accepted it. Therefore, it is the same important indicator that says that we need to invest more in what is called education, so in informing those who think to complain, in informing them about what their chances are, because each complaint, of course, gathers and builds up the infrastructure of a commission that may not be well enough or in time to deal with some particularly important cases. It is particularly interesting to see what the value of the appeal cases is, so here in 2011 when you compare the year in 2011 the largest amount of almost 21 billion kunas is the value of the appeal cases. Last year half as much as 11 billion, but here's the 2011 highest value of appeal cases. It is also important to point out that 95.34% of the commission's decisions have become legal without judicial protection. So in almost 96% of the cases, the commission was the last instance, that's good, and that shows the justification of the work of this institution, or this state body. Finally, strong support for whatever appears to be strengthening, uniting and transparency of public procurement procedures. As Prime Minister together with my colleagues, I also launched the establishment of the United Public Procurement Office, an incredible lot of resistance, so the resistance was public, the resistance was public, the resistance was visible but even greater they were invisible, because many very difficult to give up many things that were normal over the past years. But in a crisis of course with everything else in the fight against corruption and crime, we must also fight to save for rational behavior, so one of the subjects of general mockery was that purchasing category of water, I believe many of you will remember. But the fascinating fact was that in the five months of the combined procurement process for certain categories in that water category, we saved 10 million kuna. In the category of office material, from toner to staplers, paper, etc. Some 30 million, so this was an indication that at the state level at the first moment we can be united in public procurement where in one place we get everything from rubber to water, from clutches to office furniture can save an average of at least 350 million kuna. So it certainly justified the whole process. So full support for the Commission's work, and we will certainly try to point to this importance and value in the debate on the state budget so that the Commission's capacity is continuously and continuously strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55019	Boris Kovac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55020	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's Mrs. Kosor with attention I've been listening to your debate and I agree with a good deal, especially I liked your emphasis on the need for further strengthening of the system that it needs to be further strengthened. You also talked about anti-corruption mechanisms. But in this last part of it I have to say it like this how one express left-handed I think we all need to be credible together. There's a little problem, though, and believe me, you had my support when you were talking about water and paper clips, I'm collecting paper, I don't get it, and I don't understand it. But on the other hand, I always wonder, I don't remember you talking about getting expensive cars right now, and I'm against it, even those purchases that come from my ranks to say so. But I also don't remember you talking about it when it was your ex-boss, and that's all canceled. I don't remember you raising your voice. And that's why it might have been funny then and that water and those staples. Here it seems to me that all together in the further development of society and also in public procurement and anti-corruption and everything we need to be and credible. I'm not denying you any right to talk about it now. I can't think of that. But here, I asked myself as an ordinary citizen and as some kind of left-handed person, take this for granted under the great signs of the quote, because I consider myself a prominent left-handed man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55021	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55022	Thank you very much. As far as the car you mention is concerned, as you know, there is still one process that has not yet been completed, so all the facts about it, including the purchase of that car, will certainly be clear and public and accurate. But I can answer you. Neither I nor many of my colleagues, some of them sitting here today and in the assembly that were members of the party's presidency, we didn't know about buying that car. So we didn't know and we didn't support it, but let's wait for the court to say its own. I am a legalist, so I believe that we should constantly return to the judgment of innocence as taught by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So let's wait for the final judgments. But I have a right to talk about it, I have a right to talk about it. And I think that no one who has in any way participated in the executive authority or in any form of government in the Republic of Croatia when there have been any irregularities or violations of the law that consistently does their job cannot deny the right to speak about how we should work and how we must work. It's not like that for me. So, I consistently and systematically represent the same thesis, and as Prime Minister, here I have firmly given support and the work of the commission but also the establishment of an office of united public procurement. And you've also witnessed how the public, first of all, mocked me about those categories of water supply categories because I asked that if water is already being purchased, for example. for the ministries to be just plain water, not taste water. But, of course, it was a mockery. But it's not funny when you see how much we've saved on that, then it's not funny anymore. And that's how it happened with the paint clips, because of course it's the easiest thing to say, so we're not gonna save ourselves in small things. But it all starts with little things and ends with little things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55023	Thank you very much. Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55024	Thank you, Vice President. You said in your debate that it would be very interesting to know where 9.5 million kuna was spent, which the State Public Procurement Control Commission charged on behalf of the cash compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure and paid into the state budget. Somehow, I got the impression that you think it's some extraordinary income. So, what I'm saying is that these are actually regular revenues, finally the state commission has charged 120 thousand kuna in the name of the fee. So these are all some sort of regular revenue from the state budget. The truth is that the state commission costs this country, so its functioning, is costing it about 8 million kuna. It is obvious, therefore, from this relationship of charged revenue and the budget itself for the functioning of the state commission that it is in favour of the state commission. So she has practically achieved something more than she has spent, but all of these are the regular revenues of the state budget that are used to finance the state commission and other needs. And I don't see any reason why we should know where, for what purposes, that revenue that the state commission has earned has been spent on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55025	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55026	No, on the contrary, I think we as advocates need to know everything, so, because 9 million or 9.5 million kuna is not small money. But I didn't mean it. You got it all wrong. So, I, if you've noticed, I never debate indulgingly, sarcastically, try not to prank and try to insult, but I try to present the facts. So, it was just on the trail of the fact that it was nice money and that maybe he, I didn't do it maybe until the end he could use it to further strengthen a commission that has a big and hard job. I mean a huge deal. I'm afraid that as the time goes by, if we don't break out of the crisis quickly, the commission's job will be even bigger. Because, of course, those who find it hard to find a job doubt everything, and so they often actually hold the whole process back, and then it's a closed circle. So they must work as quickly as possible, clearly more transparently and efficiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55027	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55028	Thank you, Madam Vice President, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. Looking at this report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for the past year, the Croatian National Party Club will support it. Because we believe that this body is a state commission one important segment of the state administration that is doing a very responsible and quality job in part of jurisdiction. Necessary. The full report as such is acceptable, meets certain standards and methodological but the same as last year I would like to present some suggestions and suggestions in my debate. I hope that if it's acceptable to the state commission and that they can be respected. Last year we discussed when there was a report there were also financial double the number of appeal procedures but I know it was a problem, and as for the staff and teaming of the state commission itself. But now, according to last year's report, when seen, it takes into account the number of cases solved, how many remaining unsolved and how many reasons, although I think in the last year, the commission and those indicators worked more than well. What I would also like to point out is that if we look at analytically and put in a ratio of how many purchases there were, the contracting authorities in the last year are 18840 and that part of the complaints reported is 8.9%. Of course, it is not the responsibility of the State Commission to review all 18840 purchases, but to solve those cases that are under appeal. What I would like perhaps as a proposal, as I was saying at the outset, for the sake of showing the whole problem of public procurement, and I believe that this information would be very interesting to the State Audit, that along with this information about how total the purchase was, it would also be financially monitored. Also, I'm going systematically through the pages, so I'm going to make some remarks on each part. Namely, we have this table that speaks of the number of appeal cases compared to the contracting authorities who had five or more appeals before the State Commission in 2012. What I would like may be to see the weight and that we can better qualify for why certain complainants are wrong, in fact not the mourners but the public suppliers or the contracting authorities in which the problem is and if we put in context those 8.9% of how much the total purchase is, that is not some significant indicator. However, if we see that we have some public contractors, Zagreb Holding adopted in relation to the number of appeal cases 20%, so we have HEP production 34%, so the clinical hospital center 41% of the complaints received. Of course, it is not the responsibility of the commission of educational and advisory character, but I may believe that these indicators can be very significant. Whether the contracting authority has not mastered basics such as the Public Procurement Act, whether additional education may be needed, I say I would suggest that if it should also be in that part of the procedure led by the State Commission that those who are wrong to and write certain instructions, i.e. more as if it were an advisory character. So that we can see if we have a relapser because maybe it's a rule somewhere, it would be interesting in this part to see the flow for the next report, for the next year back a few years. When we look at the structure of the case, how many complaints were rejected, how much was rejected, how much was adopted, how many were suspended, etc., we see, we get the information that only 22% of the items received were wrong. So the complaint was passed on to 22% of those cases, which were declared by the complainants. However, it does say something if and would have said that part of what I had mentioned in the matter whether the basic law was understandable, could have concluded that the law was good, that it was acceptable and that the vast majority of public contracting authorities had mastered the matter, especially if we put it in the context of all public procurement. Of course, not everything could be controlled by the State Commission, so of 18840, the State Commission found 2% irregularity. It is one indicator that we are indeed what the predecessors said last year, and Mrs. Kosor now also means that the state apparatus still works and that as a state we are moving forward. What I would also like in the section means when you say how many items it means this Commission solution is the same that you are also financially monitoring how much these purchases are. In fact, it's very interesting that everything on 8.9% of purchases is that complaints have been made and we have that information, 11.5 billion. But I say, as I was saying at the outset, it would be interesting how much of 18 thousand and how much public procurement is, that we can also make a financial comparison. I would also have this table on page 39 of the structure received according to the estimated value. Now, I don't know if that's the methodology, but we have to 70, 70, to 300,000, 300, to 10 million. I don't know what key the table was made by, so here's a clear one thought of whether it's possible, mathematically yes, whether it's possible for that range to be established, or whether it's possible for some other parity to be established. As for what was controversial last year, this year we see that trends are positive, so the total duration of the appeal procedure from 61 days has been reduced to 59 days on average, these are positive trends, but I think it still takes too long. So here's a clear recommendation to see that you vice presidents and your associates see if possible, says the average case resolution in the State Commission from the receipt of a complaint to the dispatch of a decision takes 59 days. Average time of settlement of items from the day of completion of 20 days. Extraordinary! But why completeing it turns out to be 39 days. Is there room, possibility, because in the finality of both the contracting authority and the complainant it can't be too important to him these 20 days. So within the legal deadline, he's interested in the total length of the procedure. In the section on the reasons for the complaint, I had already said it. However, non-compliance with the documentation, selection of invalid offer, unfounded exclusion. Namely, and therefore, it is also visible on the trail of what I was saying whether there are relapsers repeating from year to year a certain error of suggestion that they are given a kind of recommendation in the sense that they are not mistaken. There was the same funding speech, so we can simply conclude that the State Commission is self-sustainable. When you look at the revenue of nine and a half million I think the expenditure is somewhere by a million and something smaller. It means that you have a profit if you speak in terms of and context of a company which is more than commendable than some other agencies, perhaps by the nature of the job you cannot achieve, or simply be sustainable. However, this can only be commended as such, and with that I also find it appreciated to see that if we talk about a range from the beginning to the final conclusion that both the items, or how much payments the complainants have to pay are not too large. I think it's optimal and it's more than acceptable. And finally recommendations for the development of public procurement systems. Of course, that's something we pointed out last year in the report. We had a brief look at that. A advisory function is also expected. Also, one connection, one collaboration with the State Audit. What's a big problem, and what we only have right now through the national audits finds how this contract was finally carried out in public procurement. The fact is also that state auditors don't go to the details, they don't go to the details. However, I think it may be as clear as a suggestion to see how you work with the State Audit, because what is very interesting is that we are also witnesses in previous years, probably even today especially with regard to the purchase of services, i.e. works, buildings, whether it is road construction, high construction, low construction completely now irrelevant. Namely, the building is a living thing. One thing you define, you arrange through public procurement. However, this job can ultimately cost less, and it can cost more. And I believe that certain conclusions could be far better defined. So I'm referring to one of the perhaps better-quality, more intense cooperation with the State Audit just on the trail of this to give us a complete system of public procurement because you're one segment. State review, others to be as good as possible and better. In addition, we also received a table picture of all complaints. What I would suggest if one systematic approach is possible to have in particular, it will be very interesting to us in, whether in this or in the coming years certain topics are already being opened by competent ministries, that we have systematised by ministries, by state-owned companies, by county, by county, by municipalities. Respecting my suggestions means that we have the number of complaints, that we have the same kind of analysis maybe far more quality. Because that information will tell us, and it will be an extremely good material for discussion in the coming years. Once again, we will support this report in the hope that you will respect these suggestions and that next year, when we have this report, I hope that the deadlines for completing the documentation itself will also be more satisfying for you to take all the activities and actions that are in your jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55029	I thank the vice president. We have two replicas. First honorary colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Vice President, you said that, in principle, according to statistics, the number of cases solved is very large and that you are very pleased with it. I would say that the State Commission is still one big bottleneck, because if you were looking at statistics, and you mentioned that in relation to last year, it was basically twice the value of the cases that were in the appeal procedure, which means that it was probably stopped that investment process, so there was much less work. And you said yourself that it's still too long a time to solve these cases. It's definitely very long, and we can't from these facts that so much less is actually solved to be satisfied with this kind of report because these deadlines really go beyond measure. Is it necessary to change the law, and to get the commission to deal with these items in a short time to speed up the process or something, because obviously when we look at statistics on how many people were on sick leave, it's odd that we didn't get as much statistics as on vacations, how many weekends were there, how many days off. All that could have been written in statistics. Personally, I would prefer it if a proposal had been made in that final part to speed up the processes. And what needs to be done by me to speed it up and it should only be a committee that's fair, quick and efficient that it's not happening, so I don't share your satisfaction in this part, that it's not happening, and you also said that the complainants might be wrong, so they should be educated, so it doesn't mean that the complainants know before the object of the complaint that they'll get the answer to the appeal rather than what he comes by himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55031	Thank you. Replica response, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can tell from your replica that 99% of you agree with my debate and thank you for that. Of course why I expressed my satisfaction, looking at the 61st day of 2011. 59 days. If we take mathematically into the context and maybe that's not a good thing to say an impressive percentage. And also, if you've been listening very carefully, and I see that it is, 20 days will solve the appeal. The deadline is 30, but completing the documentation is what I just said and I've given certain suggestions that it's something to me and we're thinking the same thing because for many years we've been in local self-government and we know what problems we're operating with, that's exactly the biggest problem. However, we can talk a little bit and I won't say politically but perhaps more philosophically. As long as it takes, whatever it takes to complete the paperwork anywhere in order to publish the procurement. Let's try to look at it from that angle. Do we have 30 days? Well, for some things, it takes six months. So we can think about it that way. Of course, that's a question and philosophy. I don't want to bring that subject down to that level, but I'm saying, that's just it. I expect, just like all of us here, that the administrative state commission will begin to deal more intensively with this. So if we look at it the way we did last year, there are 300 and some cases left, twice as many this year. So the trends are positive. And exactly on the trail of this, I don't know if teamwork is done until the end, even though I believe there's always room for it to be as high-quality and what's positive, so they're sustainable, self-financing can be said and trends are moving forward. I believe there'll be a better report next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55033	Thank you. The second line is a respected colleague, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55034	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is Vice President Batinic, in his statement, well noticed that the appeal process is taking too long. If we take the length of the public procurement process and the complaints, that the complaints only last for almost 60 days, two months, we find that well you've seen that it's too long. Given the high criteria laid down for members of the Commission on their expertise and their working experience as well as for those who are the legal professions of the judicial exam, I think we should certainly strive to bring the 60-day process down safely below 30 days, and I fully agree with you there. Because when we look at what public procurement means for local self-government units, and especially for the economy, which is, I think the goal of all of us sitting here and you controlling public procurement is to bring these processes down to as short a time limit as possible. And it would be good for about the Public Procurement Commission to and guidance on how to improve and speed up this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55035	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Josip Boris, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55036	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished representatives of the State Commission. The HDZ Club will support this Commission report for the control of public procurement procedures for 2012. We believe that this is a point on and everything that happened during that period, means during 2012, but in a section that only came to the commission. We see for ourselves that only 9% of total published purchases have been controlled by the commission on the basis of complaints. Which means that 91% of all posts remain out of control, let's say so. Which doesn't mean they're not neat and they're not legal. What does this report suggest? During 2012, the number of complaints made for the procurement procedure compared to 2011 decreased by 10%. 2011 1 921, 2012. 1 728. We hear now in 2013 we have an increase. Out of 18,840 complaints, only 1,676 or what I've already said, only 9%. The total amount of appeal proceedings was reduced from 20.6 billion in 2011 to 11.5 billion kuna in 2012. What does that suggest? In her part, she tried to explain the State Commission itself. It's obvious that the whole system is in a certain let's say so first of all to the economic problem. From local self-government, regional self-government, public enterprises to the very state through ministries, agencies and all others. So we have one slow economic activity. On the other hand, it is also possible to explain this by trusting the parties in the work of the State Commission but also by raising a number of seminars, education, raising the knowledge or level of knowledge of the participants in the procurement process. The percentage of complaints adopted by 22% suggests that this is one combination of precisely the two effects that are manifested today in the Republic of Croatia. But here's a little bit about the public lure system. I'm the one who brought him down to, like, eight steps. Contractor of public procurement, public procurement announcements, bidders, choice decisions, afterwards appeal, commissions, commission decisions and administrative dispute. I've already said 91% of all public procurement posts end in 4 steps of these other 9% go all this way with one small part of all those who have entered the appeal proceedings not occurring in the administrative dispute and this shows the data. What does that mean? If you weren't complaining about getting it, it's fine. This is the question that will permanently rise up as a questionnaire because it may be in this particular area what is happening today, which is visible, corruption still makes the biggest deal. What is the situation when we talk about the first step of the client, i.e. those basic bases in the Republic of Croatia? It did not decrease, in my opinion, it is either the same or even higher in view of the number of public procurement applicants compared to 2011. So here we have one stable situation by number but obviously and financially less opportunities than local self-government, to utility companies, public enterprises, ministries, etc. What do we have with bidders? Do we have more or less? They suggest all the information that we market bidders have less. So what does that make? Can these bidders be less satisfied with the wishes or goals set by local self-government or those referred to in the procurement process? They suggest the data we see that in the Republic of Croatia the most purchases are goods services, then services and ultimately works. It's $4.3 billion, 4.2 billion and 3 billion. Maybe that's the problem with our economic moment. The fact is that we are the state of tourism, service, trade and this data in some way shows. We're having trouble with construction work. This shows the most the meaning or justification of the state commission. When we passed these 2, 3 steps and came to the choice or decision to choose exactly the construction works, among which may be the largest number of complaints. Why? Because there is often a problem here and it is constantly being talked about the occurrence of dumping prices or low prices that are unreally impossible at the time not only by the public procurement process i.e. They allow complaints rather than even after choosing to leave room for what happens in the system which often occurs, which is once again the re-scheduling of competitions, the selection or after the construction process, let's say one hall, perhaps it's best to explain it in the case of the hall, the two-part hall price 10 million kunas, cost-adjusted to ten million kunas, I speak indicatively, there is someone who will do it for 8 or 9 but there are also those who will do it for 10.5, 11 and 12. According to the Public Procurement Act, if all papers are offered by the Office, i.e. The client chooses who's the cheapest. It goes into construction and, of course, after a certain moment realizes that he cannot solve the problem as he has offered it. And that's where we get into trouble. So what's the commission gonna do? Nothing, the commission can't do anything about it. If the proceedings didn't come to her she didn't do anything, so she missed it, if anyone complained at that time, the commission would apply the Public Procurement Act. It's gonna be hard to turn down the one with the lowest price of the offer. It often happens in the Commission's solutions that even when we complain about a certain part of it, it may be the price of procurement, the Commission declares the procedure to reject or accept the complaint but for some other reason that comes also from the Public Procurement Act. These are common solutions they are indeed extensive and it is evident that the Commission’s expertise is indeed at a high level and should be poured out into everyone’s confidence regardless of what may sometimes be justified criticism given the timing of such decisions. What makes it impossible for us to tell a selected artist with the lowest price? It's making it impossible for us to realise the resources from the state level. We sometimes have to repeat the same public procurement procedure three times to start building at all. And until three times you repeat with all these 60-day deadlines until he gets back let's say some commission decision when you filed a complaint, you're not in realisation until the 10th or 11th month and there's no realisation for that year. That's what burdens everyone. It is evident from the report that the commission in that part has made a certain step, that the deadlines have been reduced from the moment the complaint was received by two days from 61 days to 59 now. That's what tortures everyone. We would all like to do so in 30 days, but the law is very clear and there is a commission within the law if in 20 days when the documentation is completed releases its decision. I think it's that average that's improved year by year and I think it's 20 days okay. But we can't solve all the problems in that system through the commission. What are the most common decisions? The appeal is denied 495 or 30%, the appeal is dismissed by 488 of the same 30%, the appeal is adopted 345. So only a fifth of all complaints in some way gets some kind of satisfaction let's say legal. The one who complained with justice complained the commission appreciated it. Everything else is being rejected for a variety of reasons. So four-fifths of complaints are still being dismissed. So when we put it all in those 18 grand, then the numbers look really small to us. To manage to control maybe 2% of all purchases in the Republic of Croatia. And what then suggests this list of those who had five means a list of orderers with five and more appeal procedures and as many as 68 in the Republic of Croatia. We're calling a competition and we've got 68 people who've been complaining about it five or more times over the year. Who's the worst? They suggest these lists and percentages. Somehow, HRT stands best here with 67% of respected complaints of 13 procedures and 12 resolved 8 adopted. They don't know how to call an obvious contest, or he was targeted, so someone found a flaw. Not far either is HEP with all those subgroups each third competition and every other appeal is adopted. Not to mention the health system and all the KBCs. There's a percentage of 45 to over 50%. Obviously, we have a problem with public procurement in the health system, which shouldn't be. There are still educated people there. It's something that needs to be done, so maybe the revision should be well ordered for what it is. Maybe it's because maybe they're the only ones who invest, that they have some money that they can invest in a particular project. So here's a little bit of a saying through that whole system we come to this last part of it, through the administrative slowdown. So when the commission was obvious, the one who's damaged has the right to appeal to the administrative court. We see that there is a very small percentage of those who decide to do so. Of the 1867 complaints, there were only 87 lawsuits or 4.66%. Why? In my opinion, because people are aware of the longevity of this one administrative procedure or may be on the other side that they are also aware that the commission is an expert and that they will also show that the following data that say that in the last year of the 25 decisions of the Court of Justice 17 suits have been rejected. So the commission's expertise was hardly questionable at any time. I think that's exactly what it's all about, and I think that's what this report suggests, and we need to draw a conclusion. I think the commission's doing well. It's a powerful anti-corruption element. The number of objects dropped in the last year, we hear something's growing in this one. Our investments are dropping and our supply was down. However, the Parliament should have confidence in the work of the commission because it teaches us all in a way order, procedure and respect for the law. And we heard the vice president's colleagues working with profits. I believe that everything that creates order and controls us and does so with profit should be supported and that is why we will support this report from the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55037	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55038	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, already last week in the framework of the strategic investment debate, we have been dealing with issues and public procurement in some way. And we have pointed out this problem that you have touched in your debate, which is, of course, the problems in the units of local self-government where you said it, and we know that we know very well who are acting in certain responsibilities how difficult it is to create a financial framework, how difficult and what financial opportunities are and what they are not, of course they're not great. After all those obligations that must be made by preschool, school, fire, all those in our activity, which are in the description of course for investments remains very little. And now the leaders of the local self-government units are making immense efforts to close the financial structure regarding specifically sports halls. Here I am in my midst, you were talking about a 10 million frame, we built a three-part sports hall for 7 million and 800,000 kuna with VAT. And fortunately, we didn't have a mourner. But there's a need to say that we all face the problem of the complainant. But it is also necessary to highlight the problem of those professional complainants. I watched a little bit when we came in, I looked at the pages, and there are some that keep showing up like mourners. And I think they're causing you a problem and this bottleneck that Mr. Glossy was talking about is that they often suffer and, of course, they're often rejected. Of course, all the praises in that section of expertise, but this is the moment I wanted to point out that the leaders of the local self-government unit would not be causing problems because, with these meteorological opportunities, the problem of building at a certain time makes it even more difficult for us, circumstances that are not great anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55039	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55040	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinkovic, so as far as professional complainants are concerned, they exist, and I think the commission can't influence them too much, she has its own framework within which she behaves without complaining showing amounts that are not negligible. Nine million kuna, however, is one possible part of these professional complainants. How many complaints have been accepted by them, we see it's only 22%. So they were better creditors than users, maybe all of their appeal allegations that they were then... As for the hall, they can be built if the financial structure is closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it shows little understanding of the last two years not only of the halls, but of schools, health institutions, etc., because obviously there is no money. We see it in the division of the Ministry of Regional Development. Which will be further, it will show time, we see also the announcement that the following year that the number of appeals has increased. Maybe it's some kind of positive sign, I don't know, it might show the total number of all the values that fell 50% in relation to 2011, whether we made an economic leap or it's something else again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55041	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55042	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Namely, when you spoke about dumping prices related to public procurement procedures, I forgot to mention because there are certain elements, knowledge that the State Commission is coming to, above all, concerning AZTN. We had an argument before that, unfortunately I was officially prevented. Namely, they call them predatory prices. It may be difficult to determine whether my thinking might be in some part, and a certain experience tells me that certain professional complainants may be on the verge of confusing the competition, of course fighting for work and all together. I would not like to believe that this is the case, however, I believe that certain data may also have to share certain information and data with the Commission in cooperation with the Commission. In principle, I can conclude that you completely agree with my debate which I am glad, more or less we all agree on. However, in one part you also spoke through a synonym dumping price. The public procurement law defines the most economically acceptable price, which also does not mean the lowest price. That's something, but it's still at least with the contracting authorities one great unknown and one matter around which perhaps, in cooperation with the State Commission and with the Public Procurement Office and with the Resort Ministry, it's possible to make some additional education of public contractors, because it's a rather slippery area, I'd say a bit of an unknown, incomprehensible perhaps entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55043	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55044	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, I agree with most of it. Look, we in Croatia have a clear understanding when we talk about the construction of some normative or price valid in the construction sector and when costs are done we know what is applied and who is applying them, how the designers and everyone else are doing. What's going on, and I tried to describe it on one let's say to the imaginary hall of 10 million kuna is that the coster at 10 million kuna is precisely at these average prices that the projector's office takes from a particular house that is in charge of it in the Republic of Croatia. After that, performers who offer less than that appear. They say we can do it cheaper, and there are those who say we'll either do it so much or more. What the client does, and I think it's in 99% of cases choosing that lowest. That's what the law says. Now if she's the most economically profitable, we find out only in the second step when the one who got the job and signed the contract moves into work and then stops after the first foundation and says I won't do it for that price anymore, I want additional costs, expenses, etc. There's a problem. These contracts are broken down if the investor is a state or local self-government, but this again means a new public procurement process. These are the worst situations that could happen to anyone, whether it's a state body, whether it's an agency or a local self-government. Sometimes they say that God did not give you a repeat of such a procedure when you had already arranged certain works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55045	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55046	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's Mr. Boric, I've replicated on a similar subject, the lowest offer, and here's what I see is that we agree that the lowest offer doesn't mean the best offer, and here's what you just said, and most often it's not the cheapest offer that's even saddest. But I don't know if you agree, and even the current legal framework as far as the client is concerned, we shouldn't have always, I don't know, been mayor so from that little position, we shouldn't have always taken the lowest offer. It's often from a clean opportunity because it's the safest and quietest. But we're also covering someone's hard work, starting with some kind of project assignment, through the project until then professional and badge-making of the tendering process and the public procurement process, and we have this situation. That is why it is very good that, and I will probably discuss this later, as we also have in the State Commission's report a proposal to improve this system. So here is the segment that is very important and needs to be done first and foremost perhaps legal framework and public inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55047	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55048	Well, I can also agree with your explanation because it's very common in practice. However, the moment you say you have the lowest, but that you will choose the next one that may look better to you or have all the technical features that you can do the job, you enter into the procedure of the State Public Procurement Commission and then agree nicely for these 60 days and possibly 60 more days and you are aware that you may not. That's the problem. We're here when we changed the Public Procurement Act we proposed, I don't know why it doesn't want to be done, it might be some kind of solution that needs to be respected. Maybe. If we're already fighting that lowest price, we throw out the lowest and the highest, and everybody fight for a real price. I think deinstitutionalisation would be much more polite and much more effective. So we get out of public procurement that part of the lowest price. I know what it's going to mean in a political sense, but the lowest and highest ones are creating a problem, so let's all imagine if they can get a job like that when he writes what he wants to write in a way that's unrealistic. That's what a legislator should think about. I can say on many examples that it is the mayor, the mayor, who is most often in trouble because of poor construction documentation. That's what a profession should do. When it will be and when it will be perfected to the end I don't know, but here we have the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55049	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55050	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, it is good that around this topic we are almost all agreeable but what Boric mentioned in his debate would certainly be good to see if we have data from all the public procurement that have been completed, how much has been interrupted precisely for these reasons that prices have been dumped low because there are primarily great damages for citizens of the Republic of Croatia from dormitories, secondary schools, health homes, and it is also a question of realisation of these projects because these projects were all from budget funds. Usually when you get into trouble, it goes from one year to another, and then it's a big problem. So it would be good to see for sure if we could use that information to see how much public procurement there was in the units of local self-government, state-owned enterprises. How many of them have encountered problems in project realization. These problems are if prices were dumped, and here it is difficult to find the right solution to what counterpart Boris said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55051	Answer? No, I don't. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, gone, so he loses his right. A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55052	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As I did in the previous debate in the previous report, it is always necessary to concentrate on the report itself, but also on the report outside the context. However, this report by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is certainly one of the better reports. It contains everything that could interest an average politician, including a citizen. It's well written, well structured, and now it's again whether it's contained in the report itself is the essence of the problem we're talking about today. It is certainly not a problem for the State Commission, but rather a problem for society. If we speak before he said that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a strong anti-corruption element. One of the strongest anti-corruption elements in the Republic of Croatia is certainly Croatian media. Remember how many Croatian media have uncovered precisely cases of intentional or tendering for public procurement and pointed out and made it easier for the State Commission, and in some other bodies in the Republic of Croatia to defuse such criminal proceedings or boasts, if not criminal boast procedures in which it is not, except that the car emblem is not drawn and perhaps a registration plate which is already reserved with initials. Because you know that some of our mayors, the mayors are putting their initials on, it's being paid extra. Otherwise public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, the history of public procurement is the history of crime. You can also write that book about how public tenders were called and what was accepted in public competitions, in what way. Just think of building roads. Competitions are, you've always had three bidders and all three bidders worked on those roads. One got the job, these other two were just competitors on paper. It is also a public procurement, a history of public procurement, and we will find out what was behind it after the court proceedings that are now being conducted and likely to take place for years. What kind of public procurement was that? If you remember the contests were obtained by the work of painting the tunnel. He answered, so a company that I don't know three, four, five or ten times, I don't remember any more, made a smaller offer, claiming that the real economic price that this company offered and that this is so many times bigger. However, we have seen and in courts it does not go so easily. It is not when more and more institutions and influential persons are involved in crime, more factors then it is very difficult to untangle the bench and prove it in court because we know that the judiciary is not a fortification of democracy. We know all the pains of the judiciary by not doubting the judiciary because the prime minister could write me out of Croatian citizenship as he said who doesn't believe in the Croatian judiciary then the SDP doesn't believe in the Constitutional Court. Well, that's kind of weird. But it's not a topic so the vice president of the Parliament doesn't warn me. So I'll do it again. The media are a very important anti-corruption element. Here several colleagues mentioned professional complainants and that they are a major problem in the process of public procurement. However, these professional mourners you can be part of the game. And they're part of a chain not in any case that eliminates actual suppliers of procurement, construction, anything. After five times the process is repeated after many complain, and only the persistent one who has pushed into the game of the complainant remains, and the complainant has fulfilled his obligation. Croatian broadcasting and HEP are mentioned here as two institutions of state importance, state institutions. One's public. It's Croatian Radio Television. I spoke publicly of it several times here in the Croatian Parliament. I know that there is a Mr. Bajic who is likely to submit a report by the end of the year at least 10 reports on how to extract money from the institution. So let's say, for example, if you borrow a camera from a camera company, you're going to pay for something tens of something, tens of thousands or thousands of euros, it doesn't matter. And the HRT will pay, so you will rent the camera for three days, ten thousand, and the HRT fifteen that will rent for a year. And no one in the Croatian state is suspicious. Instead of paying her five because she rents for a year, because she's a permanent camera rentalr. Therefore, it is no wonder that on HRT he said before his colleague, Boric, seems to me, under quotes, "can't" call the competition. They're good for it, except there are those who understand what the contest says. What's also written there is that they don't write emblems of companies from which individual equipment will be purchased. It's the same with making a scene and everything. There, unfortunately, when the controllers come to HRT, those people who don't know the specificity of that trade come. What is a scene, what is a technique, how it is done, so you often knew how to talk in the towers, and things like that were reported, and the HRT people themselves reported that the scene costing me 250 grand, and it paid 750 grand. That should've been checked. However, here, State Attorney Mladen Bajic said in his report last year when I said there were 10 applications, there are now in this report I will tell him that I have witnesses who are willing to confirm that they have reported and that there are reports he said there is no application. Then a man would wonder who's crazy about it? In such an environment that has only partially been written to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, it is difficult to work because it is not a good atmosphere. The atmosphere is good for those who think evil is to use public procurement to put as much money in their own pockets as possible, that is, to get the money that does not belong to them undeservedly. That's what we call crime. Everything we have a chance to read in the media in a way that, I think, my colleague Kosor was talking about at first, local sheriffs are getting cars expensive and I have to call them local sheriffs, that doesn't mean that all the mayors, all the mayors and all the mayors are you. Even I think there's a minority who does that, but who's never been able to afford a car with heated seats or an SUV, and then remember that the Director of Plitvice Lakes wanted to order a huge car and it's not so hard to afford a big car just because she sat in a chair that lets her realize some of her girlfriend's dreams to buy herself a big car. It's also a problem, the problem is what does that have to do with their greed through public procurement? So they already agreed to keep an eye on the profit of a car that costs 60 or 70,000 euros is much easier to get than cars. Let's just say all state officials should be driving those mid-stakes, those mean ones. Because GDP doesn't deserve any of the Prime Minister's driving cars. We should adapt to the citizens, to the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and only when we deserve something better by our work, can we write in our examples all those horsepower, the width of the tires, and I don't know what they don't write. Therefore, once again commending the report itself and my condolences that you must work in such an environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55053	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55054	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, in this final part, you may have responded to the part that I wanted to discuss and clarify some dilemmas. In fact, you were talking in that section about the chiefs, about individual commissioners and mayors of certain municipalities who put initials or behave in this way and in that way. Of course, that wording that they and the sheriffs are also in some way questioning because I want somehow the credibility of these mayors and mayors is kind of trying to create a bad picture. And I want to tell you here's one of them that I know as many as I know them, and I know a lot of them who really behave in the most normal way to take care of all those questions that are from their own circle and with difficult problems they face. Of course, it is especially important to call out those who, under these complex circumstances and economic and economic behaviors, let us say a little more strikingly and in particular about the purchase of the car you were talking about. But what I'm trying to say is that these commissioners are also facing a number of problems. Of these professional complainants we talked about, but I also want to say that a lot of things are imposed on them and put themselves before the act. So let's just remember last week when talking about strategic investments says a five-member commission is formed and 1 of these is the chief. So what's his strength? A short time ago, in the context of the debate on the Law on Agricultural Land, a commission was created that had not produced any results so far. And he says he has some kind of power, some meaning. There isn't! In very difficult circumstances, many do hard work and work hard and need to be welcomed, and I am truly proud of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55055	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55056	Dear colleague Milinkovic, certainly not to think of you as much as I have told the mayor and the mayor to put her initials on the registration plate, you certainly have some other values and that is not your identity. I said most people don't. Therefore, if the wrong picture is to be created, then I certainly did not want to create the wrong picture, but rather the wrong picture of the mayors, mayors and mayors, so on. The local sheriffs are created by the very ones who are misbehaving, first of all behaving arrogantly because they spend public money, the money of citizens who are increasingly poor, and that's what you often discuss here in the Assembly, they create this bad picture and I haven't seen a single case that appeared in the media that any of these mayors, mayors or mayors or some other civil servants have been denied and when it was written about wanting to put their hand in the hands of citizens and draw money. So it's always been true, and that's that a minority would be good to do some kind of statistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55057	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55058	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you mentioned many examples of many companies you touched HTV, HEP, construction of Croatian roads, car purchases one remained especially in my memory where even in the contest there had to be two children's seats in the back seats but at that time even the logo companies forgot to remove and even saw which car had to be even if I remember well that the mediator or supplier was left inside in that competition. However, I wanted to warn of another case, which is unfortunately a little less public, and far less known about it, which is the demining of mined areas. We have a situation here that because of certain problems and their problems, they happen to be called not to call, but to call a competition, they are called certain companies and then they are given a particular piece of land or project to deminise it. In order to achieve an illusion of righteousness, it is done in a way that they are called for one project, for one another, and that is how it goes in order, we have created an illusion of righteousness. But clean parcels are given to certain ones, and those that are extremely difficult from their point of view are demining and unaccessible or what they call garbage, and they are given to others and are forced to reject them. And then they go into some other procedure, so there are other circumstances. They have avoided the possibility of being called out for it but on the other hand it is evident that they do not work fairly do not work correctly. Now I'm asking myself and you, but is there any way to end it? You're the men of the profession, maybe you'll know best how to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55059	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55060	That question you asked will be given to you by people who do so. But there's one aspect of what you said about ordering cars of famous brands, that he ordered probably one of the state's clerks' cars and asked that there be two children's seats in the equipment, that the famous supplier you should know is already a done deal. In all of this, the saddest thing about such people is that civil servants, officials, are not punished, which are not punished by the parties who have appointed them. Remember that one of our colleagues because she wrote even now I believe she sent a letter, faxed that they were not treating a party member Rigidly, had to resign or had been removed from the minister's post, and when they made a thousand times the greater sins of the party do not respond. It is perfectly normal to order a car with two children's seats so you just have one child to be spare or to lend to the neighbor, and that the party has no position on it, that the parties in power watch and boast the minority of mayors or heads of various agencies as soon as they sit in the chair has to be a car with at least 150, it is a little 150 horses or 151s card in your pocket and to iron the card. Well then, it's no wonder that Minister Linic has us by the throat that we need to save, but we don't need to save in agencies, that's where the cars can be purchased by angry cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55061	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55062	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your discussion, you mentioned faith and infidelity in the Croatian judiciary, I think it is a very important topic along with this but every other or many topics that we are discussing. So I'm going to mention again something that seems just amazing to me but no one's responding, I've talked about it in the debates in the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. So the independent body we further strengthened in 2010. The State Judiciary Council, which decides on judges in the Republic of Croatia, shall decide on those who will be tried in various cases and, of course, in corruption, in that body is sitting and it is terrifying from which miles come as a representative of the academic community of persons against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated. However, there are no mechanisms there are neither obvious nor in the law because it is chosen by the academic community that this person should be excluded by the end of the process until the process is completed in any way. So it's something that shows that, despite all our experiences, we didn't end up building our mechanisms well. Because in my opinion, the people against whom the criminal proceedings were brought cannot make decisions as important to the entire state as the choice of judges. And finally around the car. We're hearing these days, and that's what it is, not funny, but it's comical, so it's very often people who find themselves in the seal, so they have to explain why they order such expensive cars, so I'm talking now about the mayors, the mayors and the mayors and the mayors. They say very often as an excuse for safety. So a car of 450 thousand kuna for safety. So does this mean that they'll be ordering in the future their transport tanks? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55063	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55064	... One of the mayors, I think he said he needed a big car because he's a big person. [[Specially enabled.]] I don't know what we'll do, I guess we'll order him a truck so he can drive 'cause he's insecure in traffic anyway so he can ride a man's truck when he's looking for a bigger car. When you were talking about the State Judiciary Council, you said there were no mechanisms, there are, I was saying, the Croatian judiciary is a bad judiciary and then there is a need for social intervention. I speak not in court proceedings but simply if we see that this judiciary, that in our case cases are conducted three times longer, litigation than in other countries of Europe, it's a sign of alarm, it needs red, they swim in complacency. And it's certainly tragic that the State Judiciary Council is a great black shadow over it if it sits in the State Judiciary Council of persons against whom the proceedings are being conducted. The other thing, you know, is the appointment of judges. You're sitting in the appointment of the Constitutional Court when the criteria were reduced so that individual party judges could be appointed to the Constitutional Courts, it's all just an indication that we as a society created an atmosphere and I think you once said that to your colleagues also in which corruption is tolerated. We still have those who steal 20 million kuna heroes, pillars of society. And that's a shame, we need to ask ourselves how we act and how moral society we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55065	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55066	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you have pointed out several times in your debate that, namely, the strongest anti-corruption element in our country is the media. So, I would agree with that with one reserve. In fact, what reduces their effects to some extent, so the effects of the media in their anti-corruption action is the fact that they reveal anti-corruption cases of post-festum so when they were actually done, when they happened. It's the most common case. In this respect, the advantage of the state commission is as an anti-corruption element in the fact that they cancel public procurement procedures most often at the stage of the selection of performers. So from this information, or reports from the state commission, we see that right at the decision-making stage we have the most appeal procedures. Thus, the state commission actually prevents the conclusion of a harmful contract. So such a contract won't happen at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55067	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55068	Well, it's perfectly safe and excellent that the media publish a post-festum because then they'd be babes fortune tellers if they knew in advance that someone was going to do something wrong. Yeah, maybe we'd be psychic Milan. They're not that. But remember that the media has announced major corruption affairs related to highways. Remember how well the Prime Minister's lessons were taken, which they claimed to be smarter than Jesus. Remember Verona, remember all those affairs, it was all in the media. And then when someone jumped from your side to them, they said almost tore down the state because they dared to say that corruption reigns. The media dared to write about it. Not all of them, not all of them. Sometimes they say it was delivered to the media. Well, yes, he delivered it, but they sent it down. And many, remember watergate and many affairs. They were also delivered. But they had the courage to publish. So, yes, the media are strong anti-corruption, whether they're the strongest, they're a powerful anti-corruption element, and it's good while they perform that good function, there's some bad function that the media sometimes performs and they want to surface what doesn't need to surface, they deal with those things, but my God, every one of us has a flaw, some sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55069	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55070	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, in my debate, my colleague Vuksic, I believe that you have looked back on either my debate and the discussion of the predecessors when I mentioned the re-deciver. In the table in the report, we have an overall report in the paper, so it's purely to understand why I also suggested education by the state commission or to give a suggestion for education. I mean, you have, I don't know, no numbered pages, that would be good, too. So there's five, I mean, two, four, five complaints about five files from HEP, the distribution system operator. Namely, the same company was complaining, and now, it says, SN joint blocks with a switch in the transformer field of the goods indication are annulling the open procedure for documentation. It's not necessary, it's extremely professional, because I don't understand what it is, I'm a layman, I'm not those professions, I don't know if anyone in the assembly here understands. And that's why I suggested that this table be structured right out of the debate that our discussions are going towards a far more high-quality conclusion, because from this you can now according to this part, which in the original part of the table in the basic report either that five and more times have been wrong. Turns out there are elements maybe corruption, furniture, etc. It's not really. That this table is systematised by the contracting authorities, etc. Then you would see, for example, the University of Zagreb, the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, foreign journals for 2011. I don't understand what's in there, who could complain about what and how, who could get as cheap as they could from another company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55071	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55072	Well, honestly, first of all, I didn't investigate any corruption cases and it's not my job to investigate the corruption case, but we know that here I was talking about HRT here in the Parliament, the press, the editors testified about corruption in HRT, and that's why they were punished, and even the Parliament didn't protect them. So the Parliament invited them to speak on committees here in the Assembly, after they stepped up to the Parliament, they were punished, they were taken from their pay, they were threatened with layoffs. This shows the power of the Parliament and how much we hold to protecting people who are fighting corruption. Also, I can't appreciate what you said in HEP, which is a problem, I'm not an expert, but we know well that there have been problems both in HEP and HRT, and that all the time it's been said about some set-up purchases or goods or some jobs, and that after that, after 10 years we actually figured out and started some trials, maybe not in those companies, which have proven that the public who suspected, journalists who pointed out that they were right. That means it was late for the judiciary, he was late for the BOOK, I don't know what's going on, the State's Attorney's office was late. Which is why Mr. Josipovic said he would not end up in a pot, and now we will see if he ends up in a pot in the second month next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55073	We're continuing the debate. Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55074	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There are two joys, first the good work of the commission and second, the fact that the largest opposition party supports your.... I was very pleased to listen to Mr. Boric explain on behalf of the HDZ the vision of your work. Why is it important that the opposition supports your work, because your commission is a strong anti-corruption body and it is good that it has the trust of all parties in the country. And the fact that you have gained the trust of the main opposition party and other parties is also proof of your quality of work. Only praises can be given about your report. I'll repeat, perhaps, some of the things that have been said here, that you have fully covered your budget, the cost of your work, and 531 thousand kuna, and the fees of 120 thousand kuna, and you've still earned the state budget. Well, if everyone did that, it would be great. Although the number of complaints has fallen slightly, you say, it's still big. 1/5 is justified, 4/5 are rejected and I don't know what's the bigger problem, whether those that have been accepted and processed or those that have been rejected. If complaints are justified, it means that someone was not doing a good job in public procurement or that he wanted to cheat on it, so it worries. But they're also worried about these rejected because it means that someone's complicated public procurement, complicated, stopping jobs, and it's not good for the country. Perhaps you should consider turning away from those whose appeal increases the fee, increasing their compensation for it, so if they are complaining in a court of law, let them pay for it. That's what the state will benefit from. For every one of them knows whether he complains justly or unjustly, they know it in advance. There is another problem, however. I think we have a big problem with the Public Procurement Act and that this law should be thoroughly changed because this law actually seems to me to be an ideal legal act for corruption and that of Bible proportions. This large domestic robbery that has done more damage than the Homeland War on Croatia was carried out under the Public Procurement Act. Well, that's not where the law was working. Construction of highways that were not twice as expensive on some stocks and 10 times more expensive than the construction time from 2000 to 2003 was carried out by public procurement. It's tunnel paint, public procurement. It's a media firm. Public procurement. The only thing that ever won the Fimi Media was, my God, she had the best offer. And that's where we need to think. Read today the beautiful text of Ante Tomic, called "Mr. Clean and Mr. Innocent", a beautiful text where he mocks, rightly mocks Karamark's sentence "I am clean, and Kalmeta is innocent". It's an inspirational reading. The most favourable offer, the most economically acceptable price. This is interpreted as the cheapest price, the lowest price, and then that's, and that's the lowest price that's great... for corruption, that's great because where the fraud starts, where the robbery starts, starts already at the project. The wall is designed and then the contractor makes the offer the most favourable price that is less than the material for making that wall, from the price of the material. Of course he gets a job because it's the lowest price. The project changes, the wall won't even be built because it wasn't planned or needed anyone, but the company got the job. The famous annex. It's how you avoid or abuse the law. I'm no expert in public procurement, but I'm told some European countries have a system like this. So, a tender is being called, bids are being collected. Cheapest and most expensive are immediately discarded, immediately. They don't even go into consideration, the cheapest and most expensive. Of those remaining ones, the arithmetical environment is calculated. The job gets the one whose offer is closest to the arithmetic center. It's impossible to set up. It's impossible to set up, predict who's going to answer everything, what prices to try to target that arithmetic environment and get a job. Until we change the law in that sense, it will always be a means for possible robbery, for possible corruption. No one should think that all men are fair in any set of government. I can be honest, I can be better controlled, but I think that by changing the law, we'd do a lot more. With all the praise for your extraordinary work I stop here with my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55075	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55076	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Stazic, Vice President, I've been watching your preparations for the stage performance. As Professor Balthazar there you invented a magic potion, magical sayings that must make an impression. So then you managed to get it into this report debate somehow, and all I'm saying today is normal and legitimate. But what to say when we talk about this law, you say I'm not an expert, but the law needs to be changed. So it doesn't make sense to each other that you talk about often. So I'm not an expert, but the law needs to be changed because it's wrong. And what to say when a mayor calls here an Audio Center. What do you say then? Did the public procurement procedure at that time bring shame? I'm allowed to do that. I'm the mayor. When you call me I say Audi Center here. Is that okay?? So one public procurement procedure, the SDP mayor of Sisak-Moslavina, someone called it she says here the Audi Center, the story of getting new cars. So, again, the public procurement process is what everyone's interested in. But I'm defining the moment you write it, you know which car you need to buy because it matches only one type of car, it's not all the same. And that's where we get the problem. Is that what leaders do? They're working. Is the law broken? It's not. If no one complained anything happened, it's okay. And that's why those stories, and what you said about the tunnels, why does the justice system have a problem? Because it was a public procurement? Why is there no charge of that tunnel painting? Because someone will have to say what part of the law has been broken, and the other part of the moral one is always about public procurement. And that's why it's not good for us to direct this debate in that part, and someone's been stealing something all the time. Let the institutions say who he is, so let him answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55077	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55078	You resent my fellow sentence I'm no expert, but the law needs to be changed. We all change laws here and make laws in areas where we're not experts. So if we follow your logic, we'd have to disband this moment and you'd resent that sentence for me. Your example of getting a car confirms what I said. If the existing law allows someone to obtain goods from a predetermined manufacturer, the law is not good, so such a law should be amended. ... We wrote it. [[You can't hear it.]] So it's his turn now and the amendments to that law and look at it anyway. I think it's the task of all of us to make an effort, to prevent any possible corruption, to prevent it from where it occurs, where it can be implemented at all, but that's the Public Procurement Act. It needs to be changed and repaired in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55079	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55080	Dear fellow Trainer, you said one thing, I liked the debate. You said one sentence that is rarely heard in the assembly, which is none of the authorities are immune to corruption, and that's true. And everything that's happened since the election to this day proves it. You quoted the title from the newspaper I'm clean, Kalmeta's innocent. Mr. Kalmeta ran a sector where a corrupt tornado occurred and it will be revealed for years. A short time ago, counterpart Boris said it was very difficult to prove corruption. I think it was an example of a tunnel painting, because a competition was called and it was necessary to determine what was broken in that competition. And now you see the absurd. The people who volunteered to paint the tunnels said we'd earn 15% of the tunnel paint with that and that color, with that and that value they're not relevant. They are not relevant as witnesses, nor as experts. So, experts in tunnel painting. But we believe the contract that broke the rule, we paid for something 10 times or five times doesn't matter more and it can't be proved. It's just saying that our judiciary works badly. At the end of this I am clean, Kalmeta is innocent will actually prove that FIMI MEDIA was a small baby according to what was happening in Croatian highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55081	We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Denesh Shaw's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55082	Thank you very much, Vice-President, Vice-President or Director of the State Commission. I want to say the following about this year's report. First of all, I think it is well timed that after discussing this report there will be discussions about the law, so the law will change. And it is a good opportunity for us to point out certain things now and to make this law what fellow Stazic said in a certain way change and correct. Those of us who have some experience in public procurement may look a little bit and differently at the whole problem, and if a man wants to be or would be very naive, then we might be able to conclude that the sheriffs here are local, so the presidents of the administrations of various institutions and directors, etc., all honest then neither the law nor this State Commission should be practically needed. She needs it most likely because of the 10th, 15th, I don't know how hard it is to say it right now, but I don't think the devil is that the vast majority is unfair, because of the 10th, 15% of those officials, so to speak simply who are unfair. And now, for the sake of them all others, we all have to or must carry out this procedure, to deal with bureaucracy with all the possible problems that arise here. However, if we also analyze the 10% for which it is done, then I am deeply convinced that they are so ready for them that neither the State Commission nor any legal provision, probably in the large majority of cases, poses a very big problem to work past the law and thus refer to social resources. In other words, they put their fingers in a jam as they say. Here in this report it's beautifully systematiced in every respect, and given the length of the duration where you said it was 20 days to solve the complaint I think with the data collection etc., I have some experience here, rarely when it goes below 2 months. A month and a half the most ideal of months. And here I think the greatest burden on those 19 advisers of 30 employees and if it was on average 5.7 that they simply dropped out for certain reasons they couldn't work then it's a large number of employees and I think it must have left its mark on the length of solving those complaints. And I think that if any institution is to be teamed up in a certain way, then it's this State Commission team that's more than exactly a colleague Kosor has made in a very good way, but it says here that they're practically extremely profitable because another million and 700 thousand kunas to say so, plus they're making a state budget. Let alone the 50-and-a-half agencies at least 10 of those agencies are at zero, to charge as much as their cost to say, let alone luck. Therefore, for this reason, I absolutely support that commission being teamed up and that it really should be in two days. I'd like to emphasize that two more moments. It would be very interesting to see how those jobs ended, because the vast majority of complaints were rejected, which were rejected, so if they saw whether these works were carried out at those prices that were established there or for a certain reason, they had made a significant deviation even though they had made it all good in public procurement, okay so that you could refuse the appeal. Because practice shows, and in such cases, the most important moment is the price in the most part, and in this professional jargon of theirs they say that he dived with the price and then when he dived hard and managed to get a job when he went to work, then he immediately discovered certain to say unacceptable content in the project. Then it's the designer, then the surveillance engineer comes along, and then it comes from some job that's agreed on for, say, two million that somewhere the final price is going to be three to three and a half. So it would be very interesting to see that moment if we could have information to see how it ended. And finally, it would be good if we had some sort of review of what's going on with those institutions and those who don't even run public procurement, and we read it in the paper. We're horrifyingly afraid of everything that over 70,000 were services of any product, or business must be public procurement. And then you read one big million-dollar deal that wasn't public procurement at all, and we don't know if it's because someone in Remitenza didn't do it at all or if I didn't know where. I mean, we don't have any research and knowledge about it. I'd like to point out one more moment from my experience, and that's what I'm saying for the sake of the law. In fact, we did public procurement, and in the competition, we stressed that we were looking for references to the list back three years, which is more favourable to the performers, but a company that challenged it came forward because the law said it was five years ago. We just wanted to get in touch with them that they didn't have to dig through the archives and the State Commission respected the appeal, that's half the pages, because we didn't respect the law, but what's most tragic is that the same state commission ordered us and decided to pay the lawyer 46 thousand kuna for half the complaint. It's a very complex and big problem, and imagine that the value of the works is not 2.5 but 7 million that three times more, we would have paid close to 150 grand. From these half pages, in this case, the lawyer charged him, we had to pay him as a municipality of 46, which means practically two salaries of the Justice Minister to me how much about the prime minister's movement might be. I don't think that we have to, I don't have anything special against lawyers or I don't know, maybe a tariff could be discussed, but it's a very strange and absurd situation to do it this way. Of course, neither did that firm have the equipment to perform the work, nothing, but they were the only ones who were targeted here by someone who only tracked, hunted, and then in this way. You can think of a firm that doesn't even have a legal service to write a complaint but hires a lawyer, that's one particular problem. I absolutely support and I am convinced that the Club of National Minorities will also fully support this report and I am warning of a debate on the law so that, eventually, such corrections will not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55083	Thank you. We'll hear the replicas now. First respected Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55084	My dear colleague, it was really nice to hear someone say it because I know it because I've spent it unlike many. Here you are as the mayor and I as mayor know who you are... who always comment on many things that have never been spent in their lives or in public procurement or in other matters. You've pointed out a few segments well here. First of all, the deadlines for public procurement are. It doesn't matter that that deadline lasts a month, two or three months because you can lose the whole season. If that deadline is scheduled for public procurement somewhere in the 9th month and you have a complaint you have lost all year, and you know it when the competition is conducted, when the city budget is implemented, then you have a transition to the second year and you have a very difficult time at all to plan and see and even if it takes long and lasting and already those allegations that are listed in... competitions have already lost basic values you already have to practically start from the beginning and you have new costs. What I would like to mention, and that is, that around the purchase itself we say too much that this is always the lowest price, there is that the most economically acceptable offer can be defined by public procurement. I did not see that from the report to which the complaints were defined whether only one basis was the lowest price, and whether it was the basis and the most economically acceptable offer. Because it can happen that this weighting how to define only the price in relation to the others above all references where it was defined in the debate that you can also get by that part of the contest if you say you can... the tender one that has back five jobs that have multiple values and for some small bagatel value. You can state this in terms of public procurement, and that's where you should see it if you agree in that part how to define it in some things well to be uniform. We know examples of good practice and not only in Croatia now but also in Europe, and that should be defined more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55085	The answer to Denesh Shaw's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55086	An esteemed colleague absolutely agrees with your findings, I could only add so much to what I mentioned earlier. I'm more sorry about the 2.5 months we lost and we're late for work than the 46 grand that went to the lawyer. He'd pay twice if we hadn't lost those 2.5 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55087	During the debate, respected counterpart Denes Soje will also be replicated by Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. I learned from your debate from my colleague Shaw, and I support that we at local and regional level are the hardest when we lose time and lose money. And I agree with my colleague vice president of the Croatian Parliament because I had a case like that in my county. The Italian caritas strongest Italian caritas built one school 5th to 8th grade and when we opened offers we agreed all of the bidders of them 13 signed a statement that they agree with that offer that is closest to the middle value and no one complained and that school was made the key in their hands. And I have other cases, the Sports Hall in Slavonski Brod 32 million kuna, but the contest has shown that the most favourable offer is 34.5. The next bidder complained. And the commission says it doesn't say at all that price to the commission says 32 million kuna on the page is secured in the budget and this item and it's not 34.5, it's missing 2.5 million kuna and that's why we're canceling the tender. And he went away for a year in recovery. So there are various cases and this I agree that this segment should change the law that the most favourable offer is the one closest to the middle value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55089	This is Boris Kovacic's last debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Glove with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the council. To mention public procurement, it certainly does, and in your report the perception of the public is negative. And that's more or less said and in all the discussions and I repeat, and one extended sentence is in the report itself. Why is that? Probably because it's also already said here that corruption and bribery from ancient times and probably before today is current, is recent. And no social system was immune from that. From socialism, so here's to capitalism. Which is why this perception may be in Croatia and some research may be more pronounced than the average of the European Union countries might already be able to discuss. I see in this, above all, the causes back in the '90s when there was no such legal framework that was now following the problem of public procurement, when the procurement was conducted on another principle. And when it's also from the state, the ministries, to the local self-government units as they were then called by '93. years and especially public enterprises. Especially public companies remember the area of energy from oil production to electricity, from Croatian forests to water industry, and there to the shipyard I did not get all the way from when it wasn't diving at prices as Mr. Soja said here, but then the prices were getting high. And then I first heard about some... offers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since then, this negative perception, not since then, but of course, it's been happening because trust me then, procurement and public procurement is so compromised to the absurd, or rather to the lardy. And that's why we don't need to be surprised by this negative perception of our public. I have witnessed countless times that it is because on the mention of public procurement people would laugh, people would be sneerful, people would know everything about it as well as football. And that's what, that's the reality that and that's the atmosphere that surrounds us. Surely, legal regulation, regulation, has led to a steady improvement and we certainly now have significant and significant improvements in the area of public procurement. And also, I've already talked about it in the replica, but that system needs to continue to be strengthened. That is why I will especially be happy to support and that is why you are writing in the final part of your report where it is necessary to continue to strengthen the complete system and it seems to me that... I understand that and I think it's really important and it's important and it's that the public, i.e. the professional public, is included first of all because of everything that's been said here today in this debate since the deadlines, offers, prices, education and so on in the improvement of that system, I think that, and so it's written in, I say, in the report above all, the expert public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to this strengthening of the system, it seems to me that two other aspects are particularly important to emphasize, there have been words and it has been written here, and that is that we need one of our goals to be efficiency. The efficiency of the procurement process, in particular, is also important, there are deadlines and that this efficiency does not go to the point of expertise and to the expense of the quality of public procurement. And the other thing is, the public, that's where I don't agree until the end with Mr Vuksic, who said in his debate, or the replica that said that media is the biggest protection in the fight against corruption. And I think it's public, and by that I mean it's wider than the media, that the media is just one part of that public. It's especially important and I especially stress it in... procurement to the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter when a procurement plan is announced, it already begins the procurement process. That's what the media often doesn't record because they think the mayors are boasting, it's already preparing for someone. And quality preparation is also a guarantee, first of all, that they will not be people in the field and that is the fight against corruption. And how it will be revealed, and whether it will be debated. From small backgrounds, please nice to Croatian roads or I don't know what was mentioned here. So the public, the public, the public, I say these first preparations and until the end. We could list a few examples. The opening procedure of the offer is the same if the public is involved or excluded to me is the public if the public opening of offers in so many and so many hours it means something. They don't have to be journalists. But they're welcome. And they're welcome. That's why when I talk about the public, I think it's a more comprehensive concept than yes, than when you mentioned that only the media is the most crucial part in defense of corrupt operations. That is why I welcome and support this Report, I repeat myself particularly in these final observations of this programme of measures that should be done to improve the adoption of amendments and additions to this Act because we are witnessing is not numbered here, but I think this is if I am not wrong, but the fourth law, with no idea how many amendments and additions, I would like to be corrected by someone for the sake of the public if I said it wrongly, but that is not the reason why we do not strengthen and improve this system even through legal regulation. Mr. Vice President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55091	Thank you. It's four replicas. First Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55092	Thank you. Comrade Kovačić, I agree that there is a need to strengthen the mechanisms and give perhaps some new tools to the State Commission to monitor public procurement procedures, to control them. And look, while we are discussing this in the Croatian Parliament at the same time, you have a public tender in the City of Rijeka where it is evident that one entrepreneur, a friend of the Minister Linic, might be able to make a pump in a place where it is simply by all the laws that apply in road construction is impossible to do so. But you see, this public tender was held within 8 days and of course there is no way that anyone other than who knew that a public tender would be held, offered the city of Rijeka land replacement for this land that is in the public competition and that it would get the opportunity to build at the same time, and contrary to the general urban plan of the city of Rijeka. At least that's what the media says, now I quote what the media says, so I'm going straight ahead if any of this isn't true, but I've quoted the media correctly. So within 7 days, an entrepreneur gets from the city of Rijeka whether it's public, what it's really about, is that one unit of local self-government assigns to a clearly targeted entrepreneur for a target facility, and at the same time, the entrepreneur has purposely a replacement country that he gives for that country, which the city of Rijeka gives to him in the competition and the city of Rijeka accepts the replacement country, and essentially that entrepreneur pays several hundred thousand kunas for some 8 thousand square metres of the country. So what is happening in Croatia requires great attention and I oppose changes that will increase the price or increase the amounts that then come under the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55093	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55094	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Since I am not familiar with this case that you have now mentioned to me in the replica, here I am because of the public and for the responsibility of you, I will promise to ask a representative a question on the subject and we will all read together what it is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55095	Second replica, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55096	Thank you very much. My colleague Kovačić, with most of your debate, I agree or support it, so I will find it very interesting to see when amendments to the laws that were passed last week in the Government, which increases the amount of money, state money, budget money, taxpayers' money that is not needed, or if the law is passed in the Assembly, it would no longer be necessary to call competitions. So that line is coming down with these changes. So it's going to be interesting how you're going to define yourself because I think that just because we have the problems that you've been talking about, that system needs to be further stressed, and it doesn't make it any easier. So it's not good in my opinion, I also talked about it in the debate, changing the criteria for calling public tenders in the public procurement process, so that everything can be arranged by contract when we know that we all talked about it, so nice and perfectly I can set it up. And secondly, I want to warn you of.../Speaking off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55097	A microphone. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55098	Excuse me. So the European Commission's rapporteur, who was still in her report last year, and presented to us in the Anti-Corruption Council, warned that it was a very bad practice that has been in place since last year, a practice that abolished public procurement for public companies, public procurements for the selection of administrations in public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55099	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55100	So you spoke in this section of yours and about setting up the contest. Well, I know a little about that, and I don't know how to set it all up. As far as these measures are concerned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that they are guided by the principle of efficiency, and when the bill comes, of course, that we will all discuss this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55101	Third replica, Reverend Danesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55102	My colleague, I've assessed that you're in this problem quite at home, you know, and you rule. I would also like to warn one more moment and your support also and call attention to changes to the law, that both deliberate and random calculation errors about offers are made in a certain way if it is possible to regulate them because often such errors can be crucial, and some times when they should and may not, in the case of assigning certain jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55103	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55104	I thank you for your attitude. This is exactly what you were talking about, whether there is a intention or indeed a mistake, I have just put a special accent on this proposal, which is listed in the report by public involvement, or by the expert public in making changes and supplementing the law, which is precisely that these traps are or are not about to be envisaged and we are trying to adjudicate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55105	The last replica of the respected Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, indeed, once again, it is noted that you know how to conduct public procurement. You've done a lot just like the rest of us who are mayors and mayors, and it's really our goal to do what we need to do by law. And here I would point out these two guidelines that you said that perhaps many more details to be done, so we will deal with when it comes to the agenda of amending the Public Procurement Act. But the emphasis is that it has to be public, so that's why they're called public procurement, they wouldn't be called hidden procurement... well and correctly said it starts with a public procurement plan that is defined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, all these purchases must also be registered to the central register of public procurement in electronic form and trust the general public to know about any purchase that anyone is carrying out of any less value or high value. And you said about the expertise, that it should also be kept in mind, although the same law makes sure that in a commission carrying out the procurement procedure, there must be at least one that has certifiedly laid down that part. Maybe we should say they're all in that part or not... a different commission that would control it but that would be much further than I said the possibility when the law was passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you really need someone who knows it, who does it, and you need to discuss it the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55107	Thank you. The reporter doesn't want to speak in conclusion, so let's move on, I'm finalizing this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55108	Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2012 and Declaration of Fiscal Responsibility for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2012. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of 108 votes in favour and 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55109	We're moving on to the work report and thank you, council staff. We move to - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2012; Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2012 But here's a representative of the HDZ Club signaling me that there's something he wants to say. I give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55110	Dear Mr. Vice President, here in this heated atmosphere of plenary sessions I ask you for a break of 20 minutes on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club to show yourself precisely on the subject proposed to move on in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55111	Labourists Vuksic and HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55112	Same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55113	Okay, we'll continue at five to two, 13.50. It's 13,41 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.53 HOURS]] I call upon the representative of the HDZ Club of the esteemed Mr. Mlakar to come for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's something left of us, those who haven't been fueled by the weather or the virus that's been ruling for the last few days. So, in front of the HDZ Club, we asked for a break to suggest the following: the item of the agenda that we should now discuss is called the 2012 report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the report on the achievement of the HERA budget for the same year 2012. Given that the activity of the agency in the energy sector that we hold to be an extremely important economic branch in the Republic of Croatia and in its own sense both financially and economically requires a comprehensive debate, and that it can be held at a time when the HERA report is being discussed, our intention was to suggest that we discuss this report at the beginning of the next week when this session continues and when time is likely to allow a larger number of MPs to attend the plenary session. We are aware that HERA representatives are waiting to submit a report on the work, but I repeat in view of the importance of the topic, given the fact that we agreed yesterday and this morning on the agenda that we should have done two agenda points without this report, that our colleagues who were planning to talk about this topic in front of our club suggested that we do this item on Tuesday instead of continuing to discuss this agenda point. Here, I think it's been enormous and it's kind of in the interest of all of us to discuss such an important topic when there's going to be a lot more MPs here to discuss this matter than there is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55116	In the name of the Labour Club, the respected Branko Vuksic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55117	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am one of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament who advocates working both on Saturdays and Sundays to get there, especially assuming that the Croatian Parliament is not a fig leaf for decisions made on the other side of Mark's square. But I think that if it was agreed today that it would be until 1400 hours, minutes before 1400 hours to open a topic that is really extremely important, and that is the report on Hera's work for 2012 and the 2012 Hera Budget Report, that it is actually a focus on something else or a distraction from these problems that we should discuss today. I wouldn't be surprised because yesterday was a late debate about the CNB at a time when it doesn't seem like it because it's an important topic that should have been discussed quite safely at a time when most of the media are here in the Croatian Parliament that it wasn't accidentally placed at 13.45 or 14.00 hours of rebalancing of the state budget or perhaps the State's Attorney Mladen Bajic's report. I think it's probably going to happen that we're going to be somewhere in the afternoon when there's 20 people here in the Parliament that it's going to be on the agenda. I think this is completely wrong, the wrong way of working because it is very important that as many parliamentary deputies participate in the debate as possible and that we stick to what we agree on. And as far as I know, it was agreed to work today by 14 o'clock. If we need to call a session tomorrow morning and discuss it with HERA tomorrow morning, let's call all the MPs if there's an emergency. But I think it just wants to improve the bad impression that the Croatian Parliament is making, not the Croatian Parliament, but the majority in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55118	The HDSSB club also asked for a break and we will also hear a respected colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representative of HERA, MPs and MPs. Well, on behalf of the HDSSB club, I'd also like to join this in my own words. I think that since the topic is always kind of expanding in debates, that in Croatian energy, and Croatian energy will be apart from the report itself and the HERA budget is actually the topic, that in Croatian energy there really was a lot going on. There have been changes to some key laws both on electricity and on the hydrocarbon market, so we think simply at this point there is really no need for this point of the agenda to move quickly, and the fact is that it is going quickly because I think that there is a desire and interest for both the public and the representatives to be much wider on this subject. And as for the fact that there are very few MPs now, I don't think either of us expected or knew that this agenda item would be on the agenda. This, however, is a matter of some sort of irresponsible behavior. It was also quite a situation that my colleague Vuksic mentioned last night about the CNB, and I don't think it's a good thing that our goal and goal of our overall work is not and it can't be just that the agenda points are being pushed out as quickly as possible through the sessions, but that we discuss them, make some conclusions, make our views, the attitudes of our clubs and those of the people we represent in the Croatian Parliament. I also don't exculpate us from a certain responsibility, so I'm talking about myself, not to anyone else, and the fact that there's really not enough of us in the assembly at some point. But I think that when this darkness has already been launched, there is no need to exculpate any lack of communication that we as a Croatian Parliament, regardless of the presence of journalists, have as an institution with media representatives, and perhaps the fact that sometimes in this communication we set ourselves up quite defensively and are not particularly ready for those representing the Croatian Parliament or the president and his presidency to speak loudly enough about it and to express what the Croatian Parliament is doing, all of those activities that the Croatian Parliament is carrying out, and these activities have indeed not only quite through the work of plenary sessions. And there might be a proposal almost at all if no communication strategy had been observed either the President or the Croatian Parliament Presidency, almost no notice or absence of any media service that would really represent and present the work of the Croatian Parliament not only again through these plenary sessions, which it is generally the only one through which it is generally only recognized. And I think that in this communication strategy of the Croatian Parliament and this rating that the Croatian Parliament enjoys today, which is not certainly good, it may also be necessary to bring discussions between clubs, and certainly in the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, we propose that we should discuss it and see which ways we should be able to communicate a little more with what the Croatian Parliament is doing and all those activities that the Croatian Parliament is carrying out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55120	Thank you very much. Now, a colleague of the Mlakar says this is an important topic to discuss with so few MPs. The importance of this topic is not to blame that the representative is so small. It's a matter of MPs, not the importance of the subject. It's not true that anyone said we'd only be doing two points today. One point has been announced and we are said to be working within two hours. It is not true what counterpart Vuksic says that we have the wrong way of working because we are discussing some issues in the evening. If we're going to work all day, we can't discuss everything in the morning, I guess that makes sense. It is not true that anyone wants to do something quickly, and if there is a desire and an interest of the representatives of the HDSSB, as said Drazen Djurovic, then all HDSSB representatives should be here now in this Chamber. Therefore, none of these reasons would be sufficient nor cumulatively indicated to interrupt the session now. But there's one we're going to interrupt the session for, that's because three opposition clubs are looking for it and it won't cancel out the will of the three opposition clubs. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue on Tuesday with that point. Session interrupted at 14.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55121	Good morning. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you on behalf of the regulatory agency on behalf of the board of directors and on behalf of myself. Let me try to brief you on the report on Hera's 2012 work as well as the report on the achievement of the budget. Both of these documents, in accordance with Hera's legal obligations, were sent to the procedure by the end of the 1st half of this year. I'm glad to say that because about six months ago we saw each other in this same circle when I was presenting the 2011 Report, which HERA is this time at a pace I'm glad we're catching the intensity of the job that's usually growing. I intend to try to tell you briefly what HERA's obligations in 2012 have changed significantly compared to the period prior to that in particular in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the beginning of the current year there have been significant changes in the powers, obligations and competences of HERA. In recent stages before EU entry, the Regulatory Agency has become fully compatible with its counterparts from the other 27 EU Member States at the time, so that both the picture and the activities of HERA have changed significantly compared to the previous period, and thus to earlier reports. In addition to the illustration of the obligations, I will try to tell you something about this changed role, after which we will try to give a brief assessment of the situation in the Croatian energy sectors. This is one of the commitments that includes an annual report of a certain analysis and observations, I will try to comment on the overall trends in the market, of course also to address the achievement of the 2012 budget and to conclude with the tasks ahead of HERA in the upcoming period. You will allow me to occasionally explain 2012 and refer to current events. It is difficult in this period especially in 2013 where so many changes took place in the energy sector, such dynamics that occurred particularly in gas and electricity markets, so without a brief reference to current developments, it is also difficult to comment on 2012. So with a conclusion on the role of the public, the roles of those to whom energy regulation serves, and these are households and final customers and the European framework within which HERA continues to carry out its tasks that are really growing I will try to illustrate to you in this respect what was going on in 2012 with reflections on the current period. Only the report you have in front of you has been changed to some extent compared to the previous years. It respects the structure imposed on the Regulatory Agency by a company in which it has been located since 1.7.2013, so HERA has become as Croatia enters the EU and a member of the CER or the Council of European Regulators and ACERs, or the Board of Coordination of Regulators in Ljubljana. The structure of the report corresponds to what those bodies prescribe. In one good part, it deals with statistical indicators and seeks to see certain trends in Croatian energy, but it also refers to that new component that HERA has just received by amending the laws that I mentioned at the beginning, which is also to control and monitor the market and some of the recommendations on how the market should behave. Therefore, for the Regulatory Agency 2012, the year was first and foremost capital for the date of the 10th month when the new Energy Act and the new Energy Regulatory Act were adopted. There were the first two of the total four laws in the 4th quarter of 2012 and the 1st quarter of 2013 which made Croatia fully in line with the so-called 3.The EU energy regulation package has therefore become compatible with the European Energy Strategy, and thus the energy activity regulator, which was otherwise formed more than 10 years ago, has become a context-related regulator. In other words, HERA will always have its primary obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament, but it also receives the obligation to report to European authorities and the structure of this report is up to some, and in the coming period it may be even more noticeable. For us, this transition was primarily an addition to our activities so far. The energy regulatory agency was primarily founded to control that part of the energy market, the part of the energy verticals that cannot be exposed to the competition. So the traditional role of regulators in energy and so on is Croatian to control network activities. In order to control public services, to assess and valorise costs and hence provide objective prices or tariffs for the part of the energy services to be regulated. So these are electrical wires, these are gas pipes, and these are analogue components in other energy activities. With the third energy package that entered Croatia and the regulatory agency entered the fourth quarter of 2012 with the new Energy Regulatory Act, the scope also extended to the area of monitoring, to the area of market surveillance and market development in those parts where the market is going. This means simplistically, since the end of 2012 energy production and energy sales in all its forms have been fully market-based. These segments of energy supply chains that have the character of natural monopoly remain permanently regulated and are thus permanently regulated in Croatia. So, our traditionally to control transport, control distribution and control public service as such, expanded and responsible to markets. Of course, the regulatory agency is not the creator of energy policy, in any case the state, or its ministry. However, the regulatory agency shall implement in that segment relating to regulated activities and in that part relating to the market, strategy and regulatory principles. When I talk about the changed role of regulators, then I must say that it has put new challenges before the regulatory agency itself. Hera began to adapt to the upcoming period in 2012. Given that existing tasks do not go away but are only increasing probably also the pace of learning, the pace of attracting new expert personnel and all that needs to be done in order for this whole new scope of activity to be covered in 2011 has not yet gained its full dimension. However, this is also in 2013 and will in particular be one of the great obligations of HERA in the coming year. If you allow me to take a brief look at the assessment of the situation in the Croatian energy sectors, which I would not like to burden you for long because you have material with a series of statistics, I will try only to extract some of the most significant findings. The electricity sector with which these reviews usually begin in 2012 as opposed to the current year was probably the worst hydrology that HEP remembers in history while 2013 is the best hydrology. This already points to the fact that almost 30% of imports in 2012 are primarily related to the specific climateology of the period. However, in a certain way, it also points to the structure of the installed power in the Republic of Croatia, which has a total of over 4,000 megawatts, which is one serious capacity, but part of these traditional capacities will emerge from the plant in the coming period. And it is certain that the competent ministry in considering Croatia's energy strategy will also need to take care of it. Electricity, therefore, had significant imports in 2012, but the security of electricity supply was not threatened at any time during that year, nor should it be expected to happen. So, the development of the market is something I'm going to comment on at the end. At this point, there's a positive trend. And it could be said that by combining the infrastructure equipment of Croatian energy I am speaking here in a narrow sense, primarily about what European energy is the internal market, which is electricity and gas, so a combination of infrastructure assumptions, the combination of market development so far gives good signals. And we could say that security supplies in that fundamental sense whether energy for Croatian citizens was not even less questionable in 2012. And I believe that, of course, by continuing to act in that field, it can and should continue. However, security of supply as such has not been compromised in the year we are talking about here. That may be the most important message. I'll also talk about electricity. It also needs to be looked at for an hour by that component that ends in the form of electricity but is increasingly becoming almost a separate energy sector. We are therefore talking about renewable sources and highly efficient production of electricity, or cogeneration, as it is most often mentioned. Renewable sources are a permanent topic because of their general importance, because of their role in the European and Croatian energy strategies and policies. The renewable sources are something that has also been recorded in Croatia as well as in Europe an extremely great success. Thus, the development of renewable sources and investment in renewable sources has had almost expansion growth in Croatia as well. In 2012, the installed force grew 6 times compared to the year before it and reached some 175 installed megawatts which are an absolute amount does not sound much, however it really is a significant result. But everything in renewable sources, and here we are, of course, talking about solar energy and wind energy, and it's not always just pink. Similar processes have also occurred in Croatia, and in some ways in the European Union, renewable sources suffer from their own success. Solar power plants have become very attractive for investment given the incentive system that was launched since 2007, which has been experiencing certain modifications over the years. And in 2012, it was so interesting that there was a simplification of certain administrative procedures in that year so that there was something faster. Indeed, a number of new installations and a large number of new projects were registered in that year. But renewables especially in the segment of slightly larger objects, I mean wind power plants bring with them the other side of the medal. That's what it's all about. Intermittent discounted sources. Such a type of power plant that, on the one hand, meets our obligations and within the energy strategy where we are well on track to meet the requirements of 3 times 20. However, such systems introduce a particular problem to the entire power system because of the fact that they are in operation when the wind has a respectable wind when it has solar energy. This, of course, additionally burdens the transport system, it burdens disspecting and therefore such systems need certain adaptations. Some elements that were already in 2012, as well as in 2013, have led to a dilemma about how renewable policy will be managed in the future. The financial dimension should also be taken into account, so the incentive system must be able to raise enough money to pay all investors who have entered the system. On the other hand, the technical system must be able to accommodate its inter-minor sources, which means that it must have spare power plants that are able to quickly start and that it must have the capacity of the connection that supports it. In Croatia there is still a figure of about 400 megawatts, the upper limit of what could be accepted from wind energy, and all the way up to that point requires a certain technical adaptation. The regulatory agency does not have an executive role in this, but as an observer and follower of what is happening on the market, of course, it must notice these things that the branch has been discussing for several years. Similarly, the role of Regulatory Agency in the system of renewable sources is mainly at the end. So the Regulatory Agency gives those last components, those last documents, or permissions and consent so that sometimes it is seen and, let's say, a factor that can slow down this process. However, in any case, renewable sources are not so much in 2012, when they primarily record impressive results but in 2013, above all, the topic is of the highest interest of the professional public in the field of energy. As far as the natural gas sector is concerned, 2012 is an extremely important year and that year because in 2012 there was an actual real opening of the gas market. So opening the market is the goal of a complete liberalisation process that we have been leading as our strategy since the start of energy reform. This reform in 2012 and with the harmonisation of documents, but also through practice, has received a new dynamic. Because what happened in 2012? In the last quarter of 2012, the ceiling was abolished, i.e. the limitation of sales prices of gas in the segments of non-accuracy. This was an intervention measure that was used during 2012, despite the fact that the Croatian market has been open since 2007, i.e. 2008 in gas. So far, there has been virtually no alternative energy supply, i.e. no new energy supply providers have appeared. This only happened when price policy changed to a sufficient extent, or when prices were fired and came to a level that allowed new suppliers to enter the market. In gas, it happened just in the fourth quarter of 2012. It is interesting to note that the market that is sometimes mystified, but which is here in energy as set by Europe 15 years ago, and Croatia accepted around 2000, 2001, the market began to produce results in 2012 and 2013 in the area of economic gas and electricity. So we have concrete indicators that show that after the opening, after the removal of the price ceiling in electricity came, the market was adjusted upwards, but that's where I'm leaving in 2013, already in the first two quarters of this year we're recording a noticeable decline in sales prices of gas in the non-accuracy segment. We don't have that data in the number, since the regulator only works the control function, so our numbers are aggregated. The suppliers are not obliged to present their data on the market and are not obliged to present it to anyone other than I suppose fiscal units. But for us information is that somewhere between 7 in the first quarter and 15 to 18% in the second quarter, the price of gas sales to industrial customers fell, primarily due to competition. In this end of 2012, the natural gas market began to wave and one year after that process, so I am now talking about the autumn of 2013, Croatia can say that 25% of the natural gas market is in the hands of other suppliers compared to the dominant supplier who did so a year ago. 25% of the open market at national wholesale level is a result that no European country would be ashamed of during that period. So the market here works so I'm going to say that the whole system that is a combination of openings and regulation so far shows good trends and good directions. In the current in 2012, there have been no such phenomena, the first such phenomena will slowly begin to occur in 2013, but they also get a very serious pace that you are all aware of. So as far as gas itself is concerned, I think this is the dominant data to be said in 2012 and 2012 will remain important in this sector. In total absolute consumption figures, both electricity and gas did not grow during that period, although even in gas it recorded some slight decline, however it is fully consistent with the fourth or fifth recession year in a series so that in this context the data have a certain logic. As regards oil and petroleum products, in addition to further declines in domestic production, one very large increase in biofuel production should be highlighted. So almost 250% grew domestic production of biofuels in 2012 which, in the context of environmentally acceptable sources, also represents important data. Last but certainly not least is the heat sector. In 2012, there was one in a number of years in which the heat did not have much good news, the sector was chronically subinvested, it was ignored for years, it was completely priced and there was usually no room for investment in heat systems. Here, a change in 2013 has brought a new Heat Act, but since it is not the subject of this reporting can only point out that in this sense one attempt is made to move forward, so if electricity and gas are the topic of what we call the internal market of the European Union and the subject of the third package then in the heat sector a shift that has been made unnecessarily dictated by this part, however, there has been an effort to introduce the market in a way that heat systems have been centralized, separated from a few smaller systems which give the possibility of an independent choice of energy suppliers or energy suppliers. The trend we left behind in 2012 which was continued in 2013 has, above all, features of a good effect, according to our assessment of the good effect of the market but also the huge upcoming tasks needed to monitor this market, so that it is primarily what is the task of regulators, among other factors, to be stable, to be well equipped with implementing documents. And in that sense, we have often been willing to sacrifice and speed on behalf of quality, to give what is ultimately important to customers, which is market stability, it is security of supply and it is a guarantee that they are price elements that are reliable and accurate to calculate in the hands of regulators. So when I talk about that part of the regulator's obligations, it might be important to note that public service, its continuity is something that is important for the regulator's tasks. I mention this because I said that the reason for this is probably the continuity of the recession in 2012 began to feel both at the level of customers and at the level of energy subjects the effects of inequitableness. So it was the first time that there was a signal that certain energy entities are performing public service in potential financial problems. This trend will continue in 2013 and in 2013 we will have the first case in Croatia where one energy entity has lost its license because it has violated the preconditions that it has been authorised to work in energy activities and has had to be replaced by another operator, or another service provider. Here it was important that the regulatory agency succeeded, even though I say it concerns 2013. However, the trend has begun and the processes have started since 2012. He managed to find a way to ensure the continuity of energy supply and in situations where individual energy entities are indivisible, due to their financial problems they are de facto failing and failing to make pre-fashion deals. This is something that marked more significantly in 2013, but some lessons have been learned and we hope that this continuity that is dominant of the interest of everything will be retained. This was therefore briefly about the situation and some observations on the market. Let me briefly refer to the second part of this report, i.e. the second component of my report today, which is the achievement of HERA's 2012 budget. I would like to remind you that the sources of funding for HERA are energy entities operating on the basis of an energy activity permit, with 0.5 per cent of their revenue per year, revenue from the sale of goods and services. That's why it's always a license. So whoever's a licensed energy entity is bound by this fee. It is equally a matter of a significantly smaller scale and of one-time payments to carry out specific activities. HERA is independent of both energy operators, political circles and investors as well as in the financing component, according to the oatmeals written in the EU's very principles. So it allocates a certain system, a certain way of collecting funds. It must be and must be able to prove its independence in the use of that budget and to fulfil its tasks. In 2012, there was a surplus of revenue over expenditure at a level of slightly less than 8 million kuna. So the revenues were higher than the expenditure. The main reason for this fact is in 2012 as a specific year in the development of HERA. In fact, HERA spent about 5 months without the Governing Council, or without the President of the Governing Council in the right sense of the word. And given that during the period between the resignation of the former President of the Governing Council and my appointment at the end of the summer, that is to say, at the beginning of autumn there was one period during which technical affairs were actually carried out, routinely. But it didn't get into any more serious costs, so there's a trunk on the spending side that HERA had in 2012. Equally the biggest financial commitments and the reason why we try to keep one robust financing structure is all that comes with the third package. In addition to professional completion, it is also about the need for an energy agency to take some further steps towards expertise that will occasionally not be available on the Croatian market. Therefore, on the one hand, HERA must be competent to retain existing people and attract new experts in a very narrowly specific area, and on the other hand it must be able and fulfil all its tasks which are indeed numerous and demanding and occasional involvement of international experts. That hasn't happened yet. However, it is inevitable because it is a process that is analogous in all European 28 regulators. In 2012, this was not the case, among others, and because energy laws were passed only at the end of the year. They were expected significantly earlier, so we had practically relative to some planned figures and planned positions of difference. So there was this surplus that amounted to slightly less than 8 million kuna. However, we consider it a robust financing of the regulatory agency in view of its tasks to be one of the essential elements and I hope this is not seen as a particular problem. And in the end, I'm not exhausting your patience just a few final comments. The Energy Regulation Act in 4th quarter of 2012 has fulfilled some 7-8 pages with additional tasks of the regulatory agency. It's not in itself a problem. It is an extremely numerous and extremely significant and responsible extension of the tasks and obligations of the regulator. It's just as completely comparable to what's going on in Europe because every regulator actually works in one triangle. On the one hand, there are domestic customers and domestic energy entities whose stability needs to be maintained. On the other hand, there are principles of regulation, i.e. principles, mathematics and theory to be implemented in its practice. On the third hand, there is a very dynamic European scene in the field of energy. The EU still has a date of 31.12.2014, so in just 14 months until when it is necessary and necessary and still acts in a way that will create a fully unified, completely single internal market for electricity and gas. Until then, all implementing documents at EU level should be brought in to trade between Croatia, Spain and Norway without major technical or commercial problems. So, if such a process takes place dynamically in Croatia, there is also a dynamic process in Europe, and our basic concern is taking place and that is the concern for our customers. If liberalisation doesn't have its positive effects on the final buyer, first of all on the most vulnerable component, so on the household, then regulation didn't basically have its effect and liberalisation didn't make sense. These are therefore parallel objectives that the regulator must meet. I hope that 2012 was the beginning of the movement of one stopper, 2013 is a time of terrible effort to reach deadlines. Somewhere between 6 and 12 months, depending on which of the laws, Croatia and this HERA should particularly adapt their implementing acts to new energy laws. In fact, there is also a new Electricity Act, the new Gas Market Act adopted somewhere in the spring of this year. All of this is an extremely difficult, extremely responsible period. I hope that with your support, with your control that we will succeed in this mission or that we will at least succeed in this mission that does not have its visible end but which has exceptional responsibility and seriousness in the context of Croatian energy. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55122	Thank you too, Mr. President of the Board of Directors. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55123	Thank you. Well, I want to replicate several elements of Mr. Jurekovic's exposure. In fact, he pointed out on several occasions how important the role of an independent regulator is. I absolutely agree with him because under the circumstances of market liberalisation as gas, how electricity really matters to the regulator to do the job properly. What should be kept in mind, in addition to the laws that the regulator ultimately needs to monitor, is the need to discuss the Energy Development Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2009 and that we know very well that it is not being implemented in practice because it is set on completely wrong foundations. In fact, GDP growth in years to come is projected to be 5%, and we know what the current situation is. You have also touched on renewable energy sources and I will now talk a little bit about the National Action Plan for Renewable Energy, which the Government recently adopted and which certainly will not lead to the achievement of the 20/20/20 targets, and I think the regulator should have responded to that situation as well. The question is, what about the nets? How much is in the transfer? What about the Hera Administrative Council competition? And it is my impression that, in general, the Ministry of Economy does not know enough of the laws relating to, or Directives from the third European energy package, which could have been seen at the end and for example this summer when there was a discrepancies regarding the reduction of electricity prices and it seems to me to be now seen with the election of a member of the Governing Council. Namely, if we want to ensure the independence of the work of the regulators then the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot choose and propose to the Croatian Assembly of the members of the Governing Council of HERA.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55124	Thank you very much. Time's up. Would you like to respond to the replica of the Honorable President of the Governing Council? Here you go. The replica of respected Tomislav Jurekovic. Stand up and engage. Standing up, please, President standing up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55125	Okay, okay. Excuse me. Thank you very much. Look, I agree that energy policy, i.e. the debate on the Energy Policy Strategy, is something that the regulator should take part in, but I think that the end of this year when HERA will, for the first time, publish reports on the investigation of the electricity market, or gas, of which one part of it will work together with another executive agency, i.e. with the Competition Protection Agency, may be the form of a concrete contribution that the regulator must make. In fact, I'm allowing it to be part of my personal position. I'm advocating one of the perhaps somewhat discreet roles of regulators in those components of implementing policy. I believe that we can give our input, but I think, ultimately, the determination of the basic guidelines and elements of energy policy is the part in which even some of the principles of the third package defends the regulator to appear directly. So we have our observations and our recommendations. The fact is that the strategy, i.e. strategic assumptions, changed compared to 2007. We will certainly be invited to comment on any modification of the strategy. For now, however, it was not a practice to be drivers of such a thing except perhaps at an informal professional level. As far as the National Plan for Renewable Sources is concerned, we are probably also because we are currently involved in a lot of writing, testing, implementing acts we have been to some extent on the sidelines of this process. Our colleague was involved in the process but I would say that he remained to some extent on the periphery of our primary activities. I agree that's not enough and that's not good enough. I'm also asking for an understanding in the context of the fact that our capacities are limited to some extent, so we probably didn't give everything we needed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55126	Thank you very much. Time's up. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55127	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Governing Council of HERA. You were here talking about the report on the realisation of the HERA's budget. She can't have a budget, she can have a plan of receipts and expenses and can have a financial plan. So the document that came to this House is simply not responding to what it is because the budget can only be known to the units of local self-government, regional and state. All budgetary and extra-financial users have their own financial plans, and so do you. But what has offered me along with this is this fascinating look when a state agency has to have a report for the report must have a publisher, must have a editor-in-chief, must have editors, must pay someone to print it all together and then to print it out in 100 copies but before it is adopted by this House of Commons. That's great. That best speaks of how it works and how it works in this country. This report is only when this House adopts it then is some document that you can publish and publish, until then it can have neither the editor-in-chief nor the editor-in-chief nor anyone but precisely know who is reporting in this House and who is responsible for this report. And I think Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that we simply as parliamentary representatives out of respect for Croatian citizens who are paying very expensive things like this we must not allow you to think of publishers and editors for 100 copies. Well, those 100 copies aren't even enough for parliamentary representatives. And I think it would be far more important that what my colleague Holly said was that this report be given to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55128	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed President of the Governing Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55129	This is a report if I'm not mistaken cost some 1,200 kunas in style. So the only wish was for respected gentlemen to be Assembly representatives to get material that was a little bit more clean and something better-looking than the one that looked half-shamed six months ago. 100 copies is something you practically know yourself so it was done completely and I apologize on behalf of my relationship with the public who felt the need to call us all editors or something like that, but really my intention was just to make this document look a little bit more polite at this stage of conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55130	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55131	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable President of the Governing Council in 2013 came from the arrival of competition for the electricity market. For now, on the gas market, we heard from your report that the arrival of competition did not result in a reduction in gas prices for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We remember the 1970s when gasification in the Republic of Croatia gas was super cheap energy, today the fact that gas is too expensive compared to our economic opportunities, especially for our pensioners where winter wars are up to 50% of the average Croatian pension. My question is, can Croatia's citizens expect a reduction in the price of gas by coming to the competition and when can I expect it? Is it this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55132	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55133	Very short. So the fact is that by opening up the market and introducing the market as a regulatory element in one part of the energy activity, all customers are exposed to dynamics that are not always under absolute control. The fact that in electricity at this point, competition is not an accident. This is a time when in the Croatian environment on short-term markets on the electricity markets, electricity can be obtained quite favorably. The fact that we have pressure down at this time and relatively thanks to the competition that exists and the relatively acceptable price of electricity is again proportional to our receipts, but the favourable prices of el. energy are due to the situation on the market. The offer is large and can be obtained from relatively cheap electricity. Unfortunately, that is not the case in gas in Europe. The price currently paid by households in Croatia so the level of 2-20 before VAT is the price that is regulated. It is approximately very difficult to estimate somewhere, but not even on the most efficient, fastest markets where currently gas can be purchased probably no one in Croatia can deliver this time of gas below that price. At the beginning of 2014, the contractual and legal relations that define gas supplies as they are today cease to be, therefore, the supply for households. It is likely that the legislator, in the meantime and in addition to our suggestions, will replace it with some gradual period, but should be aware that the market as such brings better and worse stages, that we must accept that at some point in time a particular energy will be more favourable or less favourable to the market. As far as gas is concerned, I regret that I cannot assume in the short term that there could be a significant reduction, but it is not excluded if the system is properly set up. What's important from HERA's position is that in any case, we're going to advocate that this gas accessibility is one of the leading elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55134	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDZ's Club of Representatives and the Honorable Representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55135	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Board of Directors, dear colleagues and colleagues. HERA is established by the Energy Regulation Act which prescribes HERA to be an independent, independent and non-profit legal person with public powers to regulate energy activities. Here we have heard in the first replicas and discussions how real this independence and concern of the government about independence is because last year, the HERA was working without a president, and today the administrative council is not complete. The new energy law neither implements the 3rd EU HERA energy package has significantly changed the role and importance of particularly in the context of ensuring the development and control of the functioning of the liberalised energy market. In doing so, it is important to highlight two key areas of its action within the framework of national and European areas. As Croatia enters the European Union and HERA, it becomes a member of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ACER and CER, which gives it the opportunity to participate actively in the creation of an energy policy of the European Union, together with other national authorities, to work actively to create a common European energy market. To remind the European Union aims to achieve a truly functioning internal energy market in 2014 with the aim of providing users with better products and services, more competition and more security of supply. The report on Hera's work, which is in front of us enough, shows and shows the state of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. It points to trends as well as the problems and chaos in which this sector has been found over the past two years. It is already concluded in the introduction that a stagnation or fall in energy consumption has been recorded. The trend of purchasing power and liquidity has continued, resulting in an increase in the share of outstanding claims from customers of energy and energy entities, which has also increased the number of customers who, as a last step, have been suspended from supplying energy to both public and private, i.e. the economic sector and citizens. It is necessary to remember here what has happened in the government's direction with electricity and gas for the past two years. One of the biggest hits on citizens' living standards and economic costs was the increase in energy prices in the fifth month of last year. In addition to the tax press, this act directly contributed to the deepening of the crisis because it had a strong impact on the income available to citizens and on purchasing power, on reducing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which, of course, resulted in a decline in consumption, a decline in production, and all the consequences of these decisions unfortunately come at the expense of every day. The former government was then accused of deciding not to increase energy prices at the time of recession and crisis to destroy HEP despite high profits as a state monopoly both in 2010 and in 2011. That INA is being destroyed even though in 2010 it makes more than 2 billion kunas. That there are no investments due to this restriction, that 20 and 30% increase in electricity and gas prices will lead to the HEP and INA investment renaissance. The only Renaissance unfortunately experienced dozens of political counterparts employed in public enterprises. The results are just as we can see the disaster. Unfortunately, the investment is no longer on paper and the government itself is heard by ministers now suddenly turning to calling private sector investment, which it also accuses as the main culprit for the economic policy's collapse. But the absurds don't end there. As we have seen back a few months in the field of electricity supply, suddenly companies that are able to offer customers lower prices of electricity, which in ministers is causing obvious shock and infidelity, so we witness the daily transfer of responsibility to the triangle ministry, HEP, HERA. Because how to explain to the public that the claims made a year ago about the necessity of an increase in electricity prices were in fact a huge delusion of the public and one in a series of harmful decisions both for the citizens and for the economy but obviously for the HEP itself. How many vague and mixed arguments were made by HEP, ministry and HERA when no one could explain to the people why electricity prices cannot be reduced by HEP. And it was so easy to make noises when the need to collect was announced a year ago, and then it didn't take three or I don't know how many months of tension and mutual accusation as it was now when it was decided to cut prices. When it happened, we watched the show presses of the Minister and the leadership of HEP, although in a dubious minister's role, because he is not only the Minister of HEP, although of course he participates in the management as owner, but he is also Minister of RWE and GEM and any other economic entity in the Republic of Croatia. But neither today nor today have we heard the answer to the question of why electricity prices could now be reduced and why this attack on citizens and the economy had to happen a year and a half ago. As we know, it didn't last long, and here a few days ago, the reunion was due to an increase in compensation for renewable sources. In addition to the inevitable appeal and the government's claim that suppliers will take this up on themselves. So here's how it ended, and we also saw in the presentation of the views of the suppliers themselves who said there's no way. It does not matter what role HERA played, although both the ministry and HEP tried to transfer responsibility to regulators. It already shows in this case what level of incompetence is present today in the structures of the government, so as in other segments, we have to ask ourselves what our energy future really is. This question can be partly seen in this report in the section on security of supply. It is noted that the security of electricity supply can deteriorate significantly by 2020. So, we heard in the opening report that in 2012 it was not a security risk, in 2013, it might be a little more and every next one will be even more because in the period until 2012, it is necessary to withdraw from the power plant over 1100 megawatts in the time-consuming thermoelectric power plants. We've heard that the total power is currently installed somewhere around 4,000 megawatts of its own power sources. The requirement of maintaining the security of electricity supply is to build new production units. It should be warned that unless it is accompanied by the construction of classical power plants exclusively for the construction of renewable energy sources, in particular wind power plants, it will not solve the security of the system itself. When we talk and talk about a renewables plan, none of it will be if the HEP continues to pursue its policy, i.e. not providing network capacity so that renewable sources can be connected to the network system. There is nothing happening and many projects in serious megawatts are definitely standing and cannot be realized because they have nothing to join. So it's a very clear message that requires an answer to the question of where investments are in the classic source of electricity. What about the bombing announcements about the construction of hydropower plants, thermal power plants and whether or not we're going to lose our own power sources by 2020. Of course, the question cannot be answered by HERA, and the question is whether anyone from this government can do it anyway. The report also addresses gas and oil and heat sectors. And in the gas sector in 2012, we record a decline in consumption by which we are likely to be unique in the world. Croatia has built 2530 km of gas pipeline with two interconnections towards Slovenia and Hungary's relatively satisfactory level of security and diversification of the source. The domestic sources in supply participate at 59.4%, so much last year but we know that these sources provide an increasing percentage of gas from domestic consumption. The rest is imported. The total quantity obtained in Croatia was 26.6 million kilowatt hours. In 2012, another important change occurred from what the introduction said, which is the unit of measurement for consumers. We no longer measure consumption in cubic meters than in kilowatt hours, which is basically fine, but we need to know that our numbers remain in cubic meters, and as consumers we can only believe that we are being delivered to these cubes the amount of energy we pay for. This change was also used by the government last year at the moment of gas collection, so it was not possible to compare the price in the first wave, all with the intention of covering up the fact that gas was collected last year in some distribution areas for final customers more than 30 per cent. No significant investment has been recorded in this sector either in the transfer or in the warehouse. Who still remembers announcements from Qatar and LNG terminals, parading the first vice president and other ministers or warehouses in the Grubish field. Only LNG left is the Croatian phantom company in which the directors from Plinarro ended up. As far as the oil sector is concerned, it's interesting to look at a few information related to JANAF. In 2012, a total of 4.5 million tonnes of crude oil was transported through the pipeline system, 15% less than in 2011, at least in the last eight years, 30% less than in 2010 or almost twice as much as in 2005. This is an interesting piece of information for JANAF shareholders. It would be interesting to see how the JANAF Assembly reacted to this and how this and what could be explained. However, it is worth saying that in 2012 investments in terminals in Sisak and Omislje were completed, a total of about 500 thousand cubic metres of capacity, but in addition to the completion of the found, we see that nothing new about the investment is happening. In part of the report on oil and petroleum products, key data on the production of crude oil from domestic fields and what trends are missing. There is also a lack of information on the consumption of petroleum products. Unfortunately, other sources say the fall is particularly in the consumption of diesel, which is not surprising given the collapse of the economy. As regards the security of oil supply and derivatives, the report did not specifically mention the fact that the government took the HANDA’s independence and did not state to what extent this fact could affect the safety of the maintenance of mandatory oil and petroleum products. It is also a noticeable inequality in the approach when it comes to security of electricity supply compared to the same issue of gas and oil, and I believe that there would be something to say on this subject and that we have been denied for serious analysis of the situation and potential risks. In addition, this is the only opportunity to speak in the Croatian Parliament at all about energy and what happens in this area, except when some laws come. It is therefore important that we have an opportunity to read in this account. This report is particularly detailed in some parts, perhaps too much, while in others it is insufficient. We expect the 2013 report to give quality insight into the state of the energy system of equal quality in all segments, as well as information on what Croatia is doing as a full member of the European Union to ensure the right place on Europe's energy map. Here and finally, we will accept this report but with the conclusion that even in this segment of the economy, the situation is worse than ever, that at the level of management of all parts of the system, from government to public enterprises, there has been a significant collapse of competence, knowledge and ability, that investments in the development of energy infrastructure are gone, that our energy consumption is falling, but that is why we are growing and priced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55136	Thank you, Your Honor. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55137	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would briefly refer to the presentation of my fellow Poppies in relation to the stated fact of chaos, it is true that the syntagma, the chaos in the price sense in general in the energy system and the market in Croatia. In fact, you are probably familiar with the fact that the European Union has announced a policy change towards the European aluminium industry because they have realised that the share of electricity in the production of a ton of aluminium in Europe is too high. In addition to a number of other sub-legislative acts, HERA also adopted a methodology for determining the amount of tariff items for the supply of electricity with a view to introducing transparent market conditions for the purchase and sale of electricity. In this very complex story in this HERA Report that we are discussing today, many of the relations of the state, HERA, traders, producers, customers, consumers, etc. are intertwined. And I ask you how to explain to the public that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HEP and HERA have not long been able to find a solution to the problems created between TLM Sibenik and their main business partner Aluminium from Mostar, which is why the Aluminium supplies raw materials have almost been shut down by both companies. And please nice Republic of Croatia is in the ownership or co-ownership structure of both business entities. Who guarantees that this will not be repeated soon with the same entities, and is not there here a state's total concern about the fate of these significant economic operators and Croatian employees in which we have witnessed in many other entities that are already in the pre-determined settlement, which are in front of liquidation? Before closing people went to the street, etc. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55138	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55139	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Yeah, you're right. Many examples of the government's full concern for economic operators and throughout Croatia could be arranged here. But here you also mentioned those economic operators that are partly owned by it and are deeply related to serious production capacities in Croatia. So, the aluminum itself is directly bound to TLM and without that relationship TLM in Sibenik actually doesn't exist. We had a serious crisis in 2010, 2011 and we knew how to solve it. We have clearly found a very transparent and legal way of ensuring that TLM is supplied with quality aluminium, and also from the Mostar plant, while ensuring that HEP is able to deliver electricity legally to the Aluminium itself. We see that the government is raising its hands from any of the problems, that it is not coping with the situation, and unfortunately here are the daily results and the economic picture just further confirms it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55140	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55141	Thank you very much. Mr. Popper, you spoke of Hera's independence as an institution in its action. By the time we talk about it, then here and it says on page six that since 1 May 2012, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the price of electricity has been raised by 20%. It's illustrated clearly and loudly who's really in charge of HERA. In view of this addition and the severe one, I would say a tax bite to the blood that this government has whines too much on its inhabitants, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have carried out and you are likely to witness that many households in the Republic of Croatia are crossing and the data shows that the consumption of electricity on here is now going to winter, to the heating of wood. So you cut as much energy as possible in your households. In Slavonski Brod, in Brod-Posavina County, especially by villages or mainly by villages many, many switch to wood heating even though they have installed gas and gas installations and electricity. But here's the phenomenon is mass, I'd say. You might have some information about that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55142	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55143	Thank you very much. You've seen that well for your colleague. So it seems to me that even then on May 1st, two thousand or when 12 years somewhere at that time I would say even illegally the government approved an increase in price because on the basis of the old approval of HERA it approved that increase that HEP did not seek a new analysis for this increase. So, HERA issued an opinion because at the time she had the possibility to issue only the opinion that this price increase was justified from her point of view in 2011, we estimated that it was not justified, of course for many reasons because we were in the middle of a crisis and we did not allow another blow team more than HEP realized that that year over a billion kuna had earned profits. The result in 2012 is that HEP has secured the profit of 800 million kuna and that we do not, of course, repeat stories about these investments. Unfortunately, nothing was done. And now the result is, of course, a blow to both citizens and the economy, deepening the crisis, and we see that both indirect or direct effects are consumer loss, consumer loss and, of course, a sensitive reduction in consumption both in the private and economic sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55144	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55145	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you have also touched on the discussion of renewable energy sources and the increase of prices for renewable energy sources in electricity prices. I will just remind you that the campaign that you were campaigning for while you were in the past government has stimulated investment in renewable energy sources and signed contracts, pre-contracts that oblige the Croatian state, or HEP to pay extremely large amounts in terms of preferential prices, which is essentially a threat to the system, because, in fact, for investments that we wake up to 10% of domestic investment, domestic renewable energy capacities when it comes to such investments... an extremely large commitment of the Croatian state, and for that, there is essentially no major return and effect and extremely great commitment. And you mentioned the network itself, nor did you secure the network and prepare it to accept such large amounts of renewable energy that you then predicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55146	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, just one little correction. HEP does not pay any amounts to producers of electricity but it is an intermediary in the collection and HROTE is the institution that pays the compensation to producers. Croatia will have to meet its requirements by 2020, those 20/20/20. I just wanted to say, of course, that this will be difficult with the fact that HEP in the development of network infrastructure that is able to accept these renewable sources in serious energy values will not be able to. So wherever it is tried to build any more serious facility at logical locations, there are serious problems involving such energy entities, and this is going to happen and happening with conventional sources, and so we see that the problems of providing connections to a network of large investment operations of gas power plants are 500, 600 or more megawatts. Why don't investments happen in that part? Here's a chance for you to answer that. If we haven't prepared anything but here's two years, I guess it's enough to at least prepare the project documentation and start doing something for God's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55148	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55149	Thank you very much. You were talking about a gathering, unwarranted, but I wonder what it is if it's an unwarranted collection that's the role of a regulatory body? Well, isn't every regulatory agency expected to benefit from the general benefits of strengthening competition, better quality services and lower prices. The council president himself said regulation does not make sense if the end consumer is not satisfied. And I wonder who is satisfied in Croatia with the quality of the service and the price of the energy? I don't know anybody. Who can be satisfied with the price of a 30% increase in electricity and gas prices? So who can be satisfied with such a decision? But the gathering was just being agreed by HERA. On what grounds did she give consent? How did she get the calculation? That's unknown. Because that's what the government suggested. So when the government proposes and the reduction then they say there's a justifiable reduction. And what did HERA do? What did she stop, what did she do more favorably? What's better for the consumer today than before? Instead of one account, he gets two bills and significantly more expensive. Is that the sense of the existence of a regulatory agency? I don't think so. And because of those who suffer because of such and regulatory agencies and policies, the official economic policy, because of those whom the heating price freezes and does not warm them, because of those who are socially endangered cannot accept any report or policy, such economic policy, or HERA report because they cannot justify their squares, their wages, their cars, or the sense of existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55150	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55151	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague, of course, is here in part and we agree on the assessment. I speak at the level of the technical functioning of regulators which essentially without this dimension that you mention relatively correctly and do their job but therefore there is a government that ultimately has to evaluate and a much wider aspect than the technical aspect itself. However, now that the government has given up and these responsibilities will now essentially be much greater responsibility on HERA and in this other context. Because it is the only HERA that will stand between the requirements and perhaps even the cartel arrangement of individual energy entities in the area of gas, electricity and citizens and consumers. And what's going to happen here? This should indeed be seen, observed and appreciated and demanded by HERA that, besides not only at this technical level, it assesses whether something is justified or not, but also the overall context of the effects on the public and on the economy and on what the consequences of their decision in the future and what effects it will have in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55152	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55153	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow drinker, don't you think that in this report, with one such drying finding, it should have been if someone independent, then it was necessary to make an independent statement of opinion? Because it is the easiest decision to make for the citizens of Zagreb, Velika Gorica, Samobor, Sisak and Osijek to raise the price of heating 37%. And what's the consequence? Does one who supplies them with heat need to do something technical to reduce this price increase? Not that a building of 50, 60 or 100 apartments is all paid for by the court, so where did it crack? So, I think there should have been a finding in that report. And as for the famous renaissance of HEP and some other public enterprises, it was the backdrop of the government's economic policy. So they said that the generator of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia would be investments through public enterprises. And the condition for that is a 20% increase in price. And what happened in the end? You have 8.9 directors, 15 counselors at HEP. PLINACRO has built highway pipelines all over Croatia with one member of the administration. Now there are five board members and ask God how many counselors. I think it should be an independent regulator's opinion, but obviously not. And now how much this renaissance in the economic swing and investment of public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia costs citizens on average per month. And when you add those 8.8% VAT increases, that's about 500 kuna per month for the average Croatian family. Whether an independent regulator should have said that given the standard, etc. Sometimes there are other things to think about, not just quasilibralization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55154	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, a colleague of yours well noticed that the effects of that collection on energy subjects were only by increasing their profits without a single kuna as far as we could see except for the elemental maintenance of the plant was not invested anything. All announced projects, in fact we don't even know who they are or whether they exist anymore, are mostly nothing happening around Plomin or about other HE projects. Let's just remember the famous projects... and everything that's happened and it's logical that it can't happen because frequent changes in the management structures are not only at the top of the administrations but shifts in all the levels of management in these energy companies, they've led to a complete blockade of the system, nothing happens lately, and we don't see that there's going to be any more serious shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55156	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP Club in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55157	Dear President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Board of Directors, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, here is the report by HERA for 2012 which was one of the most important years in Croatia's energy coordination with the EU acquis because what is most important for citizens and for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia is the coming of competition. Everything can and everything can be discussed, many things can be talked about why in 20 years the Croatian state has not been made, but what is quite certain is that the coming of competition itself will stimulate many of the processes that have lagging behind in the public sector or in state companies. The reform process, i.e. the reorganisation, liberalisation and opening of the electricity market, was in serious stalemate from 2001 to 2012 because a clear regulatory framework and a visible part of regulatory obligations were not in place and were not fully regulated. Since Croatia was at the very threshold of entry into the EU, it is clear in July 2013 that there must have been harmonisation and Croatia has paid full attention to this once I would dare say the most sensitive but also the most important compliance with the acquis communitaire i.e. the EU acquis with 4 key laws, hence the Energy Act, the Energy Regulation Act and the Law on the electricity market, the Law on the gas market, which was adopted later in 2013 by the two. What is important is that these adjustments are extended power of HERA, increased independence of the work itself and the agency and many powers of HERA transferred from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the regulatory body i.e. on HERA. Also due to Croatia's entry into the EU, as we have already heard HERA in activities as a member of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators and the member of the CER Council of European Energy Regulators. But what is extremely important is to draw a line and say what things are currently different from what was in 2009 when the Energy Development Strategy was adopted. So the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia adopted in 2009 from this perspective from this data is a completely missed document and this is evident. I don't want to say right now it was not even to move the ball that was the role of another government because it absolutely doesn't matter. It is important to change the whole strategy and adapt the framework of life and what can be achieved in Croatia, and Croatia is a country that lies on free energy. The energy of the sun, the wind, is simply our position, and Croatia can make the most of it. What was important was that in 2012, in this process of liberating administrative barriers and incentives precisely for building and increasing the number of installed forces using renewable energy sources and cogeneration, the number of objects and the number of requests received has not only increased but is currently waiting for about 5 to 6 thousand megawatts of demand for renewable energy sources. The network capacity in Croatia is around 4400 today, so much is worth the total 4,400 megawatts means so much is worth the total energy system in the Republic of Croatia. You have an example of a Czech Republic that also had a huge number of demands for the use of renewable energy sources and then one day they said just enough because that system, the incentive system simply can't take it. But what's important and what needs to be done is to make a new system to encourage the use of renewable energy sources and network connections. With the emphasis that should be placed on private people, it means to people who have their own house, who have their own property, as Germany did, and to direct themselves to the citizens. Because it's not the same if you encourage big companies that make a big profit or encourage citizens to have cheaper bills tomorrow. And we hope that this will just be one of the recent implementing acts to encourage greater use of renewable energy sources in Croatia, which in 2012 has been extremely evident from this report never seen more, never greater growth. So in 2012, this privilege status was achieved by 6 times the number of plants compared to in 2011, which is even 13 times more than in 2010. So, compared to 2010, this process has moved 1300% and 13 times, respectively. That should be kept in mind. But what should be kept in mind is also the capacity of the network because the network’s capacity is limited. Imagine that, for example. You theoretically approve 5 to 6 thousand megawatts and you have a network of 4400 megawatts, so it's simply impossible, so you need to define a system of incentives to use renewable energy sources and find, detect the controversial, neural point on the distribution network itself that has certain problems with accepting the plant from renewable energy sources. This is what needs to be done to redefine, I would dare say a new developmental, energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Because the one from 2009 that was brought here is totally full. That's what we warned you about back then. I personally discussed it because it wasn't based on analysis. It's based exclusively on some consultations, which would be if it were, and this document shows. So life, real opportunities, people, companies have completely denied that strategy and said that Croatia needs a new energy strategy. Because Croatia lies on free sources of energy. When it comes to regulation of gas activities, then it can be said that in 2012, in an energy sense, it was the year of the real opening of the natural gas market at a wholesale level and that is indeed the case, that is, competition. So, when the door opens to the competition, it's just that things are not the same anymore, and many things I admit many would like to put under the carpet just can't ignore anymore. Because competition also creates conditions for the better and more efficient business of all companies. Otherwise they disappear from the market. However, due to the economic downturn, gas consumption marked it at retail level as well in 2012. However, what is important to emphasise is that the shift in 2012 was achieved in the reduction of gas for entrepreneurship, so the reduction in gas prices was for entrepreneurship in 2012. It's an important shift. The fact is that relatively high gas prices are still high for industrial producers. So, this is one task ahead, I would dare say by market, industry, but also by those who create Croatia's energy policy, and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia how to encourage industry or lower the operating costs of industry that has been evident in Croatia for many years in decline. What you would add in addition to this report is what we definitely need to look back on, and that is that with the new energy package, the European energy package of laws, those four pieces that are here are being adopted is enhanced consumer protection. The protection of customers, which means that, under those laws, HERA introduces rules both in quality and determines the position of end-users to which special protection measures can be established because of the poor social status of vulnerable customers, poverty, disease, age and disability can be established. Or security reasons as protected customers. It is a serious shift that has come not for us but for the European Union. And this is another one I dare say proof by accepting the European Union's energy package that Croatia is introducing order by its own free will. So, we have introduced, we have begun to introduce order into the energy sector on this initiative from the European Union. That's what's good and that's what will ultimately have an effect for citizens and entrepreneurs. Therefore, opening the market, competition and cheaper service prices. And whoever hasn't adapted if it isn't HEP, if those aren't certain segments that are publicly owned, will pay the price of that adjustment. What is definitely important is that with the implementation of reforms, in order for the system to adapt to market business, it must simply not wait or delay. And finally, the HERA report, which is really extensive, is, in my opinion, a positive shift towards earlier reports, in that it contains an add-on to the assessment of the state of the energy sector and the energy market and that of electricity, natural gas energy and heat that we did not have before. What is extremely important is that the adoption of the European Energy Package has increased the powers of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the new challenge of HERA in the coming period, in the coming years there will be much more space to focus on reviews of the situation and developments in the electricity market itself. So this will be the task of HERA to regulate only the electricity and natural gas market in all its components, as well as the risks that follow such an opening of the market. There is a role of HERA simply inevitable and most important in the years to come. Here's why the SDP club will support this HERA report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55158	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, 5th is Roma language day. In the Croatian Parliament are participants of the Symposium Days of Roma Language. Please welcome them as parliamentarians. We want successful work, and we continue our work. [[Applause.]] It's the replicas. The first replica and respected representative, Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, in your effort to argue what is actually impossible, which is to show and point to the great achievements of this government in the field of energy, you have presented a series of inaccuracies and false allegations. First, competition in the area and gas and electricity did not begin in 2012, it began much earlier, over 36 gas distributors existed long ago. And the real possibility of competition did not begin with the regulations and laws that were passed last year, in fact, has nothing to do with it but to build an interconnector towards Hungary which became a second delivery direction and which began to have real effects only last year because it was launched in 2011. That's accurate information, so it has nothing to do with what she did or didn't do to this government in any regulatory sense. Second, energy regulation. So you sat in the Parliament for ten years, which you did not realize that since the first day of Croatia's adjustment to the EU legislation Croatia has gone through both the first and second packages and finally through the third. Could we conclude negotiations if we hadn't done so and that everything in the energy sector didn't happen exactly by these packages, which was dictated in the second package and separation and all that was necessary. It wouldn't have ended the negotiations. How can you say that only in 2011 or 2013 did Croatia experience some kind of shift or renaissance in regulation? That's just not true. As for renewable energy sources and the huge increase in energy approval, do you think that all megawatts that were installed, which were released in 2012 and 2013 that in the project sense, construction sense and all other senses began to work and build in 2012 and that they were completed and that all 170 and I don't know how many of those released megawatts...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55160	Thank you very much. Time's up, Your Honor. Replica reply, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55161	Well, here you are agreeing there was a problem. The fact, yes, wasn't too much of a solution. I would dare say to all the people who have been involved in energy in Croatia in the last 20 years, I would even dare say to all the ministers of the economy, and to you personally because you have had the opportunity to participate in this, but what is now important is to turn to the future, to reconsider the moment in which Croatia is now located and a new energy strategy is being created, and not only that, but an action plan for new incentives and investment in renewable energy sources because it is the necessary job. Croatia lies on free energy and Croatia needs to be used. And as for the European Council summit in Barcelona, which has been defined by the European strategy 20/20/20, it should be said that the European countries will mainly exceed these objectives and the 20/20/20 Strategy, and in close proximity Croatia will be quite certain. I'm totally convinced of that. It will be difficult for the network itself to change the incentive system into renewable energy sources. But I am also an optimist, Croatia will be able to say in 2020 that it has met the objectives set by the European Union, which concerns reducing CO2 consumption, i.e. CO2 emissions, increase energy efficiency and end-use 20% from renewable energy sources. I am absolutely sure that Croatia will fulfill it. The fact is that there will be difficulties, but that is why it is important that this redefined incentive system for renewable energy sources comes into the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55162	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55163	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardić, you are speaking to me from your personal thinking and your personal frames. Namely, you are talking about a system of stimulating the production of renewable energy, mainly for households such as in Germany which has a much smaller number of sunny days than Croatia and all of Slavonia and Dalmatia and all other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And you yourself know that incentives for such construction of such buildings on the roofs of houses or anywhere else have been stopped. Namely, you know that the 2009 Strategy has ordered or decided as you have decided to build the same, so the same 3C Plomin facility on coal. And in 2009, it was coal and your government, so I'm saying it's what you're saying, I guess from your own thinking, Plomin C remained as the main kind of electrical power-generating facility, and that's the energy called coal, and that's the fossil energy we all know well. Although you, with good intentions and good faith, say that in 2020, the three times 20 will be achieved. At a rate like this when we get 175 megawatts of electricity from wind power from 4000 installed power, which is 3 and a half, 4%. So the snail step will be difficult to achieve 3 times 20 by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55164	Replicate response, respected representative Davorin Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55165	First of all, I think how do you think I look at things from my own personal frame? I mean, how do you look at things? ... I think in this assembly we all need to talk from our personal corners, no, what we think is important as well. [[You can't hear it.]] So I'm gonna keep doing that, so don't blame me for having a personal attitude and an opinion. What is also important is to say that, of course, it is necessary to redefine the strategy. Well, that's what we're talking about right now. And if something's wrong, it needs to be changed. But that's why it is necessary to redefine the strategy that was adopted in 2009 and that it has failed. Because here's this report, this particular report completely disproves this implementation of the strategy. So four years after we can say that things didn't happen according to that strategy. As for the optimism of achieving renewable energy sources, so the 20% share now is the share so the power of renewable energy sources is at 250 megawatts in relation to the entire system of 4400. That's more than ten percent. So we have to go beyond that 250 megawatt power again and change the net. I'm an optimist that this is going to happen and it will certainly happen if things approach in a serious way, and I think this is the right way. Action plan for the use of renewable energy sources, which soon goes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55166	New replica and respected representative Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55167	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bernardic, you spoke in your debate about harmonising electricity and gas prices as the EU's legal asset. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot understand or accept the fact that the EU has practically set energy prices for us, and when it comes to salaries and pensions, they say it is an internal matter of the Republic of Croatia. The decline in consumption in 2012 also shows us that households, especially pensioners, are increasingly using energy for heating as a gas because their wars are astronomical and he practically had to choose whether they would be warm or hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55168	Reply to the replica, respected representative Davorin Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55169	It absolutely needs what is extremely important is the protection of pensioners and any form of heating that can be cheaper should be supported. But what is equally important to us, the EU does not set a price for us. The price determines a simple market. What the EU determines is a regulatory framework, as we voted for capitalism in Croatia in the 1990s, in this European referendum of Croatian citizens, most Croatian citizens voted for Croatia's entry and accession to the EU as a single foreign-political one, I would say to the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia, and we have therefore accepted certain obligations and responsibilities. But what's good in the entire energy package of laws is that you're just taking care of the protection of the most endangered. This is what is good and protection of customers, end-users, weaker ones, those who cannot achieve their right through and towards stronger ones, i.e. According to gas electricity suppliers, they can do so with their complaints via the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Therefore, to appeal to HERA who has received such requests 171 and if any tariff provision has been violated, if any price has been violated, if these prices are too high what citizens can do, citizens may complain to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, and this is the approach which essentially allowed consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55170	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and the replica of a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55171	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bernardic, you were talking about a system of adaptation to market business. And even regulatoryly, it is not easy to adapt to market business. However, I think that all of us here, for some political reasons, are probably forgetting about two key things when it comes to gas trade in the Republic of Croatia, which is, above all, interconnection towards Hungary. However, we also ignore the most important fact. It was crucial to bring the pipeline from the Slovak-Hungarian border to the Hungarian-Croatian border. That was why the interconnection hadn't been there in years. The second thing, what we keep forgetting when we talk about gas findings in the northern Adriatic, is that gas came to Croatia almost three years ago via Italy and Slovenia. It was only by building the Fažana-Zagreb pipeline that gas from the northern Adriatic began to come directly to the part belonging to the Republic of Croatia. However, the key thing is, and that is why I said that an independent agency should have talked more about it and when we talk about the market. So, a practical highway pipeline to Split was built. However, this pipeline and some kind of market if the number of consumers does not increase then it is very difficult to talk about a lower price. Here, INA petrochemicals at this point has the possibility of self-contracting the supply of gas with whoever they want, practically by this interaction to Hungary, they have opened up this possibility as well as any major consumer. However, what is a key problem is that the increase in gas prices occurred at the worst moment, at the moment of the major economic crisis, at the moment real income fell and at the moment of an increase in the number of unemployed. And it just can't have an independent regulatory agency blinding it like nothing's going on. Well, it's a key moment in the gas trade, it's a key thing. And it can't happen that the regulatory agency doesn't say a word of it. And that's the problem with this report and that's the problem with the market and that's what pisses the Croatian citizens off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55172	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55173	Well, first of all, it is necessary that the conditions for the construction of the pipeline are simply necessary to deliver. Because the state can choose whether it will remain an island for itself, whether it will have any energy available at all or allow it to be accessed. Of course Croatia chose to have that energy at its disposal and that's what's good, it's a normal job. So it's not for the special commendation of anyone who's been involved in this work and that interconnection, it's a normal simple job when the state decides to do it that way. But what is extremely important to point out when it comes to protecting citizens is that gas and gas prices are determined by means of wholesale market. What is important is that in retail simply everyone in 2012 failed to adapt to it. But I hope it's never a good time to raise the price, when's a good time to raise the price? Not one. It's always a bad time to raise the price. I personally feel sorry for any price hike, but unfortunately since mankind's increase in prices has been constantly happening. But what needs to be kept in mind and what needs to be taken into account is precisely to regulate this market, to regulate it in order to allow healthy competition to come because healthy competition will enable, potentially, the reduction of prices for end-users, i.e. entrepreneurs, or industrial producers, or citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55174	Honored representative Goran Maric and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55175	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Bernardiæ that this report is different from the previous reports, that it looks better in better shape. However, the form of reports to the Croatian Parliament is well known. Even the form doesn't satisfy that necessary form. Because this isn't press. The press needs the consent of the Ministry of Culture to be published. She's got a story, she's got a editor-in-chief and a publisher. It turns out that the content of this report is covered by the editor-in-chief. Mr. Clapo cannot be held accountable for the content of this report, as the President of the Council is responsible for the content of the report. So, in a formal sense, it doesn't fit. There should also be a brief report, which is also prescribed by the form. The same could have been nice without being treated like a press. It could have been printed in style in its own arrangement rather than in its own. However, in this report there is no need to be, and that is why prices are 30% increased once? Why? What are the reasons for that? They don't exist. There is no reason for something that has endangered the Croatian man. Well, according to the theory of the hierarchy of needs, human needs are the basic needs at the level of physiological needs for warmth. She's threatened, this is a blow to a man and nothing about this is said in this. It doesn't even talk about consumer subscriptions to protect consumers to say HEP does not allow the subscription to be included in future payments, but you have to go physically to raise money so more highways cost you, say, if it's in the apartment in Sibenik and fuel consumption than you have 500 kn subscription. About things like that. No one mentions the price of industrial energy that threatens economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55176	A respected colleague has been out for a long time. Time's been up a long time. Replica reply, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55177	Here's actually, I didn't realize from your debate whether you'd accept or reject the report? You, I think the representative of the club said that a report would be accepted if I understood correctly. You won't? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you have a different opinion at the club. That's good. I think it's a good thing and it's a democratic step. But what's important to mention I wouldn't look back at this page where it says, the fact is maybe it's unnecessary, what you said, but these things you technically listed as excesses in the report. The fact is that there may be too many technical details, that it is too wide for analysis here and needs of the Croatian Assembly because all accompanying documents, tables, analyses can stand especially and they can be downloaded and can be seen separately and there is no need to repeat. As there is no need to repeat, by specifying the ongoing obligations and tasks of HERA which are always an integral part of this report. That's what's important. The fact is that this report could be shorter and more content, but what I have to mention where its quality is compared to the previous reports is that it contains a supplement on the assessment of the situation. This is extremely important for energy sectors and the energy market. And that's the supplement that's important. And what I again mention will have to contain what will be the primary task of HERA, which is regulation of the electricity market and natural gas. And all the lack of faith that you have mentioned in your replica is certainly a question about things that are not mentioned in the report, I think you will certainly be answered by the President of the Governing Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55178	Thank you. We've exhausted the replicas of this exhibit. We are going to a new club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament Croatian Labourists and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55179	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. The Honorable President of the Governing Council of HERA. Well, I'll start with something I didn't mean. A fellow Bernardic boasted a few minutes ago that he had his own personal attitude then he was resented by his colleague Maric. Okay, he didn't mind it, but he found that he had his own position which is different from the club's position, but we were here to witness that people who are members of the ruling Kukuriku coalition criticized in the debates of the government's proposal and then raise their hands for the same proposal. I think this is better than that. But we're not gonna talk about it. I will begin my debate by quoting my colleague Grubisic from last debate on the same agency of the Agency Report for 2011 when he asked a question in one part of the debate about when the 2012 report will be and he hopes that we will not welcome Christmas with that report or that it will be before the summer break. Here's not Christmas, and we're already discussing this report, and it's not a criticism to you, is it? I can see that if I'm not mistaken in June, it's a kind of indicator of how we treat those agency reports. I think the reports of all the agencies, not just these, but in general all the agencies that, if I'm not mistaken, 185 said Minister Bauk had them, should be important. It should be some indicator to us, based on these reports to draw some conclusions, and ultimately, based on these reports, strategies should be drawn up. But in this country, the strategies are really relative, a few speakers before me mentioned it, and among other things, it mentioned that this 2009 strategy is actually inapplicable and we have a constant case of having or not having strategies or having them so they're dead letter on paper or we have them so they're really inconclusive. As far as this report itself is concerned, this isn't one of those 100, this is the report that we've received from all the representatives of 151, what do you say to him? The report is extensive, it says all my predecessors said and that there may be some technical details in it and that there is no leaving out that important segment. In any case, "the task of this agency is to monitor in particular the economic regulation of the work of regulated energy entities and the monitoring of their operations, and in the second part of the year to prepare a new environment for the Croatian energy sector of liberalised conditions of the open energy market in line with the so-called. 3rd pack of energy regulations." This is a quote from your report, calling for the EU Directive. In this case, I will not doubt the credibility of the translation of the directive at all because I believe so, but I will remind you that we have had not long ago problems as to whether something was translated correctly or not, so we have led all together into error or insecurity. But take this opportunity to remind myself that some directives are allegedly mistranslated, and therefore some of our companies are divided. We have passed a law on the division of these societies based on some directives that have not actually prescribed it. What am I saying that for? I'm saying this is about the opening statement of the President of the Governing Council, because in this presentation he mentioned the part that is inalienable, let's call it that, I think you used the word wire and pipe in one part to make it more understandable which is absolutely fine. But I will remind you that in time we said that the infrastructure part of HH is also inalienable, and yet this year we passed a law that even that infrastructure part can be given in a 50-year concession. A 50-year concession for me is the same thing as privatization no matter who thinks about it. In any case, this division of the possibility of division, I believe from this I think that you also support me, or so I read your text that HEP has chosen another way than HZ and that everything remains, let's say the entity that has a separate financial business from which each segment that is required by the directive is divisible. In any case, the primary reason for the creation of a single energy market is, according to the EU, the reduction in prices per reputation in the US market, especially for large consumers who are of exceptional importance to the competitiveness of the European economy. This sounds really logical and that when you look dry like that it should mean that liberalisation ultimately for the end-user to cost the service. But since I'm not usually a fan of this mass liberalisation and enthusiasm with it. I must point out that she has some consequences that are inevitable. When it comes to electricity production, it is certain that it is not the same predisposition everywhere, that they are not the same input parameters and that in some ways large players can destroy small players. Great players can destroy unprepared players, and unfortunately, HEP is one of them. As a consequence, I hope that we will avoid Croatia's complete dependence on imports. This may result in further loss of jobs in the HEP system. Especially when considering the age and condition of our power plants or energy systems. The collection of gas and electricity during 2012 makes it clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not include us in this story about liberalisation reducing prices for end-users. In fact, we have the result exactly the other way around. And what I think remains unsettled is how to protect not what my colleague Schemper said to the pensioners or to my colleague Bernardic I don't know which of them he mentioned but also those who are unemployed and those who are employed and who don't do it, do not get paid, how to protect these people. Is if they are unable to pay off the heating that my colleague Maric said because of their failure to pay them, you have abolished one of his basic needs in life. Minister Opacic announced some possibility that if I understood it correctly, the law would regulate the prolonging of the payment obligation. In my opinion, it's inconclusive because you can't commit someone on the free market by law to be, to take over the social part from the state. It will be the social institution that will live on the market, operates on that market, and now you impose on it a social component that it cannot charge everything immediately but will charge when it has one or when it gets a job on the basis of which it will earn and pay. I must point out that I also have one suspicion of the objectivity of Hera's work, which appeared in the request for a correction of the electricity prices by HEP. Now, this one of mine is strictly based on newspaper inscriptions if I'm wrong, I'm sorry at first, but the media reported that the board meeting was July 31st. That the President of the Governing Council has been on vacation since 1 August and has therefore not been included on the agenda of the Governing Council that point, that request by HEP. In this way we practically pushed the competition, we pushed the end-users to a competition that had already had lower prices. And on the other hand, HEP, which is a state-owned company, we're putting into a really insinuating situation. I do not want to defend HEP at all because it is obvious that they are not prepared at all for this situation. Also reportedly, according to the media, Mr. Jurekovic said the request is technically inconclusive. And now I'm wondering how it's possible that the request is technically inconclusive and at the same time the other two bidders, if I'm not mistaken, immediately responded to the media that if HEP lowers its electricity price, they'll also lower their own. So how is it technically that part of them is enforceable and this one is inconclusive? I don't think there's anything obvious about it, it's not, or the media hasn't made it clear enough, or there's something left hanging in the air, so some accounts are obviously different. There were also mentions of renewable energy sources and I would not agree with the conclusion that the Republic of Croatia lies on free energy. Lying on one, she's got a small part in her hand. But we can't say that it lies on free energy, and it's a terrible association to what I was when I was a high school kid, so they taught us that we're a country that has everything but concerns, and we're, I don't know, by God of the day the country where we can, there's everything in abundance, but there's only worries that we're surrounded. The problem that the President of the Governing Council noted in the opening statement with wind power plants is that, that they are dependent on when there is wind when there is no wind. So the 2011 indicators themselves say, in 2012, "I'm sorry," they say we had the same problem with hydroelectric power plants. So all of these sources are practically dependent on what it's like here in this case of hydrological opportunity. So we can't talk about that that's why they're not something to count on. After all, there's this obligation, how you formulate it 3 times 20 where we're going to have to do something about these wind power plants. I don't know how credible a statement from one of the experts who was in the media the other day is that we practically wind power plants can get the country out of the crisis. I believe it's for daily political purposes and a little bit for my own promotion. But in doing so, he pointed out that not in the sense that we're letting performers be foreigners but to reorient a part of our own industry for that. And one of the examples I'm going to give you is that this could be so the case of Poland where I think the set up was four shipyards if I'm not mistaken, one of those major shipyards is completely reorientated to building wind power plants and it's supposed to be one of the most successful companies in Europe that almost all of its production exports right to the European market. Given that we have or better to say we had these problems, it seems that we solved them the way the operation was done, the patient died, that there is still the possibility that in some ways Croatia might be involved in this. And why am I saying that part? You taxed here what the agency was doing, what it was all giving opinions on, but I didn't see if, anywhere, I didn't come across whether it was the agency, and I believe it's its basic right to be the initiator of the strategy for these renewable energy sources. I think it's within the scope of this agency's work, and I believe there's your interest in that, too. And I have to do it one more time, since I'm done with time, in Sisak-Moslavina County there are not three cities or two cities and one municipality has changed...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55180	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55181	Let me just finish my sentence. Moslavina's gas changed the owner as soon as possible. I think he can have it, he's bound to reflect on the citizens. I didn't see Hera react to that at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55182	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55183	Comrade Novak, you mentioned that I wanted the HERA report before Christmas for 2012, so before Christmas 2013. Okay, it's not Christmas, but here's St. Kata says snow on the door, so it's actually this report that somehow I won't tell the appropriate weather and heating seasons where our citizens are, and I'm convinced that it will be in the next report for 2013 and in 2014 there will be a large number of those, so further declines in energy consumption and further declines in electricity consumption and all other energy sources, given that the number of those who are heating up on wood, which have moved on to wood in this heating season is far greater than in 2012, which speaks of the standard of Croatian citizens and the possibilities of financial that they have, which are getting smaller. And that's what statistics say that 31% of the population is poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55184	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55185	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you are right to say this when you say that more and more citizens are moving to a tree as a warm-up, but now we will only have a chance to see how the market works. We do not need global and European examples to know that all of our wood-popping companies know very well how the market works and that the price of heating wood is growing and more with respect to the fact that it is still the cheapest because it requires and some work, so it is not just, you do not have that luxury as with other types of heating, but that kind of heating is, unfortunately, further and less and less real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55186	Second replica, esteemed Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55187	Unfortunately, the harsh reality is because the heating prices are lower than the energy produced. But what's important is to say, wouldn't it be nice if in the years that Croatia had achieved economic growth, especially in those years from 2003 to 2007, it went into a gradual adjustment to the situation which was definitely known to happen, which is market liberalisation. Wouldn't it be nice if it happened then? And that's why I said that the first and other energy law packages were flawed. Only the third energy package that has been adopted here has fully brought us into line with the European acquis. That's why the first and second energy packages were missing. And now you see, it happens that one decision withdraws the decision, so the government's decision withdraws the decision to limit the price of natural gas, and it has caused a blow to the market, but it would be nice if it were gradually done to protect Croatian citizens in years while Croatia has achieved economic growth, if there were a little more responsibility. That's what this is about. So here we are talking about the European Union coming, and in moments before the European Union's arrival, it has been pushing its head into the sand for years. That'll get us around. They will not bypass us, and therefore the main responsibility of those who managed in those years when growth was achieved in Croatia is that they did not prepare citizens and entrepreneurs for the impact that will happen, with full liberalisation of the market. Here we go again, so it wouldn't be nice if they'd done it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55188	The replica matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, in any case, I don't know if it would be nice, but it would be useful and well, and I absolutely agree with that, and that HEP is timelyly prepared for the future, which he has welcomed in my humble opinion, I am not an expert in that branch, but I don't think they are well prepared for it, and in that part I absolutely agree with you. But you need to be honest, so say the world hasn't stopped now. Time goes on, you have to live on. But I'm afraid that all these decisions, not all of them, but the vast majority of the decisions that we've made here, or the government, have made, and we're just here to fake what counterpart Vuksic would say is a fig leaf that most of these decisions don't even experience a future, they're not preparing us at all. So history repeats itself. He's not preparing us for what's coming next. Or if it prepares us, it's very narrow interests. I don't even, I don't know, but the privatisation of any state-owned company that is in the public interest has no other name for me than the corruption of the political elite, because you have no reason to do so unless there is one. Everything else is deception, market opening, market economy. They're stories for little kids! If you're going to sell state property, or a state-owned company that's in the public interest, then it's nothing but corruption of the political elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55190	Next replica, esteemed Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55191	In your speech, you have expressed concern for the pensioners, for socially endangered families, that they will bear the cost of these economic prices. But you forgot or maybe we all forgot that and when it comes to HERA today as an independent agency that approves of a certain accumulation of heating that was a time period when they couldn't do it, when the government directly approved by its decisions an increase in heat. And that we were right at the moments when speakers and you were saying, when the crisis came, that the government was by its decision, or by not making a decision to increase the price of heating for heat companies now in this position and these companies and those employees that we should be you and me and many of us in Croatia are concerned because only in 2011 the powers were translated, the powers transferred to the city councils of cities to make a decision that they could increase those prices of hot chestnuts to us in cities, and remained debts in many companies, as well as in the city's company in Vukovar 3.4 million and are now threatened by these companies and employees and workers. And the bigger problem is that they have all the time approved the increase in gas paid by those who privately use gas, but in the apartments of those companies that deal, they did not give that price increase. You today in a certain way we can calculate when someone can switch privately to heating whether they will buy an oven, wood, or anything else. What about those people? who are left to the market and who live in apartments and those companies that are now in dubiosis. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] I think we should be worried about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55192	Thank you. And this replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55193	Thank you very much. Is a colleague you're absolutely right and I agree with this, but the fact is that this government, too, if I'm not mistaken, came into effect on 1 May last year, this collection, which was out of the question. No solution is suggested that with this group of people mentioned in this section, someone in that section, I don't know the pensioners, so unemployed, so those who are employed but who don't make the income, even those you mentioned who are really not willing to do what you do. Speaking of which, you remembered me and a case of heat that were let's say local character. I think the most famous in Croatia is the case of Karlovac, who is a retailer of an entire city, well it's probably not the whole city covered, but most of the city is covered by where practically the self-will of a company or even dare say several individuals have reflected on the situation throughout the city. But that is, I mentioned, if you remember, I mentioned that Minister Opačić came up with some proposal that is not defined, is not formed into any legal solution or any concrete measure. But that's the problem, that's why we have a government to deal with these things. I agree with the spilled milk, we won't cry. It's spilled, we can't get it together. But now what? We live on, we have to do something. Well, we can't say okay now. You're in this situation right now because it was, because those before us were irresponsible, and that's the end of the story. But you should live on. These people need to be able to bridge to the supposed exit from the crisis, and when it's only the sky knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55194	Now the replica will be presented by the respected Djuro Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, in the presentation you opened that dilemma that actually happened on demand and on those loops when HEP was actually forced to run the power reduction process. Neither HEP nor the ministry having jurisdiction at HEP knew that, under the new law and methodology, the request of HERA was no longer submitted to HEP d.d. but HEP d.d. except that it supplies tariff customers via HEP ODS under regulated conditions and company HEP Supply d.o.o. which, like other similar companies, works on market principles, did not even need HERA's consent. So we see what level of incompetence, non-disclosure and acting was exactly in that process when something good started to happen on the market and how those who manage national energy systems did not know what procedures and procedures should be carried out. I agree equally with you when you realized that it is not really clear to you and that you do not agree with the fact that Croatia lies on free energy sources. Probably since the SDP no longer agrees with the existing energy strategy that we will soon get a new energy strategy based on free electricity sources and all other types of energy, so I guess we will be the only country in the world that has been able to invent such a perpetum of mobile. Therefore, how free this energy is is also seen from the fact that they had to increase the tariff for renewable sources in order to make up for the losses that CROTE has on account of precisely this free energy supplied to customers and based on renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55196	Let's listen to your colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55197	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned this case as of July 31st, and on July 31st, it was the meeting of the Board of Directors, based on HEP's request. But that's exactly the proof of what I was saying that HEP has welcomed this time completely unprepared. You have now listed some other subjects who were unprepared in that story but is the essence of all who pay for it? They pay the end-users, they pay the citizens. On the other hand, due to the likely higher user transition among other suppliers, all HEP employees may also pay the result. And in the end again, it will eventually reflect again on the state budget as well as the charge and the discharge. As far as the new strategy is concerned, I also asked the President of the Governing Council to engage, of course the Ministry, that they were obviously all but all agreed that a new strategy should be taken, that it was done on certain elements which are clearly no longer the same, or unsustainable. A colleague Bernardić also mentioned the example of Germany and how much renewable energy is available in Germany, how much is it used. If possible there, I don't say what kind of model to use but something needs to be found. Time's up, nothing's going on. We are not certainly a country that is energy independent. We don't create ourselves here for the future today and we have to pay someone else in the future. I think it's high time all those who are responsible for it, who are active in that part to join forces and do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55198	The last line will be presented by the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55199	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the debate that was partly about free energy and the debate about how we define it that we have it, that we don't have it. Well, of course there's no free energy. So if you have hydro potentials, you have both suns and wind potentials as part of a renewable energy source, you have to invest something to take advantage of it. But what's important is to say and now you mention it's energy independence. So we have potentials both water and wind and sunlight that ensure energy independence. And that is what the task and new energy strategies are and what this government has defined as its goal and what it recognizes and what it is doing with projects and preparation and development. So what is crucial is that we have a particular emphasis on the hydro potentials that are not used to provide us with energy independence tomorrow and, of course, the price of production of such a type with the hydro potentials that we have is certainly more favourable, cheaper than when you have to import resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55200	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, if I understood correctly, we actually agreed because I don't see you saying anything that's contrary to what I was saying, or I didn't understand you if I didn't, I don't know. In any case, free energy was not mentioned by me but by my colleague Bernardic, and I only mentioned that there is no such energy and that is what you have now stated in your debate. When you mention energy independence and the Croatian future as an energy independent country, it should be realistic. We're afraid very, very far from it. And we can possibly talk about being less dependent on the import part of the energy, but not on some kind of energy independence, and we're really far away from that. You mentioned hydro potentials. There are other potentials, how usable are they? Now that's really questionable. Even what we have in our palms, which gives us nothing to react to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55202	Thank you. I now invite the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic to introduce us to the position of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55203	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Management Council, colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS club will accept this report. We, on behalf of the club, won't comment, there's been a lot of debate over this opening section that talks about publishing, etc. Apparently, little wanted to be shown in a different way than usual, but it didn't work out. What's crucial is content. So, I even want to express that this report is even broader considering
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55204	A colleague of Gjurkovic's just one moment. The delegation of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Parliament of the Slovak Republic is with us at the gallery and I welcome them on behalf of Croatian MPs. . Go ahead. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55205	Thank you very much. So if this report were more extensive and more detailed, it wouldn't be bad, it would be good, by the way. HERA only gives its report to the Croatian Parliament and corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. This is a matter of informing parliamentary representatives who decide not only on the report but also on the content, and the quality of the work must be seen from the report. Thus, this report can give much better and better quality specifics about the way it works and all those cracks, guidelines, thoughts and assessments of the situation, which is crucial in the decision-making and the work of HERA and in general about the situation on the market. HERA had one problem last year, which is seen from this report and it is clear that it could not work at a given moment the way it was supposed to at the time when it was given a new task with new laws in which it was then already involved in the work of the European regulatory authorities. And what had information that this work in the composition of the European Regulatory Authorities of the Energy Agency was extremely good and we are extremely commended for HERA on the way, approach and contribution itself to work, which means that they know how to do their job. Now, how do they do it? To discuss 2012 and all the discussions so far have been related to some kind of energy strategy and discussions have been in the role of HERA in particular regarding the control and price of electricity because it is essentially the most attractive in the sense of the public and citizens because they are only interested in whether or not they will approve, and all that work is petty, professional, scientific and need is not actually seen. So I say it's very good that this report is also much, much clearer, much wider, because then you can see all of the elements of this paper. Therefore, in addition to the usual role played by the economic regulator of natural monopolies through the determination of tariffs or prices, and the quality and service supervision of HERA also has an extended obligation in the context of the insurance of development and supervision of the functioning of the liberalised market in electricity. And what he would put emphasis on in the work of HERA, which is the protection of energy operators, customers and electricity mainly in the segment of public services in energy, complemented and strengthened by a system of communication and consultation with the professional and interested public, which becomes part of the activities of the regulatory body. What is what Croatian citizens do besides what I said most interested in whether HERA will approve or not some reduction or increase in prices? It's basically consumer protection. Tomorrow we will probably also discuss the Consumer Credit Act and all and most of our laws, but also the reports will be related to the protection of consumers, on the one hand, and that on the other hand means that it is a quality service, whether it is a stable supply when we talk about energy, whether and how the prices are regulated, whether they are clear, whether they are transparent and whether they are recognised in an adequate way that the person who has to pay it knows exactly what the price is for, that it is not what is being debated here, even though there is much more debate, why the price has been raised, why the price has come down, why the price has dropped, etc. Is when the price goes down then more or less no one asks why the price and quality are released, the quality of the service. So that's the element that absolutely from HERA I can say on behalf of the HNS club we expect to give more emphasis on education because Croatian citizens must know that HERA is not only one of the regulatory agencies, that HERA is key not because it approves and lowers prices because there are certain methodologies that no one understands, but Croatian citizens must clearly know and clearly know what they have from market liberalisation and clearly need to know when on this liberalised market they are offered a range of bidders, suppliers of different energies, that they know how to recognize and read what they are offering not to get into that situation again that they have little writing so no one has read, so they went from A to B or from B to C suppliers, and tomorrow it happens to be small enough to write or be defined there. So taught by the experiences of other laws and contracts and the liberalisation of markets that existed from the beginning on the Croatian market, the role of HERA is to recognize it and to say that we are asking HERA to regulate it in a way that the final consumer, the final customer, is well-informed and not to be "leaded" by an approved price reduction that will be returned to him tomorrow, we in Dalmatia would say from the span, with some collection because he did not read well whether he knew the conditions etc. So opening up and liberalising the market is good if we see for ourselves that there have been some price reductions especially of electricity. But who's to say it's also the role of regulators to clearly convey the message that it's obvious and to know exactly when you go to one, when you go to another, to give him a commitment, and not to give that system a more favourable price, so we all go to A or B, or we stay in the one we were in, we don't know what kind of way is waiting for us on this issue, etc. And I think it was one of the segments that wasn't run, more of course it was about the energy policy of this government. But I think on behalf of the HNS Club very much pointed out that our wish is a particular emphasis on consumer protection, not only by HEP and others, but also by other operators offering energy in the gas market, heat energy etc. To make HERA the one who must warn and protect consumers so that they know clearly which direction they are going, what they sign, with whom they sign and what are the obligations and what are the consequences. Because we are at a time when it can be done that we do not need to correct certain false flows and flows when our consumers find themselves in certain problems what and how and how. As far as the social part that was being discussed about electricity markets is concerned, I think the laws are quite well prepared when we were harmonizing with the second, third package. And so I believe that there will really be no problem. So, once again, we support this report and we stress, we give one task of HERA, especially in terms of consumer protection, consumer information, because in this way and this price tomorrow that we trust less all energy and the transition to a liberalised market, which our citizens are still not sufficiently focused on in terms of energy, except for the attractiveness of one less price than the task of not having certain problems tomorrow, to have someone catch on certain contracts, to some new operator, and then to have it all more expensive tomorrow. I think the role of HERA is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55206	Thank you. The esteemed Davor Bernardic stands up on this replica display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55207	Well, here's what you mentioned about consumer protection, and that's what's important. But you can see how it's done with us. As long as we have no obligation to protect consumers nothing, and when a commitment is made then things are done and there is a certain shock. And the most important thing to say is that for years, the head was pushed into the sand. And there was liberalisation, there was naturally liberalisation that we had to accept as a member of the European Union. And as for free energy, I'll do the same, yeah, it's free raw energy, the sun, the wind, that's what's free of charge. The use of energy is not free. But why does Europe encourage investment in these free sources? Because the raw materials are free, because it stays, that's what's important. Well, of course it's clear to everyone that the use is not free. But the price per kilowatt comes down from day to day for renewable energy sources, and that's what's important, and that's why it's being encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55208	The replica matches Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55209	I agree, of course, with my colleague with you, I just want to point out on this consumer protection issue and what you said was a little late entering the ears, let alone the implementation of this consumer protection. Because, as many things, they become subject to political debates and often do not implement in the right sense of the word, these words protect consumers, i.e. protect users, and in translation it is the protection of citizens, i.e. users of all services. In the case of market liberalisation, this is about protecting consumers who use different energy sources. So my emphasis in the debate on behalf of the club was to focus on the issue and HERA because in this way only by informing and educating citizens. And that means they need to be pointed out what their rights are and on the other hand, which are risks, and that should be clearly indicated to them. And that is essentially preventive protection and showing and pointing to the consumer on his dignity and his right. And when he knows that it will be easier for all of us and for the regulatory agency of course... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55210	We still have to hear the position of the HDSSB club and the respected Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Board, Board of Directors, colleagues and colleagues. The HDSB club, when it is also Vice-President of the Parliament, will be retained in connection with this report. Why do I say that? So here's to get to the first page of the report we have 8 pages of paper before that. Each of us received this report that has 160 pages plus 8 pages that have been added and at the end of the ninth also empty page, 9 pages of paper, slightly cut woods and trees. So that only the report as a report is with all those who participated in this article by the editor-in-chief, editor, editor has 5, print, printer, group, etc., I will not advertise anyone therefore a beautifully equipped edition which can also be used for all data, tables, charts, sketches, which can also be used for further analysis in the work and HERA as well as in monitoring the Croatian energy sector over the years to come as well as in comparison with the previous years. On page 129, it says customer protection. The protection of customers from the use of heat, and therefore the complaints and submissions of customers regarding the use of heat. And there's a total of '93 in 2012. They are classified according to the areas for which these submissions, complaints, etc. So he says like this. Requests for separation from the heat system 26, so exclusion from the thermal system of the one in which they are connected. Then complaints concerning the application of the tariff system and the calculation of heat consumption 23, the quality of heat energy and service quality 9 and requests for the opinion of HERA and the interpretation of regulations 35. A total of 93 complaints, submissions, complaints, as we wish to say. One acquaintance asked me, since he does not use gas as energy because he is unnecessary, because he is occasionally in the apartment and there is no need at all to use gas for the electric stove, why he pays those 23.08 kuna monthly fees when he has never lit any gas consumption. It's probably called a availability fee or something called it, but it pays that fee on a regular basis without ever using a gas stove or anything else that drives gas. Should HERA be intervened in this case if she complains and what HERA's opinion about it would be, because that's also the same thing to say, it would be said to one colloquial dictionary a parafiscal imposition which the gas distributor imposes on its consumers. This year compared to 2012 as I said in replicas, there are more and more skyscrapers of ours, above all the pensioners who are here will be skyscrapers like '93, '94. the years in Zenica when those skyscrapers on the plains all had as the people's words roll and they all lay wood, whether they were given as social aid. In Brod-Posavina County, about 3 million kunas are spent to help those who need wood and cannot buy it. So these are the funds that come from the state for social aid, so about 3 million kuna, 2 million 800, somewhere. The rest of the wood buys or collects or collects, we can say in two ways, someone collects, and this year the relationship of those who use this old way of heating will be far greater than in 2012 as it speaks of poverty and increasing poverty of citizens. It began earlier, it started and increased the price of electricity by 23% by the government's decision, and without consultation almost with HERA when it only called it. So on 1 May 2012, electricity prices increased by 23%, which many households who are such social status as are actually still with the 25% VAT and the increase in all other prices by a tax bite and that to the blood, turned black. That's why we have this luxurious, equipped, beautiful, wonderful report, a really great HERA report on all this. It is said in this report that we are now going to do a little bit about it specifically, that there is an installed power in the Republic of Croatia electric power plants 4000 megawatts, of which from renewable sources 175, so 3.3% as it says here. It's from the wind power plants, we have something else from these solar power plants so as Bernardić said 250 megawatts versus 4000 is not even 10%, although he said that over 10% is nowhere near 10, about 7-8%. What prevents us from increasing the production of electricity from renewable sources? So first of all, the regulations that have been passed and the permits that are given I'd say on the hood, and here are the legal acts that actually prevent it a little bit. This is where the President of the Governing Council said that electricity from wind power plants does not come evenly, correctly, but comes at intervals, interruptions, etc. So I believe, I don't believe it, but I know that here it is, and only the report says that in 2012, it was a dry year and that we had a hydropower plant to say "substantiation in production" and therefore increased imports of electricity, i.e. production from domestic sources was 52%, the rest was imports. Therefore, neither hydropower supply nor constant and at the same level of electricity as it is not from wind power plants and yet in America, the United States to say so in a Colloquial way, and in the European Union, the production of electricity from renewable sources weighs on the 20-20-20 principle, but still when the production of renewable energy and other energy sources is compared, it is really hard to reach in 2012. For Croatia, especially since they have fallen despite the purchase of electricity prices for investment. And if so, as it says here somewhat ironically on one page, it says: "According to the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 1 May 2012, the average electricity price for tariff customers within the universal service has been increased by 23% and is 47 and a half lip per kilowatt hour. This price is encouraging to change electricity suppliers." Therefore, it is encouraging to change the electricity supplier or is encouraging to the household. Either it is encouraging for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or we support this policy with as many suppliers, distributors, etc. So what exactly is our goal? To make life worse for the citizens? To raise their price of electricity, gas, and oil to keep us from talking. Gas produced in the Republic of Croatia is cheaper for kuna than gas says from imports. So when in our Slavonia, in fact, we draw oil better in the Djeletovites and in the Molva and around Molva gas. Oil is said to have about 40% from domestic sources, from domestic sources. But we don't see any domestic oil at gas stations that should be cheaper in terms of proximity and source than imports. Because she's mixed up. It's the same price. Where's the difference? It's not in Croatia. Bye, bye, and Budapest, etc. Who cares about that? Who cares about that, therefore, the prices of energy obtained from the domestic source will also be cheaper for the final consumer than imports. What does HERA say about that? If we produce 55% of the gas from domestic sources and about 40% of the oil from domestic sources, isn't that oil and that gas should be cheaper than that imported gas? Maybe someone would like an import gas, so let's heat up on the import gas, but it's all even at the same price in this country. Who's making money here? Or as someone here said, the crime of political elites, that corruption, pardoned the corruption of the political elite in the sale and sale of INA, led to all this. INA as a producer and distributor and oil and gas, which has since 2000 been given into 25% plus one share in order to say one former parliamentary representative, it is 26% and later still remains and now MOL as a state-owned company Hungarian rather than private. Where are our Syrian sites? What about what INA had, worth 70 million euros? Where'd they go? Who's talking about it? Who ruined it. Well HERA is not involved in Syria, but is engaged in supplying, that is, market regulation, energy supply in the Republic of Croatia. They'll come out one day, see who's responsible and who's ruining it for whose interests and whose pockets are mostly private. So one protracted policy towards INA of all the ruling set since 2000, so all the ruling furniture has also led to disturbances in both prices and in everything and the market in the Croatian market. Biofuels. I'd like to mention here that it says here that, so in this year, growth is said to be 3 and a half million tons, excuse me. It says the state of the oil and oil products and biofuels sector has marked... the change as well as the conditions of the economic crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total production of petroleum products after three years of continuous decline recorded a limited growth of about 6%, and the total production of oil derivatives was 3 and a half million tonnes for the Republic of Croatia, 3 and a half million tonnes of which from biofuels, the production of biofuels in 2012 was 39740 tonnes or 40000 tonnes. That's a little over 1%. How many campaigns and how much we have spent here in this House discussing biofuels, usability, that Slavonia and all the rest of us will shine our tails with oil, so we will get to the level Europe has on the production of biofuels of about 10%, etc. share in total. Now it says relative growth now accounts for 40,000 tonnes of 3 and a half million tonnes. That's a little over 1%. When are we going to reach those 20 20 20 2020 five times 20? Teko. HERA here in this, to say the perfect clock she showed statisticalally through charts and charts and everything that was attached here, everything that was moving, and even giving some instructions a little bit of a head start, I'd say, Well, it's not already. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] That's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55212	Thank you. We'll hear the replicas now. First honoured Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55213	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, you mentioned wood heating in your discussion. It may not be too much of a connection, but it does, in fact, have to do with this HERA report because it's a direct consequence of the collection of all energy, including electricity. But I want to use this replica to say something about a problem that has come up among those who are dealing with precisely production, i.e. the final products of wood. A man from Chabra wrote to me. Firmest Cord has problems because Croatian forests do not want to deliver sufficient quantities of halves, i.e. Not that they increased it or left it with him compared to last year but they cut it by 50%. So he was forced into the Chabra, which is surrounded by forests to import halves from Međimurje. I will not say how this affects the financial situation of that company that employs 50% of the working population in that area, which is now in danger that a small sawmill instead of the 5 grand she had a year ago would have won 50,000 cubes of that area. What strategy or what are we even talking about in this country when we at least talk about this segment of the Croatian industry? Instead of showing one normal activity and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests according to one such entity, they all make it impossible for him to work so that he himself says that he may be forced to think about firing these 350, 250 workers and to deal with the simplest jobs. And there's no wood anywhere, no raw materials at all. Here, I come from the island, today it's 5.11. people don't have wood. Why don't they? Because there's no raw material, there's not enough of those who can get it and they're dealing with the delivery of it. And why do people move on wood? Because it's the cheapest. 2000 liters of oil is 15 thousand kuna, and 12 metres of wood comes to you with about 5,000 kuna. It's all very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55214	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55215	Yes, my colleague Boric, I have heard a lot of complaints from economic operators, directors and owners of companies dealing with production and therefore wood as raw materials that have problems with Croatian forests much more than before. So it turns out somehow that someone grabbed this director of the Croatian forests as if it were his father's, and he's not smoking is what the people would say. I'm sorry about the men from Spin Wallis, Vinkovac and all sorts of other heres in Slavonski Brod we have the wood industry, too, thank God. Some of the remains of the remains... The wood industry of the former Slavonski Brod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That they have big problems in the supply of raw materials. And he boasts, or we boast on television yesterday or the day before yesterday in "Good Morning Croatia" as we have 50% of the state, 50% of the Republic of Croatia under the woods. So are we going to watch her or what? Although it restores the harvest to plant new forests or wood producers, especially those that need wood for the final product struggle with the purchase of wood from the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55216	The second line is a respected Djuro Popiach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke of renewable sources, and now you've offered me and tied me up in this debate about the forest, so probably everything that's not in the industry goes and burns elsewhere and in some other parts of Austria, Slovenia or Hungary's other cogeneration plants because it doesn't work out here. But something else I wanted to say, I don't care about building capacity for renewable sources. As long as the price is free, renewable energy is reportedly three to four times higher than the contingent will be interested investors and that will not be a problem. However, the question is what will be financed from. So we now have 3% energy or 3%, 4% renewables, and we don't have any money in CROTE. And it must naturally increase the total electricity prices in order to subsidise those 3% to the rules that follow. How much will it cost when we reach a thousand or I don't know how many megawatts we have to have. And another thing that is said here, it explicitly states that the condition of maintaining the security of electricity supply is to build new production units, and it should be warned that unless it is accompanied by the construction of classical power plants, only building renewable energy sources will in itself not solve the problem of system security. This is a much bigger problem of Croatian energy security than I repeat under quotes "free sources" and the construction of renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55218	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55219	A fellow drinker is free of charge, so neither the sun nor that blowing wind. Basically it exists for thousands or millions of years and the sun and the wind. However, the application of the sun and wind and energy production from this are certainly a relatively expensive process, and then we have these prices from such renewable energy sources. But when we look at all mankind, then we have to understand and accept and glassy how the amount of greenhouse gases develops, etc. that regardless of the price, this way of obtaining total energy is much more favourable to the survival of humanity than it is to it. The Americans have explored how much of the percentages are taking up precisely this production of renewable energy and energy from the source of fossil fuels, so let me put it that way. And when they summed up all the renewable sources in the world and the total consumption of fossil fuels, it turned out to be at the world level of 1%. Only 1%, so 99% of the energy is derived from fossil fuels. So far, the condition is the way it's gonna be later, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55220	The last replica will be her colleagues, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55221	My dear colleague, you said two words in your debate, absurd situations. The fact is that we here in the Republic of Croatia have really many absurd situations and from this report we have not seen these concrete examples of such absurd situations but we have very much out of life. There were often stories of both MOL and INA, and considering their modernisation of these plants and what was there. The example from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County INA and MOL are moving towards modernisation, a few kilometers from INA and TE is located the Pula-Karlovac bus pipeline where our Croatian gas draws. HEP doesn't join the INA project, it doesn't work to modernise the TE that pollutes the entire Kvarner pool, the measurements have shown it, and only now it's going to go into some kind of application to modernise TE, so I guess we'll make it now to the gas because the strategy was on the mule. And that's the kind of situation we have as much as you want. Another situation someone mentioned here, and you touched it, and our economy is in a situation where we have industrial electricity, we have industrial water, we have industrial gas, even the Church pays industrial electricity for its facility, how can we help the economy? For example, from the river Vodavod and the sewerage of Rijeka in losses and their income was reduced for a simple reason because the INAs did not want to lower the price of water, so INA made its own water line to the HEP accumulation lake, separated from the VIK system and the VIK is now at a loss and there is no possibility of further expansion. I'm saying this for a reason because all of this debate when we talk about some kind of strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia and that of the Strategic Investment Act from all of this, it's obvious that we don't have the strategy of what we want and what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55222	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55223	So just as he visited Franjo Josip Zagreb, he said that Croatians are great people just don't know what they want. So it looks like we here in our country have a feudal system that looks a little bit like a feudal system where every local community so there's INA Rivera set up its own water line and doesn't want to participate in the Rijeka Waterway. In the Gorski Kotar, you have examples of this pipeline. The price of gas from city to city from municipality to municipality is different, it's amazing and we have HERA. I don't know if she can regulate it or not but here's Brod-Posavina County we have two gas distributors and they're not the same prices. Well then, the one in Andrijavs is lower than the one in the Slavonski Brod, in Gradišca, perhaps even lower, so the amazing thing is that this imbalance is the price of gas throughout the country. It's just that everyone has their own little feed, and then that's how he deals with the distributor, decides on the price, etc. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55224	We will now hear the final word of the President of the Governing Council of Hera, respected Tomislav Jurekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I won't hold you long now, this has been a long and exhausting debate. I will try through a few comments or a few conclusions to answer some of these questions especially to some who have been a little paradigmtic and actually point to a few open dilemmas that HERA does, which does not, which can, which it cannot, as far as its strength and how far it can reach. Before we lose Mr Grubisic, maybe just briefly. Regulation as implemented in energy throughout Europe aims, I will again, as a humble engineer, make an analogy to something I know, cause a certain effect and by means of certain means cause a certain effect, wait for a feedback and see if you have a goal. In the gas distribution regulation does not mean equating, regulation would mean that the cost of each of these gas distributors you mentioned corresponds to the amount of its investment. The difference is when that cost really reflects the price in that segment of regulated activity that we have access to, which I repeat is only pipes, these are transports, these are distributions and part of the public service that is being controlled for the time being. Let us bear in mind that this is still a process that will not last long. By decision on the energy market, we have decided that all production and sales include all domestic sales, whether now or in due course they end up on the market. This means that with perhaps some mechanisms that will amortise very rapid changes from the market but have a market situation, supply and demand of energy and gas and electricity will be yours to manifest in sales. The regulator will remain permanently to ensure that this natural monopoly of transporting gas to the transmission of electricity and distribution of one and another energy does not take place at prices that do not meet the actual costs, but since we have history behind us, we only got the possibility and the right to determine the final price of those parts that we regulate. So the final price of distribution, the final price of transportation, not always and not everywhere, but only in household parts and the final price of domestic sales, and only a shorter time. I want to say, it is fate that 37 gas distributors in Croatia will probably always have a different price to some extent because this will reflect the different cost of their investment. Some have made 150km of nets, and through that food of 5 million cc's, some have reverse relationships. So the regulator's there with his hands tied. We won't be able to get close to the costs, we can just try to make them the way they're supposed to be, so don't stop them like it wasn't rare in some other sectors, I think the example of this top-up is remarkable. Therefore, regulators should be expected to really reflect the actual costs in those elements they cover, which are regulated activities. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Novak had three questions that were conveniently included in the debate about what the regulator was doing and what not. Since the answers to these questions will probably not be in the 2013 Annual Report, which we will seek to equip more adequately. But anyway, your question about summer last year. So these days, electricity suppliers are complaining to HERA that it favoured the position of HEP on the basis of the universal service methodology adopted in the 9th month. And because HEP in this and such framework could also find places to lower electricity for households which, of course, does not correspond to the competition that it had previously reduced. Two months before that, new suppliers were silent and HEP was not satisfied because it was not based on his then misrepresented request that could satisfy him, could lower the price of gas. So the market will never be satisfied with the regulator. ... It'll either be one or the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Customers will be overpriced, the prices will be too slow or too low, the regulator is there to put up with it, it's part of his job. Unfortunately, in the third month of 2013, the Electricity Act was amended. European principles of separation, production and sales have been introduced and have ceased to be regulated activities. In this very fact, production for tariff customers, and it was requested to be put down in summer, no longer exists in Croatia, because there is no such thing as regret, and you will agree that if anything then has to comply with the laws of this country in the letter, it could not satisfy such a request but had to wait for the 9th month when the methodology was adjusted and when such a model replaced something else. It's actually a secret this summer. As for the change and co-creation in the energy strategy, I repeat, the regulator must not act in a way that enters the scope of political action. I think this House has given enough and through enough votes both incentives for changes and corrections to the strategy that they will certainly begin to take place in the resolution ministry as well as any other acts that are being adopted. And HERA will participate in such a procedure. She's making some very explicit recommendations and certain observations now, and she's going to continue. In the third detail when I was mentioned that this year, too, unfortunately, there are a few more energy subjects who have financial problems due to their liquidity and problems have at some point a question of survival, survival on the energy market due to the survival of their license, or the permit to carry out their activities. We've only had one case so far where such a license really had to be taken away, but HERA is very closely monitored because it's about companies and here it's about gas distributors dealing with a public service that has to have continuity. And if they get into trouble they often drag a few other houses that also do public service. So, if one gas distributor is unable to Alimentate its obligations on time, he's doing problems to a gas transporter who can't stop him just as public service. So there's all the chain-linked companies we're trying to track. However, ownership of these companies is not an element affected by the regulator. So Moslavina Gas, unfortunately, was in one of the circles of companies that we visited and saw and came to us quite often. However, changes in ownership structures are not an element that HERA can only notice but which it should and may object to. What matters is whether and how obligations are met and to what extent such a distributor, or such a supplier, is in a position to work. Therefore, any assistance will continue to be made by HERA in this regard but also on the ownership structure of the regulator nowhere in Europe can and should not be affected. In the end, I think the comment sent to HERA is really grateful for every comment I've heard here, both negative and positive, because it can only help me. A comment that the protection of the customer through its information is the point at which HERA needs to work more. I can only announce one positive line so much, I think by the end of this month or at the latest the next one on HERA's page will be the first tariff calculator. So, the first so-called. the story cooperation tool which is normally a mandatory or often used asset when markets open and when there are multiple providers of one service. So, one information aid that will allow who offers what and that by inserting their own data to start the test phase just on electricity compare who might do what to you. It is a step in the direction of what is said here and that is therefore to help inform customers to get through that information benefit from the open market. I hope, therefore, that in 2013 there will be another shift for the better and through the annual report. And I thank you again for all the suggestions. HERA is open to every visit, for every question and for me personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55226	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55227	Thank you very much. Well, the Honorable President of the Board of Directors, I just wanted to ask how much damage it was about exactly what you were talking about because I couldn't read it. You're talking about methodology, there was one methodology when we raised the electricity price, and then it went on and then something changed, and then it was possible to cut that high, otherwise high electricity price by about 7.8%, and now we have a little cheaper electricity. And from the daily press, it was read that it was because you were then president of the board of directors for a month. So now, it needs to be cleared up in front of the Croatian public. Because if it is only a matter of methodology, which is why it was not for the benefit of Croatian citizens immediately because HEP made a request in the 7th month, but we had to wait 1. 10th to have cheaper energy. What about those two months? Especially the 8th month which is the most active tourist resort where it was spent. Even now in the summer, we may be wasting more energy than in the winter, since we have to cool down. So I ask the question how much, by your assessment, was taken out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, means money that maybe shouldn't have been taken and there was... HEP's reaction in time that in time it reacted and did what could have been done and regardless of the competition that occurred in the meantime? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's to answer that question, how much do you think it is in millions of kunas?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55228	You have two minutes to respond to this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55229	For the sake of interest, if it is still of interest to the Croatian public. The 3 month electricity market law abolished electricity production for tariff customers. A request that could have been filed in other ways, perhaps not. I can't speculate about it as a regulator. The requirement we received was a requirement to lower electricity prices, to produce electricity for tariff customers. At that moment, such a category in this country no longer existed legally. She'll be compensated after she's been analyzed, prepared and brought in a universal service. It is another category as it is valorised and as it determines the price of energy for household customers that gradually, and here it will be over a two-year period, introduces 25, then 50, then 75% of the share of market energy. So it stops being an administrative determination and becomes something else. During this unfortunate two-month period, I can't really tell you about which difference could hypothetically be done if HEP had then reduced the price, but it simply couldn't be implemented legally at that time. There had to be a fundamental assumption that such a similar request could be made, and this required a change of methodology. So the law changed, it abolished the category for which correction was sought. I was most sorry about all that. If it were an accidental request for an increase, I also couldn't fulfill it because the law couldn't do it and then he'd be a hero to the nation, this is how I turned out on vacation. So I'm really sorry, but I guess in those two months it took space from one model to another model that it wouldn't be repeated again, but unfortunately it was a necessary circumstance. At this point, some others are once again dissatisfied with HERA. It's so fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55230	The second line is respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55231	Yes, my colleague, Boric, my replica is about to continue on this one of yours. In fact, the increase in electricity on 1 May 2012 of 23%, later the decrease in 7-8%, therefore there are 23% in this increase and allegedly some 800 million kunas produced by this increase, and it has been in HEP, there is room for a reduction of 7-8%, which is actually a crumb compared to an increase of 23%. But what I particularly wanted to say is that you also pointed out what I said, that there is good advice in this report, and that one of them is also one of them, and that you have not emphasized who this task is, but I only know that some expensive energy and investment centre was founded, or that somehow there is no sign or voice today, and we know how it was founded and on whose initiative. And when it comes to gas, then in any case, neither distributor nor gas carrier will work with a loss. You said to calculate their costs and everything else and then on that basis regulate, you set the price. However, the question remains, there is no idea how very different prices are, say, in the Municipality of Garcin, in the Municipality of Andrijevci which is 10 km from Slavonski Brod where the different price is. How do you explain that if it's on the domestic market and the material and everything else is around here somewhere doing the work? No distributor will work with a loss, so he stays on HERA to determine how much his profit is, what else. I don't know a different explanation. And if that's how it testifies to the fact that gas distributors are growing more and more, they're nothing like mushrooms after the rain, as well as bakers. You have a bakery and a bakery everywhere because it's obviously a profitable job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55232	Would you like to respond to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55233	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55234	Please turn on the microphone. Comrade Jurekovic, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55235	So distributors are those who deal with the network, there are 37 of them in Croatia. If there are any new ones, they are most likely wholesalers, traders or new gas suppliers. The number of suppliers on the Croatian market will continue to be seen for how long the cognac or expansion of the number of suppliers will take place. This in any case goes in favour of customers because their mutual competition can lead to effect. Unfortunately, if someone builds 200 km of nets to sell 10 million cubic meters, and the other builds half less to sell five times as much, their specific cost that will reflect on the distribution price through such a system will be fat in favour of the other. These marketable natural circumstances may also be manifested in the price of market components, in the price of distribution, at the time of investment. What is important and capitalal is that these infrastructure facilities would be maintained, so that they could function, which is the assumption that anyone would have supplies, that anyone could exorcise the market then those infrastructure segments must have such prices, or such a tariff that it allows them to survive, to function, to be restored and to be reasonably further built. So the key is to keep the infrastructure in its proper state, not to underestimate it and that is the basic task of regulators in that component. That's why the price difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55236	I thank the President of the Governing Council, Tomislav Jurekovic. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-30-0.u55237	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2012 and the report on the achievement of the HERA budget for 2012. The debate on the reports is closed. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2012 report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the 2012 Hera Budget is being taken into account" Please make your statement on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 84 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 17 abstentions have adopted the proposed conclusion.
