ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39071	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work at the session. Today we will work without a break because we have a lot of reports so that we will not work deep into the night without a break, and we will discuss - The proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you have received the proposal for an act in boxes. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Does he? Yeah. Minister of Tourism, Darko Lorencin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39072	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and fellow Members of Parliament. Here we have today a strategic document, a strategy for tourism development by 2020 which essentially defines the tourism future of our country, the future of a sector that is far the most competitive and lively compared to all other sectors of the economy, and in this document we want to predict a single indication that will point to its stronger development and that will involve all the ends of our country in this activity. Also, this document is the basis for withdrawing funds from EU funds and also represents a re-route not only for those who directly participate in the creation of a tourist offer but also for tourism as one horizontal sector involving a whole series of other sectors, including the organisation of the entire territory of the part of the country in this case and the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. So there is also one indication in essence for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because we are all in some way related to tourism. The aim of this document is to encourage investors in their ideas and plans for tourism, and the plan is to invest around 7 billion euros in tourism by 2020, to increase its total receipts by about 6 billion euros, and to create 30,000 new jobs. In addition, there is a clear desire to develop this sector while preserving the most valuable thing we have and that is space. Tourism to the Republic of Croatia is also needed because of investment and stronger economic growth, because of employment, job creation, but also because of the overall contribution to the wider social community. In this way, we want to position tourism in the upcoming EU accession where we want to position the Republic of Croatia as a country of strong tourist identity as a friendly and honest host with a focus on quality, offer attractive products and experiences based on authenticity and emotions and persist in sustainable development by focusing on innovation. In doing so, we want to create one country identity, one identity of tourism, and on these specialities we can manage to place and develop a Croatian tourist product that should be recognizable. What does the tourism of the Republic of Croatia do? Tourism of the Republic of Croatia currently consists of 852 beds of which 13 became hotel accommodation, 25% are in camps, 13% in various forms of collective accommodation and 49% are in households, which is at the same time one fact that we have a vast area and huge space for action with the aim of improving and improving the quality of tourism. All 40% of the accommodation facilities are located in, marked with quality tags with 4 and 5 stars, and the dominant tourist product is sea and sun. This dominant product will as such and remain, but we need to unite this product in such a way that we can replace it, fertilize it and make it always more of a reason to come to our country. The demand is above 60 million overnights, almost 12 million arrivals, and what I said earlier every third night is realised in private accommodation. In particular, if we look at tourism as a sector, it employs 95500 people, so a total of 7% of all employees in the Republic of Croatia make up 7.3 billion euros in tourism consumption of which 6.3 pages and 1 billion domestic ones. The basic, one of the basic features of our tourist product is its seasonality, so 87% of all nights are made in June-September. So it also comes out and if we look at all those spaces in one place, all those opportunities that are opening up to us then we should certainly be focused on these facts that tell us that if we look at the competitive status of our tourism there is insufficient differentiation of products and services, a lack of innovative and quality content for our tourists. Growth is based on the expansion of private accommodation, which is not a priority bad, but based development on expansion growth, very often leads to the fact that we cannot talk about one programmed, monitored and continuous growth. There is also insufficient investment activity and too little new hotel facilities, there is classical national tourism marketing and inherited orientation towards seasonal business. This means that most tourist employees and those involved in the tourist offer simply function on the four mentioned months. However, with such competitive shortcomings, Croatian tourism has achieved results better than Mediterranean competition in times of crisis, and that is what gives us special motivation and that is what is well known and given all these shortcomings that we have. It is now up to us to draw our own plans through such a strategic document, plans for activities to go towards a specific goal defined by the vision of the development of Croatian tourism. And it reads: Croatia is a globally recognizable tourist destination by 2020, competitive and attractive for investment that creates jobs and manages sustainable development in its entire space. It cultivates a culture of quality, and offers its guests hospitality, security and unique variety of authentic content and experience throughout the year. So one of the main development goals of development is to position the Republic of Croatia by 2020 among the first 20 leading tourist most competitive countries in the world. To achieve this goal means to manage and manage, develop and implement the 4 strategic objectives defined by this strategy. First and foremost achieve 7 billion euros in investment. Secondly, improve the structure and quality of accommodation, which means building new 20,000 rooms in hotels and growing their share from 13.1 to 18.1%, building new facilities in campsites and increasing the quality of family accommodation. Third, open about 30,000 new jobs and 20 thousand directly in tourism, and 10 thousand in follow-up activities. Finally, increase tourism consumption by achieving 14.3 billion total annual tourism consumption. This document, therefore, is also precise when it comes to the definition of key areas in which it is necessary to act. They are called operational strategies and should be an emphasis on our country's tourism policy by 2020. It is defined as 5 basic areas, it is marketing, it is the development of a tourist offer that represents the largest part of the investment, the development of human potentials as the fourth and fifth areas of process management, which includes the realization of this strategy. In particular, when we talk about marketing, what is ahead of us and about which we have already taken in the operational sense and pre-production is the new organisational structure of the Croatian Tourist Board's General Office and the reorganisation of systems to tourist communities that should go towards destination management of organizations. Then, professional procedure of tourist branding. Since we have distributed the Republic of Croatia into 8 destinations of which 5 are located at sea and 3 in the interior and the entire system and marketing and investment in this activity will essentially depend and will be focused on how to take care of these destinations. Then comes the professionalisation of public relations in tourism, the transition to online communication towards markets and the permanent education of staff at all levels. When we talk about human education here, that's where we only think about marketing. When we talk about the development of the tourist offer, there are 10 key tourist products that will enlarge our main tourist product and that will significantly affect the mitigation of seasonality, i.e. the increase in tourism consumption, but also the development of tourism consumption both in the pre- and post-season periods. I come from our main product, it is the sun and the sea, where it is envisaged to reposition through strengthening all the link value chains and the length of the season. The second point is nautical tourism where 15 thousand new bonds are predicted, 10 thousand of which are in the sea, and 5 thousand in the dry. Health tourism represents one huge niche, one market specialization where networking should also be carried out with a view to raising and quality of accommodation. Cultural tourism and further touristisation of cultural content, interpretation centres, manifestations are one of the main products with which we are about to act in pre-seasonal and post-seasonal periods. Business tourism foresees the launch and establishment of infrastructure with the aim of launching major congress centres where we anticipate two key large congress centres, and where the harmonisation of air lines and general management of this work are also foreseen. 6. is golf tourism, which implies the infrastructure of the playground with the strengthening and forming of golf resorts in key tourist centres. Then cyclotourism is inevitable and gastro tourism, then rural and mountain tourism and 10th adventure and sports tourism. We have three other areas that significantly define our product and which have a significant impact on its further development, it is certainly a set of activities related to privatisation and activation of state property, in the process of privatising companies where the Republic of Croatia has a stake of more than 51%, but also the activation of inactive military assets, then industrial property, we have several cases where along the Adriatic coast we have so-called. brandfield locations of former industrial plants. The following is an important area for improving the accommodation offer where new facilities are predicted mostly in hotels and resorts with 4, 5 stars, then small hotels, increasing the quality of family accommodation where there is no future growth, but we have a huge area where we should work to improve the quality of different instruments and visions in the private family accommodation segment and then raise the quality of camps. The promotion of other tourist offers involves investment, investment, the creation of theme parks, beaches, various paths, promenades, centres for visitors, entertainment, shopping centres where these products would have a key impact and raise the attractiveness of our destinations. The third area is investment, given that new investments are a prerequisite for strengthening tourism competitiveness, the strategy clearly defines an investment strategy that envisions a total investment of 7 billion euros by 2020, building new hotels and resorts, around 20,000 new hotel rooms, investments worth 2.2 billion euros, reconstruction and reconstruction of existing hotel facilities worth 825m euros or an additional 15,000 rooms. Investment in small family hotels and pensions where it is planned to build about 200 new small family hotels and with the quality of existing small hotels, the level of investment 300 million euros, investment in floating small hotels where it is planned to form around 100 new floating small hotels and raise the quality of existing levels of investment 110 million euros. And then investment in camps of 400m euros, housing capacities in households of 700m euros as you can see, ports of nautical tourism half a billion euros and congress centres of 50m euros, the thematic parks of 300m euros, and that total offer with the aim of raising them as previously called attractiveness, envisions a level of investment of 1.5 billion euros. In part of the investment environment, it is also envisaged to privatise state-owned enterprises and address the issue of tourist land, which, with better definition, should enable investors to implement their investment policy much easier and much clearer and the approximation is also in our plan for business conditions in our competitive destinations. One of the key indicators in recent years and what we will work on, to make its role as stronger as possible, is the role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is now practically one of the few financial institutions, clearly from the public sector, but which provides quality support for investment in the tourism sector. The next thing you know is the use of EU funds that are planned for the next areas whose programming is now under way and the Ministry of Tourism closely monitors all 7 thematic working groups of tourism interests as a sector, we are working on this and as things are now standing, these activities will be focused on public tourism infrastructure, on private business ventures, so on the small and medium entrepreneurship sector. Very important education projects in tourism, then promotion and protection of the environment. The fourth area of development of human potential, on human potential, all starts and ends, and the goal is a market-oriented system of tourism education. Given that the competitive human potential is a prerequisite for the quality and growth of the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, strong regional centres for tourism education need to be established primarily within the existing network of secondary vocational schools which are fundamental and basic for the further development of staff. Then coordinate the curricula according to the needs of the economy, there is again a crucial, crucial convergence between the private sector and the education system, then establish training centres and technical equipment of vocational schools and the upgrade of the education system consists of establishing a specialised high-level business school and establishing a lifelong education system. The fifth key area, the management of processes where the Ministry of Tourism is defined as the main operator of activities, given the complexity, is envisaged by the horizontality of this sector by the constitution of an inter-minister expert board for tourism whose main task will be to discuss and adopt annual action plans for the implementation of this strategy and, in essence, the professionalisation of the tourism community systems in order to increase their efficiency by destinations. We believe that the system of tourist communities has gained importance in the quality of tourism in this past period. It has been almost twenty years since the establishment of this system, which has so far experienced only fewer changes in view of the new challenges ahead of us with the help of the entire system, so existing actors in the tourism community system aim to stop this system from the ground and make it more functional and more rational to prepare it for the new challenges that are ahead of us. What exactly do we expect from the effect? In tourism by 2020, this is that according to this strategy we will be able to expect the economic effects of newly built, located facilities and other investments related to the increase in the quality of the tourist offer. Very often big markets and our main markets have ceilings especially in that section regarding seasonal peaks, 2 months July and August of these equally important effects and important increases can be expected unless we reach more significant capacities. Croatian tourism should mark seven billion euros in investments in 2020. The number of beds should be at 55 thousand, representing a total increase of 7%. The percentage of use should be 24.7%, 31 thousand new employees, 86 million tourist nights, representing an increase of 43% compared to today and about 14 billion euros in tourism consumption. The strategy also defines a concrete and precise action plan consisting of 26 priority measures which, among other things, relate to a clear definition of changes and addition of legislation, then action plans for the development of certain tourist products, which is extremely important to us and with some of them, we are already making preparations for their launch. Then national programmes for the development of certain segments of installed capacities, the development of a new strategic marketing plan for Croatian tourism and the re-design of tourist communities. A new strategic plan, new marketing, the strategic plan of Croatian tourism was launched two weeks ago. Our goal is to finish this document by mid- autumn and our goal is also to start a new advertising system in the new marketing season. Just a few more words about the strategy process. The strategy was developed by the Institute for Tourism from Zagreb, its preparation included representatives of the Croatian public and private tourism sectors and the general public. For the purposes of drawing up the document, the Institute conducted a series of research into the image and perception of Croatia as a tourist destination, public sector and local population, which included about 5,000 respondents. Eight focused groups were also conducted with representatives of professional associations and other stakeholders in tourism, then seven workshops and 33 deep interviews on the positioning of tourist regions and the development of tourism products. A consultation with the interested public was also carried out at the end of 2011 on the Ministry's website, the first five reports of the strategy were published and the remaining eight reports were published on the websites by October 2012. In accordance with the chronology of their production and in order to keep the public informed of the process of documenting. 15 presentations of the strategy or some of its parts were held in the context of various public events, since 19 October 2012 all materials on the Ministry's website were available to the public and the same day a public presentation of the entire material was held on the days of tourism in Dubrovnik. After that, 30 more days to submit the remarks were sufficient, since the whole document was on the website. Here's so much intro. Thank you for your attention, and we're here for a further discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39073	I thank the ministers. Now we'll hear the replicas first. First respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I noticed your claim that the goal of this strategy is to include all the ends of our country in tourism. It's absolutely to say hello and welcome. But, of course, this goal will be very difficult to achieve, given that without the city of Zagreb, there were some 5.2% and 2.2% of the other parts of our beautiful Zagreb in tourist traffic, so let's say in some part of the night. Although there are potentials in many areas and for religious, cultural and other types of tourism. So in a few years it might be that kind of tourism where people will be coming, watching where people used to grow cows as it started in this situation. But I would like to warn you, therefore, that goal will be difficult to achieve but I would like to warn you of another moment with which the small environments that are poor, which have potential encounters. And this is when setting up tourist offices where standards are imposed quite high that they are unable to reach. In this part, I would like to warn you, therefore, that there is also the need for the office to be important and, of course, qualified people who are not currently able to be educated, and in that part I would like to draw the attention of Mr. Minister to respect, in some way, the specific characteristics of these destinations with potentials and to loosen up, perhaps in some way, that word is not adequate, to be loosed in this section so that these tourist offices can be established because there is indeed both will and potential, and in that sense I think that the result could be achieved far better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39075	Minister Lorencin is gossiping on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39076	Here is the specific system of tourist communities. In fact, it is clear that in those parts, according to the current funding method, there is a certain problem that income sources are not sufficient for tourist communities. This is one of the important things that we will manage to redesign this system and according to the current standards that are worth the tourist communities in these areas, and thus eliminate these insufficient resources because we know that these sources of income are mainly derived from tourism traffic, so the highest rate of tourist tax. What also gives us the possibility and this new strategy foresees a very different way of looking at tourism development, so with the help of destinations where the particularly interior will be recognised and every destination within the interior will be recognised and measures will be created that will, accordingly, produce certain effects and will be much easier to channel, organise, and thus develop. This is the general thing that I can tell you now, but surely action plans that are focused on the development of tourism in the interior they will be much stronger represented also for cows, I was a witness where accommodation in the areas for cows that was very small, and cows were evicted and their number was increased somewhere hundreds of meters away from today's agrotourism so that tourism in this part must certainly be one incentive to develop activity and help further activity in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39077	Thank you. The next line is respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39078	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I wanted to ask you, I really listened very carefully to your presentation, do you really believe in these 14.3 billion total revenues from tourism in 2020? What do you base your optimism on? Not to mention 2025th and those other numbers. And the second reading would be why you intended private accommodation through this document such a vision that says, the desired shift in this segment is to slow down the spread of family accommodation. It is 50% of Croatian tourism today, over 400 thousand beds of various categories that are left to themselves by the authorities in this way. They are the least spoken of in this document, and I say they carry 50% of Croatian tourism. And the question is, what kind of tourism would ours really be if we didn't have that segment? If we were to rely only on destinations, hotels and camps that are given priority here, why is this accommodation not more important, even if it is projected and total reduction in the total registered accommodation fund? Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39079	The reply to the replica of Minister Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39080	As far as private accommodation is concerned, he is described as an attribute of expansion. The expansion happened and it's very clear why this expansion happened. What we do not want to happen is that we continue to encourage this expansion and increase units in private accommodation, and that parallel and that is what is happening on the ground the filling of this private accommodation is approaching the figures of 20 full days per year. This is not responsible and we feel that it is much more responsible when we look at family accommodation, then we encourage a segment called small family hotels and pensions. So there's one big part for growth and development there's only a little bit of a different base. This private accommodation provides for a whole range of measures and one action plan will be fully dedicated to that part of the accommodation where it will be focused exclusively on raising quality, so on additional investment in equipment, additional attractiveness, raising the level of service, connecting the facilities of private accommodation to bifurcated hotels, etc. These are instruments where we simply have to take care of the perspective of this product in the future and it is only for that reason that it is not limited on the other hand, we do not prohibit it and we are taking care of those trends that are already present here because the less filled private accommodation already suffers, and we cannot tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they are going to go to a segment that will not have a perspective in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39081	Third and last replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I have no intention and no desire to criticise, however, I think it is necessary to find such documents but I have the feeling that somehow this continental tourism is underrepresented again, and that these potentials that are constantly said to exist in this strategy's proposal, we haven't readjusted enough attention to them. You mentioned the events here in this continental part of Croatia, so for this very reason I volunteered for the replica because if the trend continued last year, and it was very bad in the continental part of Croatia, especially for certain events that have a tourist character and are the only practical tourist facilities in many units of local self-government that happen and take place. They've all been through or at least a great majority of what I know, very short sleeves, and it's been a question of keeping the event going for 40, 50 years at all. So I think it would be good in the strategy to especially highlight this continental tourism that really has potential, Croatia is a beautiful country, and not to say that it would be necessary to make a detailed analysis after these 20 years of this structure in the Republic of Croatia to see the effects of the county tourist communities, what they have done, what has been achieved, how much has been spent. I think it would be good to scratch a little bit to come up with a variety of knowledge. These are purely suggestions, there are no criticisms, nothing else, but from there it should start and should certainly be particularly highlighted in the strategy of tourism in the continental parts of Croatia. I think he deserves it and there's potential and you said the sun and the sea are on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39083	Replica reply, Minister of Tourism Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39084	Without further ado, I started in this short time, I made a whole series of visits purely for practical reasons because of the preparation of the season of the tourist main I stayed more at sea, but also now I'm going into the interior where I say that tourism in the continental part is at least two or three times harder to develop than on the coast and believe that we are taking care of it. Trust also that through the creation of destinations and through the formation of a new system of tourist communities, the effects and analyses that will be made will be done in a way that will move from the very terrain and the organisation of that territory and look at all aspects that can contribute to tourism. Accordingly, financial instruments will also be developed, and all the effects that we are also taking into account will be reflected. I find it difficult to talk now about events and everything, but definitely a culture where the Ministry of Culture has already taken a number of concrete measures for this season and which are related to the tourist season, but certainly that cultural tourism and manifestations are one of the instruments of expansion throughout the season, not just tourism in the interior. What will be the main feature of a destination in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia which I do not think is necessary to further explain here in this strategic document, quite enough already I think we better focus on that operational level and do it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39085	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Tourism and Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39086	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary Lorencin with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020 at its meeting of 14 February 2013 and I submitted a very comprehensive report. Given that, on behalf of the promoter, the Proposer, or Minister Lorencin, has mostly made all the points made by the applicant at the committee session itself, I will cut this report so short. First of all, I would like to say that the members of the Tourism Committee thanked the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for accepting the initiative of our committee, in line with which this strategic document of tourism development will be the first of its kind so far in these 23 years to be discussed and adopted in the Croatian Parliament. It is, in fact, a fundamental change in approach because this strategy brings the best quality analysis of the situation in Croatian tourism so far and has been created in a process that has been fully open to the public. It is a common desire for both the Committee on Tourism and the Ministry itself to pay the highest possible attention to this document, not only to the political and professional public, but also to the highest legislative body. It will give its highest level of legitimacy through its debate on this strategy and strengthen it in an effort to ensure the needs of the development of Croatian tourism in the development plans of the Republic of Croatia. After the introduction of the proposal, the committee held a debate in which all participants praised the quality of the document and pointed out that it was a roof developmental tourist document that needed a prerequisite for a systematic but faster and more quality development of tourism. In each respect, the expertise of the Institute of Tourism, which developed the mentioned strategy, was also praised. By discussing and adopting a strategy in the Parliament, tourism is becoming a strategic national industry. Some members of the board found that perhaps prior to the publication of the strategy, the parent ministry could create... an analysis of the previous two strategies to give the public an indication of what has been realised so far. The issue of compliance of measures listed in the strategy with the measures of other ministries directly linked to tourism has also been addressed. It was also about the need for sustainable economic use of cultural heritage. In this sense, it is said that protection of space and cultural goods should be managed continuously, but avoiding that space is kept at all costs in such a way that nothing happens in it that it actually loses its value, and cultural goods fail. Often, attention is paid to the need for protection only when an interested investor appears, which is bad. Each investor should know in advance that if he wants to invest in an area where there is a specific archaeological site or cultural well-being, how long this research will take and how much it will cost him today that is not the case, so investors enter a completely unknown area without clear ideas as to what they are obliged to do. In order to align with the real opportunities of certain tourist regions, it is asked once more to consider the division of tourist products into primary, secondary and tertiary given that, in certain parts of the strategy, the emphasis is placed on a particular segment that is not in line with the accompanying infrastructure of the local tourist community and the tourist economy. It is also noted that given the potential of rural tourism, which occurs on about 92% of Croatia's territory, and has its 20 special forms, it may not have been processed together and placed in the same category with mountain tourism. Rural tourism has all the predisposition to become one of the extended tourist season mechanisms. Mountain tourism is also part of the focus on adventure tourism where the issue of insurance from potential accidents has not been resolved, and rescue actions are financed exclusively by the state budget. The Committee considers that although the strategy does not specifically develop the potential of child tourism for third-year persons and market segments, we must not underestimate and ignore it. It is also important that the adoption of a new Law on the System of Tourist Communities, which would transform the existing system into destination management organisations at all levels as well as a brand new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, is soon to be adopted. The idea of creating an inter-minister expert council for tourism is also praised, which will monitor the implementation of action plans, implementation of the strategy and monitor the implementation of agreed activities towards individual holders. The Committee proposed that in terms of modernising Croatia's marketing rankings, a special branding strategy for Croatia as a destination, as well as branding its cities and products and other specialities on the basis of what Dubrovnik and Rovinj have achieved. There were insufficient representations of special forms of tourism such as the development of tourism in the hinterland and islands, a stronger development of the hostel offer which would serve as an abandoned school, factory and warehouse. It is proposed that state-owned tourism companies are set out for privatisation from the AUDIO portfolio and that their privatisation be carried out under a special law that would be limited until the privatisation process is completed. It is also said that this strategy clearly indicates where we are and implies that we have been wrong in implementing our strategies so far, and that we have lost a lot of time because of lack of quality coordination. We need to understand that tourism does not happen on its own, that it is not just a handful of people living in the coastal counties and activities that only happen in summer. We must understand that every citizen of Croatia is already an active participant as a tourist informer. The Committee proposed that the strategy be drawn up especially in a more complex and popular form after adoption in the Croatian Parliament in order to be delivered as such to all tourist organizers and mediators as well as to all other tourist professionals. Equally, we will be able to create an atmosphere where everyone will feel invited to participate in it and thus allow this strategy, unlike some other strategic documents, not to remain a dead letter on paper, but a guideline to the common objectives outlined that will invite us to give as much as we can to draw the line in 2020 and say that we have planned well, and perhaps we have done even more. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the proposal of the Tourism Development Strategy and recommended its adoption to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39087	Thank you. And now I call on the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the esteemed Branko Bačić to introduce us to the views of his committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39088	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session held on 13 March this year, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 6 February. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above proposed strategy as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed strategy was the roof development document of Croatian tourism, which defined key development principles, strategic objectives and tasks to position the Republic of Croatia as a priority for 20 leading tourist destinations by 2020. The strategic goals of development are to improve the structure and quality of accommodation, create between 20 and 22000 new jobs in tourism and about 10,000 jobs in non-tourism activities, realise new investments of around 7 billion euros, and achieve 14.3 billion euros in total annual tourism consumption. Other development of tourism should be based on improving environmental protection, preserving the quality of natural resources and sustainable management and developing the content of the tourist offer. Environmentally responsible development involves the use of modern technical and technological solutions in construction and equipment, for example by reducing heat loss, energy efficient heating, cooling systems, the use of renewable energy sources, rationality in the use of available space, respect for the specific capacity of the destination and micro-location of the project, as well as the possibility of joining existing infrastructure systems. As one of the important products for the development of Croatian tourism, eco tourism was listed by 2020. After the opening argument, the debate highlighted the ecological conservation and biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia as one of its insufficiently used tourist advantages compared to competitors. It is referred to the need to present an extremely rich natural and cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia through a tourist offer. In the context of the World Trade Organisation data, about one third of world tourism traffic takes place in protected areas of nature, and it has been observed that in the chapter of the strategy that defines the action plan and the priority measures to improve the competitiveness of Croatian tourism are not listed directly and indirectly, i.e. the attractive value of the potential of protected areas of nature and the necessity of a priority improvement of their tourist function. It is therefore suggested to complement the action plan to improve their tourist function. Through the action plan, the promotion of the tourism function of Croatian protected areas of nature, which would include, as measures, the rapid adoption of spatial plans for the field of specific features, the definition and establishment of organised visiting systems, the creation of new tourism products for the markets of special interest, for example, multi-day education of thematic route under protected areas of development of partner networks of protected areas and local communities for common accommodation services, gastronomy etc. It is also stressed that the Republic of Croatia has unquestioned resources and widespread natural medicinal factors that are good grounds for the development of health tourism. A planned increase in golf offers has been discussed through the construction of 30 high-quality golf courses and the effects of golf tourism on increasing the attractiveness and better filling of existing accommodation facilities and extending the season, as well as the possible effects of their construction on devasting and polluting space. The importance of the top design of these golf courses and of paying particular attention to their ecological sustainability in planning and building. The proposer further stressed that this strategy, as one of the 26 priority measures of the tourist offer, planned to draw up an action plan for the development of the golf offer. In connection with the planned new construction of hotels and resorts, i.e. The construction of about 20,000 new hotel rooms, i.e. keys and investments of about 2.2 billion euros, has been requested further explanations on the criteria used to determine the predictable spatial distribution of new hotel construction. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Strategy for Development of Tourism by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39089	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Lidija Bagaric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39090	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's to the beginning, given that our minister is here for the first time as a promoter, I want to wish him a lot of success in further management of the ministry. We have the opportunity to discuss here today an important document for future tourism development of the Republic of Croatia, the importance of tourism for Croatia also tells us that the share of tourism revenues in total GDP is over 18%, that directly and indirectly employs around 96.5 thousand employees, which is almost 7% of total employees, and the growth rate is double the average of the Republic of Croatia. However, although we are aware of the importance of tourism and this is particularly expressed at the end of each tourist season when we hope that tourism will save us, we have been without this basic document that we are planning for our tourism development for several years. This is the first strategic document of Croatian tourism, which apart from the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, which gives particular importance and attention. I would like to commend the Ministry and the Institute of Tourism for openness and transparency when drawing up this document because they were available for cooperation throughout the process. In this respect, this strategy differs from most others because the academic community and leading experts in practice as project holders have made it possible to contact all interested actors directly and give the opportunity to influence this document until the end. A comprehensive survey was conducted within and outside Croatia, covering 16 countries, 67 foreign agencies, 580 units of local self-government, 350 tourist communities over 2,500 different respondents from the public and private sectors. After the end of each chapter the materials were placed on the Internet on the Institute's website and the entire interested public had the opportunity not only to carry out an insight but also to give their suggestions and suggestions and literally everyone could get involved. All that went on for about a year. As a result, we have received an integral document of 13 chapters and over 750 pages, which brings the best quality analysis of Croatian tourism, resulting in this summary of the strategy we are discussing today. Croatia produced two similar documents in '93. and in 2003, but none of these documents went through such a wide discussion either when the document was drawn up or when it was adopted. So this strategy differs significantly from previous documents methodologically, structurally and by content, and should indeed become a document that will formally and formally define future development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. It will certainly motivate investors who intend to invest in Croatian tourism because they will be able to assess whether their plans match the developmental direction and priorities of the strategy. The document itself first provides insight into the current state of Croatian tourism and position in relation to competition. The restrictions have already been discussed by the minister. It implies our domination of this one product of the sun and sea, insufficient differentiation of the product, modest tourist infrastructure, inefficient branding of tourist destinations and already mentions the growth based on households, or private accommodation. The document further shows market opportunities and offers a vision of Croatia as a globally recognizable tourist destination, competitive and attractive for investment that creates jobs and manages sustainable development in its entire space, cultivates culture, hospitality, security and authentic content and experience. The vision has produced 10 key developmental orientations that want to be achieved by 2020. The main development objective and operational strategies and action plan has been defined through 26 measures, which the minister has also already talked about that should be done to ensure that the strategy is implemented. The expected effects are ultimately expected by measuring the implementation, i.e. checking whether Croatian tourism is going in the direction this document provides. Croatia is today a globally 34th country of competitiveness in the world and 24th in Europe. So the main development goal is Croatia's entry into 20 world tourist destinations worldwide according to competitiveness criteria. The tourism development strategy is a top document and a basis for defining the tourism development and spatial plans of lower levels. This document highlights space as the most significant and qualitative tourist resource. The experiences of some other Mediterranean countries have shown that unplanned development has led to a major devastation of space that can never be corrected again, and we need to take special care of and be aware of these dangers. Therefore, the next step should be to align the low-level plans with this document and to define development by respecting the principles of sustainable development and the direction defined by this strategy. They must not open the door to savages in space, so the strategy sets priorities and proposes to activate existing unused objects before opening new sites for construction. And here is primarily thought of abandoned military facilities which are in very attractive locations where we already had a special thematic session as a Committee on Tourism. And the importance of the strategy is that the basis for the development of operational programmes, which enables the withdrawal of funds from EU structural funds, is extremely important at a time when the state budget is limited, as it enables easier construction of tourism infrastructure and new attractions. It is definitely something that Croatian tourism lacks and should encourage the realization of projects that increase the attractiveness of the destination. The strategy also shows that it wants to increase the proportion of hotel accommodation from 13% to 18%, then raise the quality of family accommodation and accommodation in campsites, and enrich the tourist offer with additional facilities. And what it aims to attract more tourists and beyond the main tourist season. However, tourism itself cannot get the country out of the crisis, but it is a great opportunity for the development of our islands and less developed rural areas, so for the preservation of tradition and placement of their own agricultural and other products base their development. The strategy itself is a necessary prerequisite for the quality and desired development of tourism, and by adopting it and later implementation we actually manage our tourism future, and we do not allow it to happen in itself as it has often been the case. Croatia has many comparative advantages thanks to its geostrategic position, its natural and cultural beauty, its cultural and historical heritage, but only good planning and successful management of our comparative advantages can be translated into competitive ones. What we lack is stronger destination management and awareness of stakeholders that the benefits of joint action are greater than the sum of individuals when everyone works for himself. I especially want to highlight the importance of branding with an emphasis on our original identity, authenticity and emotion because this is the only way we can differentiate from competition. Because if we don't manage the image of the Republic of Croatia, it's going to go into the world anyway, but most often it's not what we want it to be. And finally, I would like to say that, after the adoption of this strategy, significant steps are expected from the ministry in a legislative sense. Here is primarily thought of a set of laws that define the system of tourist communities, maritime goods problems and problems of tourist land that I believe are already far in preparation and that we will soon have opportunities to discuss here in the Parliament. The SDP representative club will support the proposed strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39091	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Damir Cain, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39092	Mr. Minister, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Well, we all agree that tourism is an extremely important branch of the Republic of Croatia and God forbid it's gone, I don't know what it would be, we'd be like Bosnia, I guess. But let's also admit that we don't have tourism to be like Bosnia, that's what I said. But let's also acknowledge the generations we inherit that, when it comes to tourism, they were not only visionary, but also brilliant. If there's this vision somewhere, this genius, I'd say, can be seen, then I guess you can see it right on our tourism. Istrian tourism is about 30, 32, 33% of Croatian tourism. Why was I talking about this visionary genius one generation there in the 50th, 60th, 70th? 72 hotels were built in Istria by the year 90. From 90th to today, only 4 and 5. So at this rate of construction, we are certainly not going to devastate, which is what we were just talking about, even though it is clearly to be looked after. So the basis that we have today, we were, de facto, 90 years old. Then Croatian tourism, I don't know, I dare say, was perhaps an avant-garde and for European spaces, as it was done. Today, we ask for help from the side to get someone else to start tourism, to take over some abandoned hotel systems, in one word that something is starting to happen on our coast. When it was Mr. Lorencin's presentation I said it was good that Mr. Lorencin didn't come from the tourist sector, and why is it good? Not to do a job for those who took over the hotel sector through the conversion. I think that's very good. The kind that come from these dams de facto do business for their bosses, for money, for profit, the money goes out and follows bonuses, but only big benefits from that policy. Gentlemen, according to some surveys in 2008, Croatian tourism has reached 7.4 billion euros, 2011. 6.6 billion euros, 2012. 6.8 billion euros. So, according to Croatian tourism in 2012, it generates 600 million less income than in 2008, I repeat 600 million euros means less than in 2008 somewhere 3% more than in 2012. Maybe no one believes that, but in order to reach my financial data from 2008. As a country, we will need at least two more years in the field of tourism. But I'd like to talk to you about something else this time. The tourism ministry through journalists has simply convinced the whole nation that we are making 7 billion euros in cash tourism. But I'm asking myself, is that right? And based on one study by Mr. Neven Andric. So let's deal with these figures a little bit, if we were to make 7 billion euros from tourism, it would be about 110 euros per night per guest, which means that a four-member family in a private apartment would spend 440 euros a day per day, which in seven days is 3,000 euros. That's all we can dream about. The number is ten times smaller. Let's compare it to Spain now. Their tourism ministry accounts for consumption by their houseguest. 35 euros a day and per foreign guest 85 euros. Next, local guests make about a quarter of all nights and three quarters away. When we multiply one quarter by 35 euros and three quarters by 85 euros and add that up, we get an average consumption of 75 euros a day and when we multiply it by about 530 million of their overnights, we get that 40 billion Spanish profits from tourism. Just as much as the world trade organisation and their ministry declare yearly and thus direct earnings from tourism. Our consumption per guest was estimated by foreign experts a few years ago, so during Bajs, they estimated 35 euros per day, which amounts to 2.2 billion direct earnings per year on 65 million nights. So this figure could be a real speech and a report by the tourism ministry that says that last year, by the end of the nine months, we earned 19.1 billion kuna by tax administration, which is 2.4 billion euros according to the CNB report. In the last three months of last year, it is expected that or that, according to the tourism ministry statistics, around 3% will be additionally earned, so it is realistic that the earnings for the past year were between 2.2 billion and 2.5 billion euros. Now is it realistic that our guest spends more than half as much as Spain? Now let's look at the structure of accommodation in Spain and in us. The Spanish accommodation consists of 90% of the hotel, only 10% per private house. It's the other way around. 87% are private houses, camps and hotels make up only 13%. We have at the heart of the season some millions of guests simultaneously and the total capacity of all hotels is somewhere around 100,000 beds, slightly less. Furthermore, the structure of the guests in Spain are the main guests of the British, Germans, Dutch, Scandinavians means all of the ranks richer than those who come to our premises, and so I guess they spend more. So where did these famous respectable 7 billion dollars per year come from, from where Minister Župan Pave Ruskovic introduced the so-called 2003. The satellite way of measuring earnings in tourism is thanks to this method of measuring earnings compared to previous 2002. She jumped 40% without anything spectacular de facto happening except that Mate Cirquenac, then the finance minister, said that he doesn't actually see those billions in the budget. We are thanks to Minister Pavi Zupan, the only country in the Mediterranean that measures the profits of tourism in this way. All other countries measure direct earnings. What's a satellite way? It's actually the part of GDP- or gross social product that wouldn't exist if there was no tourism, and that includes all that tourism is driving, from transport, construction, trade, etc. And now I'd say that's not a problem either, but the problem is when we compare our satellite 7 billion euros to Spanish 40 billion, French 50, Italian 36 billion, Greek 10.5 billion or Turkish 20 billion euros in direct earnings. If we compare our 2.2 billion to this total of around 150 billion euros, then it comes that our tourism is about 1.5.2% of European tourism for direct-earth shit. And that's one question that, in some ways, may need to be demystified. So God forbid we make 7 billion euros on the coast, brother's length, 6000 kilometers on the continent, which we can also say is perhaps one of the most attractive in European spaces. If that were the case in Istria, then there should be about 30% of that money, the cirque 2.5 billion, almost 20 billion kuna. If he said the Circle didn't see that result in the state budget and God forbid I see him down in Istria. What's a big problem is a lot of money when it comes to tourism by privatised companies from these areas. By 2012, by the time tourism in Istria was about 700 million kuna, and now I'm asking myself a question, a good thing will invest, etc., how much of that money does it really leave the Istrian spaces? Will the tourism sector in Istria build a new hotel in 2013? He won't. Will they build a new hotel in 2014? No, 2015? He won't. And so much of this story from this 20 thousand-bedroom strategy to 2020 simply doesn't stand. This strategy here needs to be corrected. I repeat, by the 1990s, Istria had received 72 hotels, and from the 1990s to today 4, 5 hotels. And now you should be careful, of the 20,000 rooms in Croatia, if Istria is 1/3 in Istria to be built somewhere around 7,000 rooms or about 50 hotels, come on God, but please who can believe it. Those who advocate it, I don't think they're real. Let's let Brijuni Riviera go now, etc. I won't talk about it. This strategy was commissioned by Mr. Bice, developed by the Institute of Tourism, the government adopted, forwarded to the Parliament, and we will certainly vote for it and adopt it. We'll vote yes. Let's move on, 15 thousand hotel rooms will be renovated, 5 grand in Istria in seven years. It's hard, but come on. Fifteen thousand strings should be built in the marinas, please. Is that just possible? Oh, my God. 7 billion euros in investment in 6 years, maybe but I doubt it too. In 2020, revenue from tourism 14.3 billion euros, God forbid. Those who participated I think in privatisation I think we should start by keeping it where it comes true whether it's about Luksic, Count Eltz, Arena tourist or some other systems. All they have to do is get them to invest 24 hours on the disposition, not to make money. What about Concara? When are we going to experience some of his investments? Gentlemen, invest. No new hotel was built in Rabac from the '90s until 2013. In Pula, no new hotel, in Vrsar, no new hotel, in Poreč which is 10% of Croatian tourism, no new hotel, in Fažana, Vodnje that down there is no new hotel, in Rovinj thank God Adris 2 caps down, in the area of Bujština in Umag there Novigrad etc. 2 or 3 hotels one is Kempinski via HYPO bank and that's it. Why am I saying that? Croatia is in serious trouble. Those who received Croatian Istrian tourism through coupon privatisation simply do not invest, and Croatia without investment questions whether or not it will survive. I didn't happen to mention the period until '90. By the 1990s, a Poreč had met all its agricultural needs for the area of the city and tourism in its area of flour, meat, etc. For six months, the workers worked in tourism, worked in the industry for six months. Now everything is being imported, and that's why I said that people like one Stifanic, Restovic, were really brilliant for those opportunities. Tourism needs Croatia for investment, for economic growth, for jobs, for the sake of the country's identity, but above all we need for the market. Tourism is a Croatian market, tourism is a Croatian market, tourism is kind of the belly of Croatia. We are entering the EU will be flooded by some of their goods, and therefore we need to raise awareness that we are simply buying what is ours. What we need to get as soon as possible, when this land will finally be built in camps touristically so-called. start charging, and what will be the gentlemen with these visas for Turkish and above all here I mean the Russian guests? I read somewhere today that visas are waiting between 5 and 8 hours in Russian consulates or our consulates in Russia, etc. So we're just gonna lose that clientele. Let's get the gentlemen in the ministry moving because this season is hardly going to be the way they were before. All in all, one good try. There's some details I've been talking about that I'm putting the reserves on. Normally, let it go on, we'll accept it but in these figures that we're suggesting I think we'll have to wait some time after 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39093	They're following the replicas. First respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39094	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully to you, and it was really nice to listen to you explain how your income is calculated from tourism. This is a new moment in Croatian history, and you certainly nominated yourself today for a new minister to take you as an adviser when it is necessary to count how much Croatia earns from tourism. But here all the time you spoke in some way against this strategy, disputed certain parts, but you also said that you would accept it, although before, I don't think it was more than two or two months ago when Minister Ostojic presented this strategy said it would happen at the time that Blanca Vlasic skipped the 3m line or when Dinamo won the Champions League. Are you standing in that position today, or has something changed for you when the new minister arrives?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39095	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39096	I didn't say that, said former tourism minister Mr. Herak, that this strategy in those parts will be achieved at the moment that Dinamo wins the Cup of Champions. I simply wondered if it was possible to expect that 20,000 new hotel rooms would be built on the whole of the Republic of Croatia, which is about 200 new hotels in the period from 2014 because this 2003 will not be built any of them until 2020. When we talk about tourism income, it's not any new calculation, it's calculations, it's seen from the Ministry of Finance, it's seen from CNB data that says direct revenues from tourism are between 2.2 billion and 2.5 billion euros. The other thing is when we talk about so-called. satellite revenues or satellite way of calculating, and then we count both transport and investment and everything else, and then somehow we get to those 7 billion euros or about 15, 16% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia for the past year. God forbid that in the years ahead of us, in those 6-7 years we have planned or we have 14.3 billion euros of planned income, that 7 billion euros are planned to be investments, that we have 20,000 new hotel rooms, that we restore 15000 hotel rooms and build 15000 berths in our marinas. God forbid that happens, and we'll be overjoyed if it's 1/3 of what's here in this strategy is proposed and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39097	Second replica, respected representative Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39098	I thank you, Vice President. Well, I would also look back at this part of investment, and I would say that I didn't realize that these investments have to happen within that range, but simply the strategy gives the framework and invites investors to engage and give some kind of maximum that wants to be built in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So I didn't realize it had to be an investment because the Ministry can't pull the investor's sleeve and tell him how much he has to invest in the Republic of Croatia. These are our wishes, and within that we will give maximum incentive, but of course you cannot guarantee it in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39099	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39100	It's nice to wish, but the respected lady MP's life is a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39101	Third replica, respected Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, I'm sorry, but I have to say it's not the first time there's been a lot of inconsistency in your speech, a lot of contradictions, and a lot of misunderstanding, so I'd like to ask you for some clarifications. So, first of all, you spoke very strongly about certain parts of the strategy and the resolution for the speaker, saying that it should certainly be changed, and then you said that you would support this strategy on this text and accept it. And secondly, I'm particularly interested because you repeated twice turning to the MPs, so that Croatia would be like Bosnia if there were no tourism. So please explain to us how you thought it would be Croatia under international patronage, whether you meant it economically or whether Croatia would have had better kevapee in that case or what you thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39103	What he meant now would say in response to the replica, the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39104	... If for the first time, ma'am, you noticed a contradiction like you said in my speech, then I'm very pleased. (Laughter) [[Specially enabled.]] Even I don't, so much I wouldn't overestimate myself. (Laughter) But as far as Bosnia is concerned, it's a beautiful country, it's a proud country, it's a country and the Croatian people, Bosnia and Herzegovina, yes. I was thinking about the economic moment and I think my steps might have applied, but Bosnia is a great country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39105	We will also hear the last replica of the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39106	My colleague Cain, I have also listened very carefully to your exposure for two reasons. The first was that I found it difficult to follow your statistical analysis because the number of rooms increased or decreased from sentence to sentence, so it was hard for me to agree. And the second reason was that you are a candidate for mayor in Istria County, so as an Istrian, I am interested in whether you will support this strategy, or whether you will be elected mayor or not. Again, I didn't realize if it would be in or out. However, what I reported for the replica is, you mentioned Rabac and said by the '90s, by 2013, nothing was invested, so here I would just like to tell you that all the force was made to reconstruct existing hotels, increase capacity, quality and service. There's been a lot of money invested in all of this, and I think the rabbi like that, given everything that's been done doesn't deserve to say something like this at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39107	Not like this, colleague Cain. We all know the Rules of Procedure and colleagues have noticed that you did not report in time. I can't give you my word. You called after the presentation, I'm sorry. ... My friend Cain, you didn't get... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Caine's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39108	It's not concentrated because I didn't say that nothing was invested in Rapco, but I said that no new hotel was built in Rapco. That's what I said, and you know as well as I do and all those who live around Rapco.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39109	My colleague Caine, like this. No one in this House can speak until he's told. Despite my warning, you kept talking on your own. Look, this is the Croatian Parliament, so please choose to respect it while you are in it. I give you a warning. We're continuing an individual debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Josip Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39110	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Ministers with Assistants. So here we heard today in the opening speeches, this is an important document of the tourism strategy by 2020. However, the moment we are discussing is also important. The fact is that this strategy was signed by former minister, Minister Ostojic, that it was presented by him and even by the Assembly on the parliamentary committee while we are here at the plenary session discussing the new minister's presentation. I've already talked about it, but I have to point out once again that in these political games, within this ruling same ruling coalition in the fight for power and armchairs in Istria, there was no choice of funds, and unfortunately one expert minister in my opinion, who became unwanted because someone else wanted another chair. And I'm really sorry that in the first year he showed that he knew his job as he convinced us, reduced VAT to 10%, increased VAT entry thresholds from then 80 to 230 thousand kuna, increased capacities in private accommodation from those limiting 16 beds, etc. There were times where he showed he knew his job. But he had to go and say it. A new minister came after 6 hours of debate because it was really important here at the moment for Croatia to have the space to give Croatian tourism that is very important to the head of the event as an important person. Minister, I do not dispute your knowledge, but I wish you all all the happiness and satisfaction or all that to use for the benefit of Croatian tourism, but indeed some of the details in this document are such that we have to discuss them a little bit, so I will try to list them. We are in this preparation of the strategy, the preparation of the strategy we started in 2010 a former minister when a project task was carried out, the competition was announced were selected those who need to agree and write it, it was the same and presented in one part of the Days of Croatian Tourism in 2011. In a way, it's a two-government document in two different times. This presentation of the strategy was followed by a famous film that was a video that, at that time, when he came out, he said the following, I'll read it. I think it's also very important that the messages were good. "7 years is not little nor many, time flies quickly beside us, to live beautiful moments worth more than anything. When you find that place and you want to go back there, for once again you want to share that feeling with someone you love, feel what it's going to be in seven years, even if it seems a long way away, it's actually close. 2,500 days and nights that we can make someone unforgettable. We have so much to tell and show, so much to try, touch, so much to watch, so much to feel means to come to Croatia, to feel it means to be host" and then to finish the film with the message "Tourism are emotions". This document that we are discussing today with its 7 chapters clearly defines Croatian tourism today through global trends to the vision of 2020 with projected economic impacts, operational strategies and action plan, may be one of the best documents that has come to this House in the past year and a half. The potential of one small coalition party or their people is visible, but unfortunately they had to leave for other reasons. And we do not really dispute in HDZ that much of the opening part, but when we come to page 31, called Strategic Goals and Tasks for the Development of Croatian Tourism, we ask ourselves certain questions. What does it say there? The proportion of accommodations measured by the number of beds in hotels increased from 13.1 in 2011 to 18.1% while the share of camps increased simultaneously from 25.2 to 25.8% and the family accommodation in households decreased from 48.7 to 43.4%. There will be between 20 and 22 thousand new jobs and about 10,000 jobs in non-tourism activities but induced tourism activities, new investments of 7 billion will be realised, 14.3 billion euros in total annual consumption of 12.5 billion on foreign and 1.8 billion on domestic consumption. What do we have today? In 2011, Croatia had 852 thousand permanent beds in registered commercial accommodation facilities of which 13% in hotels, camps 25, in other collective capacities 13, and in households 49. Of which the northern Adriatic has the highest share in the capacity of 52%, the southern Adriatic has 45% of Croatian accommodation capacity. In 2011 there were almost 90,000 employees and 6.4% of total employees in Croatia. Total tourism consumption in Croatia in 2010 was achieved at 7.3 billion euros. I say, of course, when we look at what it says, we have to ask ourselves, because at today's economic development point, we better say stagnations and even back East, when the adoption of a number of measures that deter any investment desire from realisation, when we send out a message that we have a state with the highest number of taxes and countries expensive to invest, when it becomes more desirable to have nothing, because with what has been created for decades harder and harder to live because the state has put itself, through the current government, in the role of an arbiter who decides on everything with special rights to trample acquired values in all areas of life in the function of only one goal of maintaining the stability of state finances. The question then arises after all that I have stated if in the time of the biggest economic growth and better investment opportunities in the past 10 years we have made progress of 60 thousand new bearings, most of which occurred in the so-called so-called area. run into the coastal area of the island or called it a more popular apartmentisation, so we are in the phase of today resuscitating such a situation under the notion of legalization. If we have come to 7.4 billion euros in 10 years in that period since 2003, I say the growth we had in one period that is based on the story that in just 7 years with the situation in which we are today and it is demotive and depressing, with the decline of all indices that would mean any growth, we will achieve the objectives of the strategy in particular in the number of new beds and total earnings as well as the expected levels of investment in tourism. We unfortunately do not see these possibilities especially given the state of spatial-planning documentation in our 7 coastal-island counties. All these spatial plans are currently in changes and additions and almost none have been adopted, and what happens within the communication of these people who care about spatial planning is worrying. In the past 10 years, we have failed to relive almost one of the many tourist zones, and new spatial plans impose new standards where and what is already in existence in nature, constraints or decreases. I will give an example of only one camp in a place where I come from that has a capacity of 3400 accommodation units, where the Primorje-Gorski County spatial plan requires it to reduce capacity by almost 40%. How to achieve such increases in projected here in the strategy when spatial plans tell us something else. When we add to that what it says on page 64. 107 million overnights in commercial accommodations. 77% more than 2011, 114 million overnights, 18 and a half billion total consumption. Almost 11 billion more than today. 45 to 47,000 newly employed in tourism activities and 13 billion new investments over the period means 12 years. This story of the seriousness written in the strategy takes shape as colleague of Kai's science fiction said. Of course that's where the optimists can find themselves, too, who see an opportunity in every problem. However, our society is still in depression and problems, and I think it would be better if we were a little more realistic in those parts of the strategy regardless of the need for optimism. The second problem that I quote here and which is subject to discussion are the criteria by which projects were put into the same strategy at the end of this strategy. Did these criteria even exist? We are talking about 163 projects important for the future of Croatian tourism. He also said at the beginning that this is the basis for withdrawing funds from the EU funds. How to accept the fact that there is in some way very important Istra, Dalmatia is important, and Kvarner with Gorski Kotar is there to be satisfied with what, as the Prime Minister recently said here you are at the level, you are well, you do not have much need for new projects. That is what this strategy clearly says. It is inconceivable to me as an agent who comes from Kvarner and Rab Island that there is no mention of the island in such a strategy, that the island, with its millions of nights, does not deserve a single development project annually, let alone that in the future it might be referred to a document like this. And the third very important reason is projected to reduce the importance of private accommodation in the share of Croatian tourism from 48% to 43%. 50% of all available tourist beds in the country make up those in private accommodation. Privates are an unwanted child left to the verse, to themselves. As someone once said, rejected by the altar and wallet of every tourist authority. Nevertheless, many renters well handle all modern sales channels, offer through agencies, try to sell and break through and in all possible ways, and have success in doing so. However, these private tenants do not have a more respectable roof association, they do not have their representatives in any of the major state bodies dealing with the tourist problem. They're an unwanted child as I said left to myself and to the brutal laws of the market. And it wouldn't be a problem if many of them hadn't invested and raised loans to their accommodation facilities, to apartments, to maintain standards. Those silent and rarely frightened today I must say this to the owners of 415000 beds mostly raised loans to move from a dead spot, and then the government sends them a message like this, unfortunately we don't need you in that form, we need hotels and camps. Private beds have their own faithful clientele because our hosts are directly and warmly recognized by strangers, and times are getting harder, so I guess it would be logical that these private beds that are usually cheaper than hotels in the future could obviously and better work. However, first of all, it would be necessary to change something, I say, in this strategy. That's where I go back to that movie and the story of tourism is emotion. So they're not emotional hotels and hotel rooms, they're not real estates, camps and accommodation units. These are people who are in this particular strategy, perhaps at least, covered except in one segment, where their role in education or advancement or taking some courses or I don't know what to prepare for the challenges that follow us. We have problems in destination policy today, because we are in the delusion that poor exploitation actually depends on the quality of accommodation. Rarely when there is a house, apartment or room reason to arrive at the destination. The problem is destination policy. Tourist communities must manage the destination. However, we do not have a new Law on Tourist Communities. It would be good to hear that too, because every new minister has a new vision of tourist communities, and they must finally come into that position to unite everything he knows about tourism in some location and to give their qualities in it. What I want to say at the end, I'm saying there's not much about people, I want to end this with a desire to really do what it says here would be good to change at least some parts, given that this is already in the second reading, we can't, we're going to support this at the HDZ club, although maybe today it's time to be realistic, not as optimistic, because everything around us points out just how our failure doesn't give God in the future on this segment of tourism wouldn't be even bigger than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39111	There will be replicas now, but before the replica one notice. The meeting of the Tourism Committee scheduled for tomorrow 26 April at 10:30 will be held on the same day, so tomorrow, but at 9.30 p.m. and at that hall Ivan Kukuljevic, it is a club of representatives. So the Tourism Committee tomorrow instead of 10:30 at 9.30. We're moving on to replicas. First, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Boric that with certain fences and the need to complete this strategy, the HDZ Club will support this strategy. But I would still like the government's position if Mr. Minister could tell us something about it when we talk about a detailed description of the measures of tourism policy. So measure 2 is planning to adopt a new Investment Acceleration Act, i.e. the Lex Specialis Act, which would speed up the resolution of strategic investments in Croatia. Since the European Parliament criticised the government's intention to pass and pass this law with its resolution whether the ministry in this strategy remains in the view that one law that would be passed through Croatian legislation would be necessary and put aside a series of laws, as the original law considered whether the Government continued to do so? The second thing you mentioned about the government was, as soon as it was established, and in its programme, it planned to pass the Law on the Sea Good. Since there is already almost half of the government's mandate, and yet this law has not been drawn up in the draft according to my findings, it seems to me that in that part too this strategy is practically late. Late and passing the law itself. The more often there have been speeches in this House that the existing law has slowed the construction of nautical centres in Croatia through the procedure of establishing maritime goods borders. At the same time, this strategy writes in the section relating to the assessment of the situation that in the last 10 years the number of ports of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia has increased by 50% and the marina by 20%. So much for the slowness of this procedure of the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39113	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39114	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Bačić, I agree with you because I asked at first whether we have the strength today, whether the minister today has the strength in view of the atmosphere in which he came to the post, let's say, on the path of an initiative that has already been current for almost a year, and it's called real estate tax. I believed that Mr. Veljko Ostojic could do it because he knows, and so did the tourism workers yesterday, that it was a burden too much for them. That such a tax will take them, say, 2 to 5% of their incomes, that it's a new cost to them. That we don't talk about thousands and thousands of squares owned in private, means in family houses in private accommodation that will be subject to exactly taxation on that side. It would be something that would convince us that indeed the Ministry of Tourism has its purpose because I say it in view of the amount of budget of some 200 million kuna, given everything that is written here, given the 2013 year where tens and dozens of measures should be launched we are late. We're already in the middle of the year, and many legal regulations aren't even in the draft yet. If we really want to bring in a document like this that says it well, then here's what we'd like to hear from all of this, which is, in the end, beautifully drawn in the cubes where 2013 is the most important year, the most important one, which is going to happen. And even if we're about to get the Marine Good Act, because on other committees, we find out that there's no way this law could have been done 10 months ago in any procedure at all, it doesn't exist. No one can solve the problems of the marine good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39115	A respected counterpart, Branko Vuksic, also reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39116	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric here is proof that the good law or good strategy is not difficult to agree on. So, we had that set of judicial laws that everyone in the House supported, and this is proof that the opposition is not the target of criticism, but the opposition's goal is to get to some goal by analysing it. She's often resilient when it comes to bad laws. I also agree with you that this document is the best thing that we've got on benches in the Croatian Parliament, but it's contradictory of some of the things that you've spoken essentially about this document, you said that what I like about the science fiction document is actually what I like most about it, it's a profit from tourism in 2020, 14.3 billion euros, so the nicer it is when you're a government back there, and it's still 2 and a few years old, if it lasts until the end of the term, so some big goal. It's actually something to me in this darkness, this tape of optimism raises some hope for me, and I don't think it's unrealistic for Croatia to have that kind of profit in 6.7 years. If we're going to do this document, it actually gives us the opportunity to start tourism, that what we have with all those natural benefits, that precisely with the actions that the government and government are going to launch, we're going to get to that end. And I think it's one of the most positive sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39117	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39118	So, Mr Vuksic, I say in my debate I tried to find out the real strength of today's tourism ministry because if you write a pro-active fiscal policy in tourism in measure 6, then write a continuous examination of the possibilities for reducing the fiscal press. Then the seriousness of the document is that someone in that government who raises his hand, that's what he saw, and then if that's what it says, then we can't increase that press, no matter what the problems of the state budget are. Because if tourism is only seen at the level of the state budget, then we'll come to Mr. Cain's story of how much he's making from it and what one of them has. And that's why I read to you what the minister of the former in that video said, and he said once again: "You should feel what will happen in seven years, even if it seems a long way away, it's actually close, 2,500 days and nights that we can make someone unforgettable.", if this remains only a document that is good, a document that is good that we all agreed on, and it is not done exactly as it says, then what someone writes will change, i.e. We will not have unforgettable tourism, but we could ask ourselves after 7 years if we have forgotten the same tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39119	A respected colleague, Lidija Bagaric, also applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39120	Thank you. Dear fellow, in your debate, you said that we are sending investors a picture of a country with the highest tax rate, so I just want to remind you that this government has reduced VAT from 25 to 10%, of course, to tourism services. And the other thing, while you were talking about private accommodation, I got the impression that you wanted further apartmentization of the Croatian coast because you criticised that the strategy wanted to increase the share of the hotel in the total accommodation. Well, of course that's what you want. So hotels are those that can expand the whole season, apartments are limited to the 2nd month of the summer season, and hotels are those that offer additional services and where we can get more nights for less construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39121	And this replica is answered by Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39122	I say everyone in tourism has the right to their own experience, tourism is emotions, that's what it says here. You have your experience, I do tourism, and I know what private accommodation means, and I don't consider it any less important than the hotel. You close the hotel in winter but residents live in the area and live on tourism. And the one who says that his desire to reduce it is to reduce it, to grow some elite part of tourism, to build some hotels because it's an investment why he doesn't offer an opportunity on the other side. We had a good programme a long time ago, a success incentive programme that gave some quality to Croatian tourism in a short time. Then it went away because there's no money, I don't know about interest subsidies, who was close or faster that took advantage of it, you don't have it anymore today. Why don't you take it back, and encourage the investment, who says 55,000 renters can't build a new capacity, who can claim it at all? They are quite able and can achieve 20,000 new beds much faster than all the hotel investors combined, just give them a chance. So they're in debt by interest of 9, 10%, so how do you even look for cost-effectiveness on that segment, no one's in favour of apartmentisation, but allow that accommodation that nobody cares about, and there's half of tourism. So what's not embarrassing is that there are no private representatives, renters in the tourist community and carry 415 000 accommodation units, half tourism. And you don't have a chance at all to be in that, let's call it, to the tourist government. Well, those are facts to be said. If you think you're going to realize this the way it is, it's your right, we rightly, given the moment we live and he's depressed, people are drinking us more antidepressants than they used to, we don't see these new 7 billion euros in profits. We don't see them, and they won't be safe, and then we'd better write three, so our failure will be less.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39123	Now we'll hear what Minister of Tourism Darko Lorencin thinks of everything he says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39124	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the esteemed ladies of Parliament's MPs and MPs. Here I felt clean, since the debate goes in a certain course in the process to react to private accommodation. I will underline and say again, we cannot act irresponsiblely, we must tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia exactly what is going on and we must say exactly what will happen on the market if we are in the profession. We are neither defending nor restricting the development of private accommodation, first and foremost. Even, second and far more important in this way we begin to take care of private accommodation, we are absolutely starting to take care and one reasonable measure affects their quality and better positioning on the market. Statistics are very accurate, ruthless and says, suggest with the development of other accommodations that the filling of private accommodation falls. We also have a spatial problem where we also have to take care of the zones. We also have the fact that as a result of the increase in hotel accommodation of smaller adjustments in the segment and the growth of camping when the hotel accommodation is built will relatively decline and the share of the private sector will be reduced. That's all that's happening in that prism. What about the profit? It's a vision. This defines certain objectives which are sought after a given seven-year period. No one can know that. Look at the world's strategies we ask the leading people who run multinational companies, who have plans for 20 years, say after six months we don't know what's going to happen. But clearly, in the prism of generation and generation, to kill entire policies in one different way that we get this strategy, we have to set certain goals. Whether they're going to be at ten billion or eleven or nine every growth will be a success. But we've put a growth of 7 billion and a rise to that level of 13.14 billion euros. How long we'll be and how right we'll see it then. And we have subordinated one whole set of objectives that will be defined by action plans among other things. But the fact is that today, this year 2013, we have 2.6 billion kuna investment in tourism. The fact that new capacities are being built, that existing capacities are being restored. What is also related to the laws of the tourist communities and all these actions followed by the adoption of the strategy first and basic strategic marketing plan, the second most important document stemming from this strategy is already in the phase and procedures of production. So that's what's going on. It goes through the summer a whole series of action plans based on this strategy and that main and basic challenge provided by this strategy is relatively good strategic document can be made relatively easy on everything else. But that main challenge is its implementation and I can guarantee you that from the first moment and this formal part of the de facto implementation of this strategy has already begun, that we are going to insist there. What about the tax press? The tax press is certainly not reducing the value added tax rate which has not only absolute and that effect in the first stage but has a much wider and much stronger element and it is primarily showing investors that Rh counts with this branch. This is just as important as the Investment Encouragement Act where tourism becomes the subject of the law for the first time. For the first time, therefore, investment in tourism will be able to achieve tax reliefs, it will also be able to achieve incentives for new job openings such as all other sectors. In that direction, as far as everything else is concerned, I believe that the Ministry of Tourism will always be based on this strategy and will certainly get one quality tool, one quality basis that will be measurable, I believe that we will have a chance and more times whether for this speaker, whether from these benches talk on that subject and first of all just one small detail, my colleague said that my predecessor had gone because someone wanted the chair. To be clear, loud and clear, I didn't want a chair, which doesn't mean I have the absolute honor of being a tourism minister just because of the purity of the relationship to be taken care of and done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39125	Now comes one longer time of replica. First respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39126	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, when I was talking about the chair, I didn't mean you. I meant a gentleman who wanted to be mayor, but it doesn't matter. I'm going back to private accommodation again. I say in the period 2005-2011 the number of nights in private accommodation grew 50%, 50%, and of course we say now move aside a little bit, we should now hotels, camps, etc. Because it's a quality, it creates additional values, content. It's like these people can affect that. I guess that's why we have a system of tourist communities and what I said when we're going to get the Act on Tourist Communities. There's a local election now. It's all connected in some way. The mayors, mayors, tourist presidents, are now presidents of tourist communities, etc. that we know what we're going to do, i.e. that they know what to do next. Because if it's really true that the guest is coming to our country because of the room, the apartments, the accommodations, three four stars, maybe it's one small important moment. I think it's much more important what the destination can offer him, i.e. a product and content that might attract them. And that main role should be played by just the tourist communities. That's what I was talking about. Because if we don't know how to sell the story, we don't know how to sell the space or the sun or the sea, we can have the best hotels that are also doing better today, some of the weaker ones because they don't know how to sell the story. Tourism is exactly, I think so too, so I'm just asking that if it's possible for the Ministry to take a more proactive position, however, because it's left to itself today and we all know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39127	Next up is a replica of a colleague of Branko Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd say only one sentence here. Namely, you told ministers not to limit anyone in solving private accommodation. I will talk again about continental Croatia where, without incentives, subsidies, people's attraction, people's motivation, there will be no development of tourism, and I think that private potential should be encouraged more, especially in the continental part. And when we talk here about the reconstruction of a tired tourist offer, I don't understand why the programme in this strategy did not find Marija Bistrica as a potential that can offer much more than what is happening there. For example, one Medjugorje where this private accommodation potential has been developed, why don't you say, in the strategy, have Maria Bistrica as a special sanctuary for our national development means private accommodation, that this religious tourism starts to happen differently, not to be one day but to have people coming and staying there. In that part, I don't think it's enough to say that it's not stopping anyone but that we have to push it a little harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39129	Replication response, Minister Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39130	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, and it also refers to the answer of the other MPs who referred to this list of projects. In fact, it's one particular fund of projects that goes along with a strategy that has one but really planic dimension. The key and all the measures we encourage will, primarily in the direction of the development of tourism infrastructure, be contained in lower strategic documents, but will also be the subject of public calls where both the public and private sectors in this direction will be able to return equally and be included in these programmes. I'm alluding here primarily to structural, or cohesion instruments. The Act on Tourist Communities is currently a guideline for its construction and will be launched in parallel with the strategic marketing strategy during the summer. And it's just a little bit more incentive-related. The former credit lines for success in the finalisation are together with the HBOR which can be said in the past and this year has launched a very high-quality credit line for tourism and we want to continue to strengthen the role of the HBOR where the situation in terms of criteria has been greatly improved and when it comes to the manual of return, conditions and so on. So there will be one credit line for small facilities where all projects will be able to run both inland and on the coast and for large projects as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39131	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39132	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I expected you to refer to several of the remarks we made in this debate in your first report after the opening argument. I gave one on behalf of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection as a suggestion that the strategy is complemented by the Action Plan to improve the tourist function of Croatian protected areas of nature, and then I said that according to the World Trade Organisation, almost 1/3 of world tourism traffic is happening in these areas. So I am interested in whether the Government is really considering adopting such an action plan, given the importance that the tourist offer is contributed by protected areas of nature in the Republic of Croatia such as national parks and nature parks. I believe that this segment should be specifically processed. The second point I made was the fact that the European Parliament criticised the government's intention to pass a law on strategic investment projects. As you seem to me one of the authors of this law I think that you are a rather invited person to then our question, and given the European Parliament's position, and the opposition and a large part of the Croatian public are manifested, given that it is in this strategy that the adoption of this law is prescribed as one of the measures. Therefore, we would also do well to see what the government and you as one of the authors of the law is, and it would be good if there was a chance that the strategy itself would be complemented by an action plan that would indeed allow Croatia, which would make the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament truly valorise the role of the entire tourist product, the role of national parks in Croatia, because it seems to me that in national parks and in nature parks, over 3 million visitors visit them annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39133	Replication response, Minister Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39134	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'm sorry I skipped, but here's the fine print I wrote you those two things. Yeah, absolutely an action plan. We have a term of eco tourism that essentially provides that the segment of the development of tourism activity in protected areas of nature is particularly seen, since the Republic of Croatia not only national parks but also other protected parts of nature have a very large area and this is seen in the function of tourism and nature protection. So if we look at the function of tourism, then it is protected, then for one marketing purpose it is quite possible to make quality use of, and on the other hand, by quality management of these protected parts of nature and by achieving certain financial effects, and these parts themselves are being protected so that the action plan for this is envisaged. As far as the Strategic Investment Act is concerned, it is absolutely a matter of European Parliament's objections. And I must say that, in conclusion, on the 19th of March with which I was appointed to this new duty, not a single concrete remark within the meaning of the article, this and that, that it does not correspond, that it cannot pass by either of the European Parliament, either by the European Commission or by the European Commission we have not received. So what I believe is that this law that does not derivate and puts aside the power of other laws already plays a role in the only effective implementation of large and strategic projects will soon be put into follow-up procedure. It's probably also connected to Mr. Vrdoljak's return from America.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39135	The replica of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39136	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you said the fill of private accommodation was falling. I'd say not everywhere. For example, the city Guide in 2012 for the first time recorded a number of over a million overnight stays, among other things thanks to private accommodation. The capacity that was built was invested in a lot of money, effort, work, and there is also a long tradition. We know by the sea that there are guests who are happy to come to the same households for 20, 30 and 40 years, and we have a responsibility not to put these objects in another plan and to give them even more importance. When it comes to tourism and this proposal The strategy for tourism development is full of praise and talk about the gross social product of over 18%, not to say at the end of the tourist season we all enjoy taking pictures and talking about it. However, when a state budget is adopted, the figures indicate something else entirely. Some ministries receive tens of billions of kunas while the tourism ministry, for example, in 2013 secured only 281 million kuna in its budget, and in 2014. 239 etc. which means a lot of plans and budget projections for next year's money even less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39137	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, here's what you're talking about is the implementation of this strategy, so one quality strategic project, but that the main challenge will actually be not just the strategy and its adoption but the implementation of the strategy, so you said and promised that it would be implemented very quickly, that it would only wait to be adopted, and then activate a series of action plans that come out of it. However, I doubt it, I find it quite unbeliefable for the reason that there are several measures that absolutely did not need to bring a strategy and that this government of yours has been able to implement for a year and a half. First of all, I am referring to the amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, which the Government has long spoken of, and has done nothing. So there are no proposals in front of the Croatian Parliament and there will be no proposals soon, and the other amendments are to the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land. So, as we know your predecessor minister is this, like other ministers, some other current laws simply put their words out of line and told us we will not implement them, although this government swears on some other cases that Croatian laws must be implemented. So, I ask why the existing Tourism Land Act is not implemented and why not charge what the Croatian State can charge, but waits with its changes according to the wishes and appetites of some stakeholders. And if you thought it was really bad why in a year and a half no one submitted him for his amendment and supplementation. That's exactly how you talked about the strategic, strategic investment bill. I guess you know the European Parliament resolution, but I don't have time to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39139	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39140	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39141	Turn on the mic, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39142	... that in rural areas we are particularly interested in connecting continental and maritime Croatia to what the colleague spoke before and making a market in the extreme sense that we can sell our products. However, that is not the case in nature because many times we testify to buying any unquality food, and unfortunately ours remains unsold. You said you were doing capacities in that sense, and we also don't see unfortunately in rural areas that these capacities are working. But I repeat that it is important for us to make it easier for us in that part of the tourist communities and tourist offices, given that we have the potential for both religious and health and any rural tourism. In that part, therefore, do not impose high criteria for opening the office and high professional staff regardless of what we respect because we simply are not able to satisfy it for material reasons and for this reason, and it would be helpful and perhaps one way you say action plans will work, so in that sense I am putting that into thinking which would be of great help to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39143	And the last line of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39144	Dear Minister, here were two issues already related to the Strategic Investments Act, and you mentioned that tourism infrastructure will also be encouraged in terms of the new investment cycle. At the very end of this document that we are discussing today there is a list of both brownfield and greenfield projects that are planned for the period treated by this strategy. But I would be very interested in what methodologies and how this choice was made. I believe that there have been certain consultations with interested people in Croatia, but at first glance I think this list can and should be updated but also in a certain way that it should perhaps be connected in some places more of what is separated. But I'm curious in what way? Could it have been a public call and whether the ministry as one of the measures, regardless of what is not mentioned here, is planning to make a public call just to complete this list to say so. And I ask you once again to refer to questions from my colleagues as to how you see the promotion of these investments especially if we take into account the negative provision of the European Parliament to the Law on Strategic Investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39145	Replication response, Minister Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39146	Dear Mr. Representative, concerning the list of projects concerning the list of projects, was drawn up with the help of the designers of this strategy, so which through the system requested certain projects, and I have already stated that it was a critical mass of projects that were at some point, let's say the current one. Some are at the level, most of them clearly at the level of project ideas, and some are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they It is clear, and I have also said, that the issue of these projects will be greatly updated, especially by establishing a competitiveness cluster that will be exactly covered with destinations where it will be clear and then from these destinations, so the way we will manage it is about eight destinations throughout the Republic of Croatia and with the help of them will generate development. So, maps will be carried out, all key elements that affect the tourist product will be seen, which will later mean trading with that destination and everything else. It will be crucial for us to generate and connect these projects, you said well, their interconnection, their conditionality but also the key effects that these projects and their realization will give to a specific tourist product. The Strategic Investment Act, when it comes to the agenda in this House, you will also see that there are no major and basic obstacles, I repeat no article, no item is explicitly disputed, only, you know, that the European Parliament is also a political body, there are certain concerns in certain chapters, nothing more. And that law goes further into procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39147	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club and Independent Representative Furi Radina, colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39148	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The IDS welcomes the strategy because it provides first insight into the current state of Croatian tourism and gives us guidance on where we want to be in 2020. The strongest idols of Croatian tourism that attract visitors are the ones that we inherited from our ancestors and managed to preserve to this day, rich and preserved natural space and rich cultural historical heritage. To welcome the fact that the imperative resulting from the strategy is to preserve natural space, valorize rich cultural historical heritage and take into account that new construction is already happening in every step of the development of action and implementation plans, I will express myself to the first tourist areas in order to preserve the overall mood of development space from excessive construction. Given that the strategy determines the need to change the slogans that our country promotes in the world, we must take advantage of the preserved environment, and for this purpose as well as the fact that Croatia has the most immaterial heritage under the protection of UNESCO in Europe. In connection with changing slogans and extending the season here I would agree with my colleague Hrg who says that it is necessary to strongly valorise and support the development of continental tourism that has fantastic potentials all year round business due to natural resources, nature parks, due to present spas and terme, because of the opportunities provided by eco-agricultural and eco livestock. Given the success of thermal tourism in neighbouring countries, it is my suggestion that this type of tourism is also seen in the strategy. I also believe that it is necessary to invest it urgently in our most famous national parks such as Plitvice Lakes, Brijuni and Mljet because existing accommodation facilities are in very poor condition compared to the image they had in the past and it is our obligation to regain it. I'd like to talk about a few things based on which there are shortcomings in the strategy, but more in the context of the challenges and incentives ahead. The strategy shows that our weak points of general infrastructure are communal and traffic, lack of tourist attractions, poor tourist offer. As for municipal and transport infrastructure, accessibility is good. The traffic connection of all tourist destinations and Adriatic continental destinations is crucial if we want to increase tourism traffic at all seasons. Therefore, with regard to infrastructure such as those of the municipal but mostly those of road, rail, sea, river and air, it is also necessary to adopt a transport development strategy in parallel with this strategy. In accordance with it prepare projects, find partners, investors who are willing to invest in the same, and in particular I think of decades of neglected railway infrastructure in Istria. As for tourist attractions, entertainment parks in neighbouring countries since there are records of extremely good business results. Whether it's water parks, educational attractions or family-fun parks. For example, we are not in Europe, but in the world also prove that such an offer cannot be wrong, that their hotels and other accommodation facilities around them produce extremely good results, despite the crisis and despite the average cost of accommodation. Of course it is before us to find an appropriate model of development and support for such projects. As for the bad trade offer, we can note all who have at least once walked through any city along the Croatian coast, in which are historic centres, I will allow myself to show myself ardently wrinkled with the product of questionable aesthetics, quality and implementation. Due to the great volume of such an offer, those who are trying to offer indigenous and unique products do not reach any expression at all, therefore, other than the education of people about the fact that the commercial offer also affects the creation of the image of a destination, which requires a certain time the first step that could work already this season is a major involvement of inspection services that will analyse what and how it is sold along our coast, both for us and for our visitors. At the same time, I believe it would be worth considering and changing the legislative framework in the sense that cities and municipalities are given much more power to decide what and how they can sell especially in the old town's cores. In this sense we also have the support of Croatian associations of historical cities that gathers the most beautiful cities of Croatia. Croatia has a number of comparative advantages, a country with only a thousand islands, and given the trend in the growth of nautical tourism that continuously records high growth rates, there should be incentive measures to build new and increase the quality of existing marinas and ports. It would be desirable to establish a co-ordinated state-level action together in the co-ordination of local self-government units with potential investors so that the world's profitable tourism vision is realised with us, e.g. By setting out the book of projects already provided for in the spatial-planning documentation of cities and municipalities, by co-financing the necessary documentation and the like. Of course, we must concentrate strongly on the development of health tourism because this could stop the trend of evicting highly educated experts in whom public money has been invested through their education. Health tourism today is lacking, and so the supply and service needs also include quality jobs, jobs that make good incomes, which brings good consumption, and therefore I hold that we must especially support it. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia is precisely due to its weak industrialisation, but on the other hand, because of its natural resources, there is a great possibility of developing eco tourism that we must encourage, especially because of useful integration with eco-agricultural and eco- herding. Greater representation of domestic products, agricultural and food products would create and promote the culinary brand and thus the overall level of quality and competitiveness on the world tourism market. Through the strategy there is also a test of state property which some colleagues and colleagues spoke of. It is necessary to implement the provisions of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land as soon as possible, unevaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation and to charge from tourist companies the use of state land. I believe that after two decades we would no longer be able to afford that only one economic branch in Croatia can use state land for free, if we stick to that principle then we must also allow our farmers to use agricultural land for free. Except that the state will show its full ability to manage its own assets, this strategy can experience what I believe, my success and what I do not expect to defeat administratively on the activation of state tourist property and potentially so in the first row of abandoned military property. The state and competent ministries here must give a good example to other stakeholders of Croatian tourism, the government must set a concrete deadline within which studies, i.e. action plans and define clear models of asset allocation. Given the poor state of state finances, I believe that it is not necessary to consider priorities for the sale of the same, but that we must invest energy first and foremost with the possibility of concession. What most countries in the world do, the right to build or model a public private partnership. I would refer to the shortcomings and question points in this strategy. The tourism development strategy we are looking at has dealt with this stronger economic aspect of tourism development and less the ecological and particularly sociocultural aspect of development. The impact proposed on the population, demographics, employment and the impact on natural resources, which are our greatest comparative advantages in the strategy, through action plans needs to be seen more strongly. In addition to the above, the problem of hiring foreigners in tourism companies that do not experience the destination in which they operate and work should be added. The very important factor in creating quality tourism in the destination makes its local population because of its unity with the destination from which the local population is encouraged is the best promoter and best guardian of the quality development of the destination. Tourism is a service activity in which man's basic success factor. The man who creates and the man who provides emotions, and therefore I believe that in the strategy, this problem should be spoken of. And as a conclusion, IDS supports the adoption and adoption of tourism development strategies because of two basic settings. Tourists today are looking for a more content holiday that can be achieved at any time of the year, not just two, three months of tourist peaks. Tourism is seen in Croatia as a sector of significant potential which is still unfortunately not largely realised and for which there is still plenty of room for work in Croatia. Of course, there are many ways to improve the tourism overall offer, but in order to do something about it, it is necessary to provide concrete and support and support. The strategy is exactly what it aims to do, and that is why it is on behalf of the IDS and I welcome and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39149	Thank you very much. My colleague Branko Vuksic just a moment to solve the replica, so I'll give you my word. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Sponza, thank you for your support in this part of the development of continental tourism, but that's not why I answered. You also mentioned the possibilities and potentials of thermal tourism and many other species and I would just point out that perhaps you missed it, so I would like to complement you out loud in fact in this part. Religious tourism is a huge potential especially for the national shrine Marija Bistrica needs to find its place in the strategy. It must be mentioned because it simply has great potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39151	Replication response, Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39152	Dear counterpart Hrg, there are many other aspects of tourism that are not used enough, for example. One can also be the kind of retirement tourism. The world's population is getting older and older. We can also concentrate on that part to determine settlements in the areas of cities and municipalities put into that function where the rich inhabitants of the planet Earth will also be to come to use and be here in Croatia for reasons that we have only not good natural conditions. We have phenomenal and climate conditions and therefore we should think about not talking about cultural tourism, as you said about religious tourism and congress tourism, which is actually only at the beginning but I didn't want to touch all those areas because it has a lot of areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39153	Thank you. Here's Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39154	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament outside in SV square. Mark is being protested by Ina workers. As usual, we always act here as courtesans and as if we're not concerned with all this together. They have legitimate demands, requests for protection of national interests. I am looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Labourists in order to consult ask to speak to us if it is possible for Mr. Vrdoljak to see what is done about the protection of workers in Ina. You know the restructure announcements are going back to the workers' headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39155	Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39156	Here's for the same reason we're looking for a ten-minute break. Minister Vrdoljak is in America, so he won't be able to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39157	I'm setting a break to 12.11 minutes. It's 11:00.59. And notice that a session of the Committee on Space Planning and Construction is cancelled, which was called today at 13:30 p.m. We're continuing the debate. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, on behalf of the HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39159	Now move on to maybe a brighter subject. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with assistants, associates. So here I'm going to start this story with that I'm going to say right now that it's good that we have a strategy, which has finally been done, but I think the strategy as a strategy that, no matter what it's not a law that goes into two, three readings, or it's going to be adopted by an emergency procedure, since for a long time there has been no Tourism Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia, I think that this should still be one of the readings for you as a minister, but that the Ministry of Tourism itself would accept and certain proposals that I don't doubt were there and that there will be, precisely, out of the desire to improve tourism that is one of the straws of salvation for this country, and also for those people outside. So here I will start with maybe something that will not sound so positive at the moment, which is myths and fairy tales of Croatian tourism because tourism in Croatia is considered a strategic branch of the economy, all Croatian governments love to boast about the good results of tourist seasons, and according to the statistics of the World Tourism Organisation, given the number of arrivals of tourists in 2011 Croatia is 14. of European countries. And the countries that recorded better results in 2011 are France, Spain, Italy, Turkey, Great Britain, Germany, Austria, Russia, Ukraine, Greece, Poland, the Netherlands, Hungary only then Croatia. It is interesting to note that during 2011 Hungary was able to reach Croatia by the number of tourist visits. No matter what the Adriatic Sea is, it has the Pannonian Sea – Balaton, but it has managed to reach Croatia. Maybe thanks to Formula 1, but I wouldn't say that's the only reason Hungary is ahead of Croatia. In 2011, Croatia was 16 per tourist income. Tourism in gross national income participates with 8 to 10% but it is touristic, so 10% but tourism is often a driver and savior of the Croatian economy, and investment in Croatian tourism is rare, and by some estimates 80 to 90% of the existing hotels were built even in the time of the Croatian people's dungeon of the Socialist Federation Yugoslavia. And Croatia has decided to invest in certain capacities that have been used only a few months during the year instead of building and improving tourist capacities and enriching the tourist offer. It sounds amazing that even after 20 years, Croatia has still failed to achieve some tourist results from the former state. Back in '87. Croatia recorded 68 million 160,000 overnight stays, and in 2010 and '11 respectively. Had 56.5 million overnight stays, etc. etc. Now we have the latest indicators, so I took this year on purpose. 15.3. these are the data I've been reading right now. It is a source of the Istrian County Tourism Management Department. So, I did my best to see if someone asked me where you'd ask Vinkovic about tourism, talk about tourism, so I told him I was the mayor for 12 years, that I had one of the biggest events in Croatia, so I understand myself a little bit better in tourism than my colleague, and I saw it yesterday understand Croatian laws and justice. So, 15.3. In 2013, the World Economic Forum published a report on the competitiveness of tourism in the world. Croatia is 35th in 140 countries, which is not so bad a result, and only in Europe is 23. So two or three years ago she was 14, and now she's 23. The number of overnight stays has increased, some revenue has increased, but many countries in Europe, I am not only talking about the EU but also the environment that someone likes to say in the region have gone ahead of Croatia. And that is why I claim that this strategy is a good thing, but a strategy that is not a holy letter and a strategy that can be improved and upgraded in any case. And I'm going to say a few things that bother me in this strategy. It's a list of all these projects. I am responsibly saying that no good classification has been made, that not all units of local self-government have been reviewed, because here it may be that the tourist communities of the county are consulted, but be assured that the tourist communities of the cities, the municipalities, the local self-government units themselves have not been consulted, that there has been no public call and that in any case there are still a number of projects that should be incorporated into this strategy. I personally resent, and I have seen the latest video of the Croatian tourist community that should be focused on the development of tourism very few continents are in the video. I am aware that tourism on the Adriatic at this time represents I would say even 99% of Croatian tourism. But in any case, there is no need to ignore the continental tourism of the Republic of Croatia so that indeed those who come to Croatia would not think they were coming to that water world of Kevin Costner, because the continent of Croatia and continental Croatia have a great deal to offer in the tourist offer and offer to all who come to Croatia from religious tourism, and that is where I have to mention the Đakovak cathedral and even the concatedrale in Osijek. I also have to mention all the shrines across the continent. It's not just Maria Bistrica, it's Aljmash, Dragutin, so we also have the sanctuary of the Mother of God at the mouth of the Orjava with the Sava church of the 9th century stone. There is sports tourism, hunting, fishing, exceptional gastro offer of the continent because almost every region of Croatia has its own special gastronomy. Here's culture, there's tradition. I am sorry, here yesterday we had the first reading of the foundation "Croatia House", but there is nowhere in the strategy of tourism exactly and this Croatian house that should have served as a promotion of culture in the world. There are events that are most precisely in this continental part of Croatia and that have long crossed Croatia's borders, I would say some of them are world-renowned. From the Đakovite alliances, Sinjska alka, Vinkovsky autumns. Here I am watching Ivić, the Valpovac Summer is not so familiar but in any case it represents one event that is important for that Valpovian region. And there, besides local self-government, I think it's a good thing that here, from last year, the Ministry of Tourism has just been involved in the development of these events, and I believe that this and these and the coming years will be the same. And I could count down more things. Not to forget the geothermal sources. The possibilities of these new exploitations of these geothermal sources at Slatina are also known, putting into operation Bizoba spas. Also placed in the position of Đakova Breznica which was there during the privatisation was a well known spa but by privatising the day into certain wrong hands and you had the opportunity to see what happened when the home closed, and you had a B-class hotel and a well known spa that even Franjo Josip came to. And you have the possibility, especially in Slavonia, not once, but you have, for example. in Djakov, certain buildings that are also related to Turkish conquests that can also be put into office. I'm not just thinking about these Turkish soap operas right now. But in any case, I believe that all these positive elements of the continent can be put into operation. I will also say here about several problems that are related to the development of tourism at all. It is precisely the possibility of these I would say to the tourist communities in the continental part of Croatia who have far less income from the tourist communities in this Adriatic, coastal part of Croatia because it is simply not thanks to the lack of capacity, accommodation capacity because I believe that they are extremely small in the continental part of Croatia compared to the Adriatic but also because of the decline in income, not only in terms of bankruptcy, which at this moment I say screams across or pre-taste deals across the country, but simply because of the reduction of income and membership and the tourist community are very difficult to survive and without the help of units of local self-government which are also in a difficult state, they are not possible but also here and without the help of the ministry since we appear in a series of competitions from those mobile applications,... signalling etc. they are not able to make a single ordinary tourist brochure themselves. And that's the fact that this ministry needs to be recognized as well. The second question if we really want to go into one whole investment development, and I believe that even this amount is 14.3 billion euros by 2020. Because many countries, because if Moses were a Croat, here I will say so then God would show him the way to Croatia he would not show him to Israel because this is a promised land with all his wealth, with all his people, with his tradition, with his culture, etc. But one of the big problems if we want these investments is exactly the rapids of the former government, but also of the current ones. Because you don't solve the basic question, the issue of ownership. Many units of local self-government have put a specific agricultural land in particular interest for the local self-government unit because they have just wanted to spread even tourism content. This has the city of Djakovo in its spatial plan, but since 2006 you have no answer and you have no contract to move this land into the property of the city. Even though the construction zone was declared and everything else. And finally, I want to mention that famous thing, that's that joint of green and blue Croatia. And that's why I see the chance and that this amount is extremely small. Because if we combine green and blue Croatia and if tourists in the Adriatic eat and products from Slavonia, then this budget, or the result of tourism, can be greater than these 13 or 14 billion. But as long as they bring in even though I appreciate such tourism and appreciate the VAT reduction, but as long as they bring in cans, then we won't achieve this result.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39160	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39161	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Vinkovic. I'd like to agree with you and actually join your position that as far as this strategy is concerned, it's actually a very solid document. And maybe, I think it's really unlike some of the other strategies that we've been getting this really is one pretty, pretty solid document. And what you may also have mentioned is not good in that document in addition to the list of these projects which may not even be a place in the strategy to list projects. There are documents that will continue the strategy because there really is a whole series of projects that we can consider to be valuables that are not listed in these contributions, so it gets the impression that maybe a little selective has joined some priorities. Perhaps it would be happier if he did not already have this contribution to become part of some operating documents of a master plan or something that follows the strategy. The strategy is only a basic document. And when you talked about how the horror of this tourism is actually happening in Adriatic and coastal Croatia, it's not just that, the problem is that 90 and something of this entire tourism is happening on those first ones for the 500 meters from the sea. So it doesn't even take place in the coastal area, either in the Adriatic Croatia, but in the coastal zone, 500 meters away, and it ends there. Therefore, neither the coastal or Adriatic Croatia, i.e. Dalmatia 500 metres or a kilometer away from the sea, actually participate in this tourist product to that extent. I think that, in fact, it should be strategically defined and that this coastal Croatia and that this Dalmatia and a little further away from that must actually take part in this tourist production. And of course the second aspect of this continental tourism, which I also believe should put an emphasis on a little more perhaps in the strategy, and later in the operational programmes that will come out of the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39162	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39163	Well, that's right, this fellow Djurovic, but here I am going to finish that story, I didn't mean to. Here, for example. in Slavonia you have very little income, not because tourists do not come, but you simply do not have so many accommodation facilities, not so many hotels, nor do you have a fiscal opportunity to develop this tourism. Here we were talking last year, me and my colleague Izakovic about it, for example. that even the Djakovi bonds must make a certain step, and I claim that step is possible and that it would be a project of bonds throughout the year. Well, if you remember, there'd be those samba dancers from Brazil, etc. And the series, this year, they're coming to Maurie, but anyway, that's why money's needed. There are fewer and fewer sponsors today, thanks to other conditions, the situation in the economy. And what we can do here in Croatia, finally connect this Slavonia and the Adriatic, and connect even the backdrop of Dalmatia with the Adriatic. Because I would be most fortunate to have a Czech or Slovak woman, who are always welcome guests, and that instead of saying it, instead of being conservative, they eat this prosciutto, Slavonic ham, the Slavonic tower that we still have to work to make it brand, to become indigenous, as it is Baranja, and if there were no big corporations there wouldn't even be a baranic one of its own protections, etc. etc. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39164	Thank you very much. If you do not know the letters, do not use any other expressions. Branko Vuksic, replica. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39165	You told your colleague Vinkovic in your discussion that you were watching the Croatian Tourist Board video and that there is very little continental Croatia in that video, which is certainly a mistake. From some data to suggest that Zagreb is actually the fastest growing tourist destination in Croatia. I fully agree that it is necessary to connect the tourist capacities of the Adriatic and so on. Green Croatia, because this is the wealth of Croatia and the possibility of tourism development by 2020, what is proposed, these 14 billion euros and something billion euros can only be made, will not bring the Adriatic, but needs continental Croatia. However, I know the problems, there is one big problem that is a little debated, which is congress tourism. For example, in the City of Zagreb there is no convention centre that could host several thousand people or several hundred people who would have all the facilities in one congress centre, but such a congress centre is not in Croatia, there is almost nowhere, if there are these improvisations are not congress centres. The city of Zagreb should also think in the tourist offer, so we Labourists proposed a movie town on Velesaj which is in increasing losses and which no longer has its purpose, film town and entertainment center on Velesaj. And the tourist community, and the Ministry of Tourism must do everything to make this very continental part of Međimurje to Ilock, Slavonia, Gorski Kotar all this which is not the sea, to offer along the Adriatic Sea and in fact to make it a unique offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39166	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39167	So that's right, so the continent has the same as the Adriatic, has its advantages first and foremost, normally I've been talking about shortcomings and wanting to just encourage the completion of this strategy. And it wasn't my intention to insult people who came to the Adriatic, so they obviously have to go, not go to restaurants, go to certain malls, bring with them, etc. But we have to all together, so it's not just this 10% VAT reduction of the only measure. So, the measure is non-importable, especially sometimes garbage, and not allow domestic production, domestic products, and here I especially think of Slavonia and Baranja, I mean the continent, just coming and the possibility of coming to all these hotels, camps, accommodation facilities, restaurants, accommodation facilities, etc. There's that basic problem. To this day, this is the topic and the thesis that has been dragging since I remember that I could understand something on television, even in that black white when there were then tourist shows, contributions from tourism, that to this day green and blue Croatia is not connected. And I think that's one of the basic problems. In any case, we have opportunities and religious tourism but here I will mention that we have the opportunity to create a tourism that would first and foremost be instructive and related to the Homeland War of Vukovar, Slavonia, first lines of the battlefield, Dalmatia, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39168	Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39169	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you looked back on the list of project ideas that would be good to implement in the next period, and you say there are some projects missing. However, there are projects that are here, which have already been implemented. The list of projects includes Sibenik fun educational park Faustu Vrančić. Namely, the mention of Faust Vrančić's park on the island of Prvic opened last year in September. Possible because the entire park and construction is worth 11 million kunas, for which the Eu has allocated a million euros and aided and the Ministry of the Sea, earlier the Government of the Islands and the Ministry of Regional Development, has singled out only 35,000 kunas. So I don't know why you should try so hard to be on the list of these ideas if the Ministry of Tourism will help with all 35 thousand kunas and projects are worth 11 and more million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39170	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39171	Well, I wouldn't look at it that way, so how much will the tourism ministry give for a particular project because by adopting a particular tourism development strategy by 2020, that's why I'm asking for the completion of this. Before all this is about continental tourism and investment in tourism by 2020, 2030, 2040, we can't, I said this isn't the Holy Scriptures, but if you're not in a strategy, if you're not in a particular project then you're gone. That's when the D.A. won't even give you lip. That's why the question is how did this happen? I argue that very few units of local self-government have been consulted that they may even be consulted by guilty people who have neither political responsibility nor perhaps in some tourist communities and have no connection with tourism. But in any case, we should implement it again and complete the strategy and this. Because when I look at the video and there were so far oh, oh, oh, from when the heart says that, say Croatia never said SDP like a colleague here to say so took the video for granted. I really think that although I am as normal as any Croatian likes the Adriatic, Dalmatia, Istria and wherever I am lucky that more of our excursions are not going to Spain, Portugal, Tunisia or I don't know where they go to Prague, but that they are just coming here and learning history, Croatian history. Sometimes I think I live in a water world.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39172	Replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39173	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will agree with your last sentence, but also with what you said about continental tourism. The whole series of projects in this strategy is not seen and not written. However, I would like to warn of something that my colleague Bacic has already tried to warn in his replica, which is tourism in specific areas of the protection of protected natural heritage. In these tables, investment projects are not located or very few projects in this area, and the introduction to these strategies is said to be: "Specially concerned about the fact that eco tourism has been neglected even in most protected natural sites." Why would I mention that? Because some nature parks and I come from one of those areas that has one of the most beautiful nature parks Lonjsko polje. In its spatial plans, it particularly highlights a new type of tourism in nature parks or protected areas, which is camping. More and more young foreigners coming into these areas are looking for camps to be organised in these areas. The fact is that in such areas of protected natural heritage is lived by certain rules, so these camps can be only in certain areas but they are covered by these investment projects that you say are only seen by a single nature park, i.e. only a digging butt is listed there somewhere in the theme parks. That's why I'm sorry that a special place but really special place didn't have our national protected treasures because I think she would certainly have and they would have said some kind of hit if we except for what's going on with the sea and the Adriatic which is a hit destination for all foreigners hit destinations in continental Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39174	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39175	Well, I haven't been able to mention it since I couldn't, 15 minutes isn't enough for me to talk about Djakov, I didn't even mention a state ergel in Đakov, the Lipicans, I didn't even mention Kopački butt, Eko village, Karanac, Gastro offer, rural tourism. So that's, that's all the continent offers and I think that first of all so at least here's one, another new strategy should be focused on the development of continental tourism. There is the continental part of Istria, etc. which is extremely beautiful. This is what can start Croatia and bring new employment and new jobs. With all of us here to be determined that indeed those who go to season work during the tourist season at the end of the work are not spent, so often they do not get enough for often, if there are such, above all, situations that the employer does not pay them and not pay them for a particular job. But here is the possibility of developing tourism and health tourism. Thus, several private clinics in the EU have been examined where 10 of the most wanted aesthetic treatments are compared with prices in our polyclinic, aesthetic surgery. For some price treatments in Croatia, up to 65% cheaper. Now that someone doesn't get me wrong, I'm gonna say I'm going to operate on my nose and then I'm gonna jump to Djakov and then I'm gonna go to Dubrovnik this afternoon. We also have a chance not to mention any other treatments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39176	Thank you. A clear Mesic replica. Please take care of the weather. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39177	That's not true. Therefore, in my question, I asked the Minister about these brownfield-greenfield investments that are being led and asked by which methodology this happened, and I think that part of the strategy as you should be complemented and should remain open. However, the success of this strategy, and you certainly thought that when you said connect green and blue Croatia, is not just decided by the Ministry of Tourism because how do we want to develop cultural events, concerts, events, while raising VAT to 25% for concert tickets and such things that bring together many young people who would like to come to the Osijek festivals and festivals in Djakova, etc. Because those tickets will be more expensive. How to connect Dalmatia and the Dalmatian hinterland when introducing tunnel charges in the Makarska hinterland of a newly built tunnel that had just this function to connect the hinterland and the coast, attract guests, in some ways open new tourist facilities in rural tourism in the hinterland unless other ministries are involved. We're all tourist promoters and you're a fellow tourist promoter or at least that's what you should be. All of us every employee, every RS official who visits any conference on any topic should have 10, 20 brochures in that language of the tourist community. I think that here today should be a representative of the tourist community, supplying us with this, and not that you have to write an application to give you promotional material if you happen to go to some conference about cultural heritage, so you want to bring along 10 brochures you have to write in writing or at least so it was... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39178	Thank you. Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39179	Well, I agree with you that full coordination and work of the government are needed, but so is the Parliament on at least some of the key issues that are important for this country and represent the country's strategic interest, these are agriculture, tourism, the economy should still have a consensus. And as for tourist promoters, be assured that I know how to do it. I invite you to look at the official website of the city of Djakova, wwwdjakovohr and see the music video "Djakovo, Đakovo Grada" among others, including the mayor but also all the tambourian compositions of the Đakova building starting with Slavonski lolas, Dukat etc. that I may not list them all now, so you shall see that it is a single video made at the highest level, where in the background, the images of the city and all that the city has. Look at that and you'll comment on it. Here I call upon the minister to look at it, it's much better than this video "Come to the Adriatic," look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39180	Giovanni Sponza replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39181	Here in its opening part of the address Mr Vinkovic you have listed several countries that are in front of Croatia in the field of tourism. I will agree with you that we should not close our eyes to the truth, but I would also say that on the other hand we must not be blind because Croatia has so many comparative advantages, which are not used enough. The debate so far shows and confirms that we are lacking in Croatia, and this is chronic strategic thinking, strategic documents, action-coordinated plans, concrete and enforceable measures. I would like to say that this document needs to be experienced and I personally experience it as a challenge that we unfortunately did not take advantage of since, in addition to agriculture and tourism, it is the area of strategic economic, national interest, I am specifically referring to the Agricultural Land Act and when we have not already used it, let this strategy be an incentive for us to create a positive energy that has not really contributed to Croatia's development so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39182	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39183	Well here are the mayors and what Croatia is like Europe, Europe region but the Croatian region is clearly better recognised and the problem in Croatia but also in Europe. I agree with you, this strategy is a challenge, and my debate is primarily aimed at improving the challenge and supplementing it with other challenges that Croatia and Croatian tourism need. And as far as this Agricultural Land Act is concerned, you know what's going on these days, that there's no so-called. the agricultural land agencies, that everything has been transferred to local self-government, that the prices where the tenders in the Ministry's drawers have now increased twice, that this will further destroy the OPGs, etc., and when I ask for a reply from the minister, then the director comes to me and quotes two articles of the law. So I'm telling the public that I can read, I learned that in elementary school, Anna and Ivo go to school, but that she gets to catch a job, ask the minister how to interpret the law and about agricultural land, and not only how to rewrite two articles and it probably turns out, she at least thinks she's smart, but apparently it'll cause a number of other unpleasant things and situations in Slavonia, but wherever these problems aren't solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39184	And we continue the debate. On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39185	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Minister Lorencin with his assistants, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that representatives and representatives of the Croatian Liberal Democrats Club will support this strategy proposal and I would like to join those who specifically highlighted the quality of the document proposed to the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to repeat one fact that I believe is extremely important, that this is one of the few strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, and the first definitely regarding the development of tourism, which comes to this House of Higher Education, which will be discussed and adopted by the Croatian Parliament because that way we will give the status and rank of the law. This will allow this strategy to be mandatory not only for the main holder, which is the Ministry of Tourism, but for all the resorts in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. All ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are tourism ministries, there are none that make decisions that are not directly or indirectly reflected in the possibility and conditions of tourism development. This document was produced in a specific way that should be praised and it is a product exclusively of Croatian mind. For the first time, the Institute of Tourism has joined the creation of a strategic document in a completely open, very transparent procedure and there is no comment that it has not participated in a public debate and that there has been no calls. The public debate lasted a very long time, and this is about each of the 13 chapters that are actually an integral part of this strategy. In fact, the document we received in the Assembly as a draft, or a proposal for a 10 and more strategy is actually smaller than the integral materials of this strategy that I repeat, which are composed of 13 different chapters. It is the best-quality analysis of the situation in Croatian tourism so far. It is one of the highest quality of this document because it is impossible to assess the possibilities of development, define sustainable goals and tactics of how to get to them without a firmly-based attitude about where we are and what circumstances we are now in after 20 years of experience branding Croatia under our own name and as an independent tourist destination. This strategy, as you can see from the number of representatives who have been reported to the debate, has raised great attention and this is precisely proof that it was to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament in order to allow key messages from this strategy, objectives and tasks of the actors who need to implement this strategy to reach as wide an audience as possible, to all those who are directly interested in the public, but also to all those who make decisions, so make up the political public who influence the development and the circumstances in which tourism develops. One of the things that this strategy foresees is the consolidation of the legal framework in which the activities of tourism, hospitality and all those activities that rely on tourism take place. It is obvious that the existing legal framework is not good enough and that it requires changes and additions, in particular some regulations whose dysfunction has so far been a major obstacle to the development of tourism. It has already been mentioned several times, so I will also apostrophe it is not about amendments to the Law as the measures of Action Plan 1c say here, but it is about a whole new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. So this is one of the most important legal documents that defines almost everything that happens in the coastal part of our country and whose solutions directly affect the quality of the events in that coastal belt. Let us not forget that there are more than 80% of all tourist facilities in that belt we call maritime goods today, or attractions that we brand as attractions of Croatian tourism, especially when we talk about who produces new value and tourist traffic. Furthermore, regardless of what changes this strategy is, in fact, the attitude towards tourism because it becomes a strategic national industry should be warned that the increase in the share of tourism in GDP is not good, we can be happy in the short term, we can be satisfied on this basis because one of the industries is well, flexiblely functioning on the market, creating new values and earning enough for the lives of a larger number of citizens. However, this is ultimately not good in the long run because we need to know that tourism is a very fragile, very sensitive industry that depends on a number of external circumstances where any disturbance in the region, security disturbance or something like that can have a fatal impact on trends in the industry. And so it's good that as much as we have strong tourism and as much as it grows, as much as it develops, and as much as it develops, the economy develops more and more strongly as a whole. This strategy is, among other things, a prerequisite for the successful withdrawal of funds from European funds. It is very important to know that we have become part of the EU internal market since 1 July this year. So, in some ways, Croatia as a destination ceases to be for all Europeans, i.e. EU citizens, a destination outside their own framework rather than becoming part of an integrated, internal market. It is very important that this strategy highlights quality management as one of the important elements. It is different, it added value that can make us more competitive compared to and in comparison with our competenceators. It is extremely important that this strategy underlines the importance and strategic commitment of education, to the continuous education of those who deal with tourism, to raise the level of quality of service. It is also extremely important that this strategy is for the first time clearly and unequivocally cataloging the deficits of our tourist infrastructure, which is clearly said to be that the existing high seasonality of Croatian tourism is conditioned by inadequate tourist infrastructure, inadequately developed inadequately and unsustainablely developed elements of tourist infrastructure, so it is already evident how many deficits in the capacities of congress tourism, hotel resorts that are able to work for 12 months a year. Also the port of nautical tourism, golf courses, entertainment and theme parks, eco and ethno villages as well as other facilities that should be built and for which conditions should be created in order to achieve both greenfield and brownfield investments. However, we need to know that in the existing spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia there are about 5 hundred and 50 tourist zones. Just a small part, a very small part of that space reserved for tourism development and activated in the last 10 years. Many units of local self-government have reserved a large space for something that is unable to develop. In fact, we have disabled real development because by too many tourist zones we have actually blocked the real development of tourism. I hope that the announced adoption of the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia as well as the limitation, the time limit on the importance of unused tourist zones will help to streamline this figure, concentrate on both capital and knowledge and then the quality of what will be built and created into a real, real and rational number of tourist zones. Because this strategy says we can't allow the bulkhead, we can't allow the concreteization, we can't allow the destruction of space. We must master space as true and good masters who will provide space for generations to come. We must not repeat the mistakes of our competitors like Spain never. But also, if it is already found that there are terrible deficits in certain content, infrastructure content without which there is no extension of the season, then a legitimate question arises how to use existing properties that are outside the function of former military facilities and, in that sense, the Tourism Committee has initiated very important changes. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the situation with former military facilities is catastrophic. The vast majority of all these properties that are currently not in function are not even legally resolved. The vast majority of these facilities, these properties, but over 40 million squares have so far been handed over by the Ministry of Defence to the management of the competent state authorities. It's still inscribed in grant books as a universal property. More than 6,000 return procedures are being conducted for re-use of space. No one's been solved yet. These are important problems that slow down the possibility of putting these properties into commercial, and in this particular case, the tourism purpose. However, we must make extreme efforts to put most of these zones already in place in spatial plans, which were reserved until yesterday for military needs to put a good part of it into function of economic development, which means wherever possible in the function of tourism development. Today, before the Government, there is a draft strategy for managing state property. It is those who called for a strategy, or reminded that without it there is no state property available, that the government is now criticising what it is even talking about. It is a document that is well-structured in a very good way about what Croatia will do with state property and how. This document is extremely important to say, it is a very responsible approach to the management of the area at the disposal of the state and puts first the right of construction and concessions. So, not disowning property, not long-term alienation, but the right to build. All those who want to invest in a serious business will always give priority to the right construction rather than the purchase of land. The other thing is who, for speculant reasons, wants to get to land. That strategy, according to her draft, will not allow such a thing. And that's good. The strategy also includes many facilities that are now in the tourist portfolio. This strategy also includes a lot of properties that are now in a fund we call former military property. It is therefore extremely important for this strategy to also be adopted as soon as possible so that proper long-term responsibility and sustainable access to the availability of state assets can be made. It is very important that this strategy indicates a major problem of the concentration of existing tourist content, as someone said along the coast line. It opens the story of redefining our relationship to the management of the tourist destination in fact a completely new chapter, a completely new future of tourism, which is the deviation of all tourist facilities as far away as possible from the coast line, which is already overloaded to prevent not only overload, traffic jams but also to create added value. Quality, among other things, is that Mr. Darko Lorencin is the current tourism minister, one of the people who was part of the team in Istria who implemented what we recognized today as a completely different approach to space management, the development of content within Istria. Today Istria looks completely different than it was 10 years ago. I'm sure that's what I'm sure my colleagues in Istria know, that they didn't make a lot of mistakes and that there were some mistakes, but that... Istria can serve everyone, and in particular Dalmatia to develop all those contents that are now not in the Dalmatian burning area, from Zrmanja to Konavla. It's a big one, it's a Millennium project. I hope that this formal initiative of marking two millenniums of Dalmatia will be a trigger, being a climb to remember how difficult the property-legal situation is at this hour, also the situation in the cataster and garnery. To remember how important it is to bring life back to those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39186	Please conclude your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39187	A large part of those areas were devastated in the war. And to finish, the management of tourist destinations as this strategy requires the reorganisation of the Croatian Tourist Board and redefine the role of tourist agencies. Action plans listed here are of great importance and That through action plans, you can replace what colleagues have noticed, and that is the lack of emphasis on the role of continental forms of tourism. [[Intruder Zgrebe: Thank you, you have replicas and you will continue.]] Once again, we will support this proposal strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39188	Thank you. Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39189	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Richembergh you said in your debate that the high share of GDP by tourism in the GDP of the state or budget is not good because there are risks. So I hope that these risks will somehow disappear with 1.07 and joining the EU, and then this document has a certain value, regardless of what we think here in HDZ is too optimistic in projections of the effects of this strategy or the desired effects of tourism over the next few years. Because if that were the case, then this document doesn't have any value either. Because if we're talking about 7 billion euros from tourism today, so that's about 8.5.9% of GDP shares, assuming that with 7 billion investment in investments, that with 14 billion projected revenue in 2020, we're finally going to admit that we're a state of tourism, which we're running away from for a period of time, even though we're clearly seeing in the budget that the third quarter is the most active part, let's say income and let's say activities in the Republic. That's when the highest incomes are collected, that's when it starts, that's when something happens. I think we must look for security in this entry into the EU and make it some stability, and then let this strategy be achieved as it writes probably would be desirable then, if we had more income than tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39190	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39191	I am afraid that we did not understand each other, so the strategy brings in me a very sustainable tactics of strategic measures how to achieve a significant increase in tourism revenues. And let's make it 14 billion at the end of this period. I would like that 14 billion to remain at the same level of share in GDP as it is now because it will mean that all other economic branches have come to life and have improved, that revenues in the manufacturing industry in all other services have gone far worse. That we have also revitalised Croatian agriculture, that we have revitalised and industrialised the sector that is now under the burden of crisis and recession. That's actually what this is about. We, in parallel with this strategy, must do everything we know, everything we can and benefit from EU membership and status, in fact, parts of the internal market for the revitalisation and improvement of all other sectors of the economy. That's actually what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39192	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39193	Thank you. Well, here you are, Mr. Beus, talking about the consolidation of the legal framework, the need for further and this strategy to be cited in the development principles of institutional deregulation. And as far as I'm concerned, I would very much welcome this notion of institutional deregulation and really simplifying procedures and procedures to facilitate investment, facilitate employment, facilitate the discharge of this tourist product in all its forms. But I'm afraid institutional deregulation can't be conducted in one sector separately. I think we're witnessing to a good degree institutional hyper-regulatory that's actually some sort of government decree. We cannot conduct institutional deregulation in the health sector and conduct hyper-regulatory in the area of industry or agriculture. Therefore, I think that the measures of systematic institutional deregulation should be implemented in all aspects of tourism as well. And when you talked about spatial plans there you would also agree with you, I think that this large number of municipalities that we have in Croatia, so some islands have 4 or 5 municipalities, and each of these municipalities wants their tourist settlement, so we got these 450 or 500 ideas about where all the various hotel settlements should emerge, which in no way has its own foothold in infrastructure, neither in municipal nor in construction. But it should also not be forgotten that there was responsibility for both the county and the state that accepted these spatial plans, hence, an unrealized picture, an image of something that was not feasible. And I think you should put that wheel back and actually re-realized in spatial plans really position those destinations that can really go, does it make any sense to go there to build hotel facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39194	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39195	Col. Djurovic, when it comes to the consolidation of the legal framework, does not mean, of course, only reduction, deregulation or reduction of the number of regulations and provisions. Here, above all, is the review of what is currently affecting the development or condition of the development of tourism, hospitality and all that is going on with it. The Law on Maritime good and seaports is already mentioned, there is a law that regulates the system of tourist communities, there is the Law on residence tax, there is also the Law on tourist land, there is a law we do not have, but we should have it because since 87 we have had it, it is the Law on organised holiday for children and young people, it is a whole series of other laws that touch the areas of hospitality and tourism. And that what concerns other branches of the economy like the Strategic Investment Act, we don't even talk. It may be tourism that is able to show amongst the first and most intensely how such a law can benefit the national economy. And maybe projects in tourism will just be the most visible and best evidence that such a law should be passed, but it will certainly reflect on all other possible investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39196	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39197	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus here you mentioned and you said, you praised this strategy as a single document on which now here you will be able to redeploy military facilities which really in the Republic of Croatia have many, have been devastated, emboldened the environment, are messy, and so far have not been brought into office. And I would say not only military facilities, but many objects that are property of legal persons in the area of the former republics of Yugoslavia. So, the property really in the good part of the coastal area as a former resort stands also devastated, it is not known who manages it, one of them is also registered to the Republic of Croatia, nothing happens because somewhere in 2002 a moratorium was placed at that disposal, waiting for it to be settled by a concession agreement, although quite incorrectly, this issue is not a succession issue but a property issue rather than a succession of assets of the former Yugoslav states. But that's one question. And the second question is, since, in addition to this strategy, the second is the perspective for investment projects, so the browfield projects have detailed military facilities but we do not see the criteria by which they are chosen, for example, I am personally in the field of Zadar, and mostly small islands in Zadar, I know more military objects that are not mentioned here, and it would be precious to bring them to purpose and function, and as well as objects from this other category that I mentioned to you, and which are probably not here, there are some criteria but we don't know them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39198	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39199	My colleague, Lovrin, since the committee that I led to is a comprehensive thematic debate on this particular issue, I can give you further information on what was being led by the ministry. In fact, the Ministry of Defence has made a very good analysis of the total number of objects that have been dedicated so far and which can be handed over in a very soon time, unfortunately very few that can be put into office in relatively short time. It's precisely because of the problem of unresolved property-legal relations and some other circumstances that affect it. The fact is, therefore, that this problem should be devoted to the highest possible level of attention. It's not just a question of AUDIA, it's not just a question of DUDIA, it's not just a question of the Ministry of Defence, it's not just a question of the Ministry of Tourism, it's a matter of this strategic document that's in front of the government today, and soon before we do. This is therefore a whole series of obligations to be made as joint obligations among the resolution bodies that will have the highest possible level of authority to finally resolve this Gordian node. The very fact that none of the 6,000 return requests have been resolved so far, says that the Ministry of Justice can, in that sense, help to get rid of these things and finally start to solve it. Because this is how we run this 2002 moratorium, so we're going to run some kind of red tape that doesn't solve what she's never been ordered to do. Obviously, the thing is that all the lights need to be turned on and all the power needed to be concentrated so that these problems can begin to be solved. Politics is there, the government is there to cut into questionable situations, it is their, Government's responsibility and there is no doubt there, the government must have the strength to say so we think it should be and come before Parliament and say this is how these problems should be formulated and possible solutions in this strategy. That's what we expect before summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39200	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Beus, with everything that you're saying in a large part, I can agree, but I cannot agree in one general position that, I don't know, military facilities, former military facilities aren't re-purposed for some other purpose because in my town, my little Crosses is a completely different situation. But we have another problem, we have no problem with property legal relations, we have no problem solving these issues, we have solved it all. We have a problem with state institutions blocking the system. And now I'm glad you're talking here in the conference room about this problem because for a year and a few days, for a year and a half, we haven't been able to reach anyone in the audience. We have a program to build a pilgrim church, for pilgrim tourism, since we are the city of St. Mark the Christian. We have a program to solve the winery, so an economic project also happens in a military facility. We don't have an answer, no one answers those questions. So where we can solve there is the silence of the administration of the state. And on the other hand, we're talking here in the government's assembly, we hear that these problems are not being solved, that the military aren't being re-scheduled, that the projects are standing. So, you said right now in the end, it's the government that has to deal with it. So all the laws that are said to block the system are to bring into this assembly the people of God. So let's figure out what the laws are, let's change that, and let's start doing something. We're just going around in circles, telling ourselves that we have laws that aren't enforceable, and people dearly we're passing those laws, so let's change them quickly. And where people want to do it, where they can do it, let's do it and give them a chance and a chance. We even wanted to buy a former military property from the state won't sell at least we've got evaluations of the court's witches.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39202	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39203	If memory serves me well, the process of transferring ownership or giving military objects that no longer have military purpose or perspective began by my colleague, Jozo Radoš, while the defence minister in 2002, 2001. To this day, 12 years after that, the basics of the process have not been resolved in the meantime. So these problems you're talking about, that's a shame. But you know what else exists, so you're looking for something that should be owned by the town of Križevci, and imagine that the organizer of the Terranao festival in Sibenik is asking you only for the right to use, a temporary right to use two or three weeks of military facility, a former military facility that no longer works and that for a year and a half waiting to be told whether or not you can. These are examples that say that the whole system in which there are many grandmothers, and the kilos are children, has not worked full for 13 years, and now it is time to finally get rid of it and I sincerely hope that this government will take on the burden of making such a decision and that it will finally put into operation those millions and millions of squares that not only fail but which have produced a huge loss in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39204	Giovanni Sponza, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39205	I'd like to say the following, how Mr. Beus made it very clear that two things are important to me. First, that tourism is a fragile and sensitive activity in which I fully agree with it and that the implementation of this strategy depends not only on the Minister and his associates, nor on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor on us representatives in this Croatian Assembly, but on all factors that have connections whether direct or indirect with tourism. The strategy itself has made it very clear that one of the problems is the problem of poor transport infrastructure. Last week, I was at a meeting organised in Istria, specifically in Pazin, talking about poor rail infrastructure, which is not a problem from today, but has been neglected for decades and should not be seen exclusively in the context of the transport of goods, but should be seen in co-operation for the needs and in favour of tourism, but also in the field and in the field of ecology. So I would take this opportunity and say I should appeal to those who are in charge in addition to this strategy to make an appeal for the need to develop a strategy for overall traffic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39206	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39207	Comrade Sponzo, thank you for these observations. It is definitely clear that when a strategy like this comes to Parliament and such a quality and broad debate is opened, then it starts to see from the plane how much strategic approach we actually have in the development of Croatia is generally lacking, not only a transport development strategy but also a lot of other things. For example. how it is possible to enter the process of selling or concessioning the Zagreb airport without having a national strategy for the development of air traffic. It was done by the past government, where we don't even know what the fate of other airports in Croatia will be when the concessioning of this one happens. Is that normal, is it good, is that a good approach? Obviously not. That is why it is necessary to finally and make this a cause and let tomorrow the one who comes to the governance strategy of state property be the reason that from today on we do nothing, without knowing where we want to come and that we have not written it somewhere in a strategic document that will be made public and available to everyone. So thank you for these facilities, Comrade Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39208	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, spoke about tourism and the development of Dalmatia's mountain tourism. I would agree with you. Of course, these natural resources are ecological areas, we call them oases of peace and rest, they certainly have their chance in the Republic of Croatia, and that is also to the knowledge of the new Minister, Mr. Lorencin, who will certainly take special care of one of these novels in particular of the Dalmatian Zagora as an undiscovered area. And with that, you may be asked to influence your colleague, Hajdas Doncic, in any case, not to introduce a tunnel for the St. Elijah, because we were about an hour, an hour and a half from the most beautiful Riviera in the world of the Makarska Riviera, and now we're only going to be four minutes through this tunnel. Certainly the development of tourism in Dalmatinska Zagora is a perspective, which must be a special task for you too, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39210	Thank you, too. Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39211	You heard for sure about an idea that says this if Istria could become a Croatian Tuscany then the Dalmatian Zagora could become a Croatian Provence. There is no better, more long-term sustainable way to develop space from Zrmanja to Konaval than to use all the potentials that can be used where they are and developed on the basis of autochthonog not exactly in Dalmatia. So the cultivation of medicinal, medical and spice plants, the cultivation of indigenous species of the entire diapazone offered by Dalmatian gastro-ethnology. Then the development of traditional crafts, the resuscitation of stone villages in Dalmatia Zagora, the re-valorisation of natural phenomena that we have, as well as the presentation of traditional culture that is extremely important in Dalmatia Zagora. These are elements that can help us to create added value tomorrow so that all those who come into the coastal zone into large tourist conglomerates, have big hotels every day where to go, what to see and what to enjoy. And that means detaching these programs from the coast line where life should be restored. I am sure that by solving the catastra, the engagement of credit good development credit funds, but also by putting the heads together with the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, and all those that the Dalmatian counties lead together with the tourist community, together with the Ministry of Tourism, we can perform miracles in ten years. Let Istria be our cause and set an example for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39212	God gives you life. New replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39213	I'm thanking you. I will only remember the part where you spoke to your colleague Beus about finally having a strategy to give a quality debate on this strategy, of course, to open up a number of other issues. It is good that this strategy speaks here today in this assembly. It is a good thing that this was talked about and not the Committee on Tourism. It would be good if we could not already correct the amendments to certain things this strategy to find an opportunity on the Committee on Tourism to discuss at least the action plans that will follow and also at certain points of control when monitoring the implementation of the strategy and eventually detecting problems and thoughts, but should do so. You said that valorisation of the existing is very important so that the strategy could be set properly. In the marketing section, I don't think it's done well enough, I personally think it is, and I don't think it's well done to analyse the Croatian tourist community. I think I'll repeat once again I think the President of the Tourist Board should be here today, I know the Ministers, you represent now the Ministry has nothing to do but the tourist community as operational. I know that the president of the tourist community, but there were supposed to be people from the tourist community in the operational work, so in this sense a series of problems will open up to us in that part, and we also expect that the Croatian Tourist Board report either on the board or in this assembly, especially in the financial section, to see how much further debate can be given in this section, which is said in the analysis of the situation that the promotion of Croatian tourism is not optimised in relation to the invested resources. So maybe we shouldn't spread it further to the transport strategies and everything. When we see that we can also open up questions related to this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39214	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39215	Dear Mesic, very much appreciated by your constructive contribution not only to the work of the Tourism Committee but also to the debates here and you and other colleagues, I must say independently about which parties they come from. I'm proud to lead such a committee. It should be said that we have established such a partnership with the Ministry of Tourism that neither a competitor nor anyone who thinks otherwise than they, as a partner, and I am sure that they have accepted our idea that this strategy should come to the Croatian Assembly and that here it will be discussed that the smallest problem will be discussed and proposals for action plans. So maybe even suggest some that aren't included here and that will cover maybe some not sufficiently lit subsectors in tourism. The second in terms of marketing and the minister said you may not have heard, the first document to go behind this, which will likely see the public bright before the day of Croatian tourism in the autumn. It'll be a strategic marketing plan. Without this we cannot continue, without it we cannot discuss at all how to make a quality distribution or to dispose of HTZ's resources and as far as your facility is concerned that we must discuss this report for the first time in history the report on the business of the Croatian Tourist Board is coming to the Croatian Parliament, 6 months ago it has already arrived. It's on the board, and we're gonna get a year. And we will have for the first time discussed how funds are spent primarily for tourism promotion and there is no reason nor doubt that the minister will support it as president of the tourist council as the most responsible person who manages this system. I therefore think that we are creating a very high-quality atmosphere of cooperation with those who are most invited to run this system and that we are here today showing a very high dose and the constructiveness of the best intentions to actually achieve the best possible results and optimal solutions in all of this that goes under the hat of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39216	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the turn of the HSU Club and the esteemed representative Zeljko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39217	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. HSU welcomes this strategy and we hope that other ministries will follow the example of tourism. By establishing a Croatian state, our tourism in the 20-year transition process carried a heavy burden and all the problems in which an economy with inefficient business structure faced the consequences of war and the wrong model of Croatian privatisation. Nevertheless, thanks to the interest of the foreign market, the attractiveness and natural beauty of our country, Croatian tourism has proved to be the most vital segment of our economy. All these years he has been one of the bright examples of success especially by the arrival of global recession and global disturbances. All this economic and political instability points to the necessity of reviewing the current model of tourism in the Republic of Croatia with a view to setting new reasonable routes as well as the necessary strategies for the period until 2020. And now the proposal for this strategy is ahead of us and represents one framework that should enable us to act first for all holders and measures of tourism policy. Second, the key towards further development of tourism as a major prerequisite for the interests of domestic and foreign investors and third, the development investment process and the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. This strategy is a document that defines Croatia's tourism future and represents a guideline for the strong development of tourism for all Croatian areas in the next 8 years. Croatia is a country that has so far attracted tourists to the beauty of its natural attractions, one of the most beautiful seas, a multitude of islands and a divorced coast, a large number of national parks, lakes and forests on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. In addition to these rare natural beauty, Croatia has something else that tourists love, the wealth of cultural and historical heritage, a large number of cultural goods under the protection of UNESCO. For all of this, Croatia collects around 7 billion euros in tourism revenues annually. With these advantages, we are extremely poor in new business-tourism attractions. We do not have modernly equipped congress centres, entertainment parks, golf courses and other tourist offer facilities to extend the tourist season. To tourists with our beautiful sea and sun in just 3.4 months we must offer more content and extend the season maximum. The content at sea should provide tourists with full-year sports, mountain, spa and health tourism as well as better and stronger activation of continental space. With the hospitality of our people tourists praise our gastronomic offer not only on the coast but discover an increasing number of tourist oasis in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, mountain rural tourism is developing extremely slowly. The exception is the interior of Istria and something of eastern Slavonia. Undeveloped domestic demand and not a stimulating environment participates in total international travel with only 3%. In addition to the tourist events of the already famous Vinkovci fall, Đakovičke obligations and northwestern Croatia offers cultural historical tourist manifestations such as "What Our Old Ones ate" in Vrbovac, and "Treziana" in Bjelovar, Varazdinski "Spancir Fest", "Krisjevačka središce", Podravski motifi and Renaissance festival in Koprivnica and "Picokijada" in Đurđevec, which gathered a large number of tourists and domestic and foreign ones and should be encouraged more strongly. Continental tourism also needs capital investments using EU funds. It is necessary to open mountain centres, family rural economies, wine roads and basements, cycling trails and show tourists the animal and plant world, the wealth of rivers and lakes in the continental part of Croatia. We can read from the strategy that the main goal of the development of Croatian tourism by 2020 is to increase its attractiveness and competitiveness and enter top 20 destinations in the world. Investments envisioned by around 7 billion euros, improving the structure and quality of accommodation, and to that end, increasing the hotel's share from 13% to 18% and raising the quality of accommodation in camps and households. New employment of about 20,000 new jobs in tourism and tens of thousands in non-tourism activities. The increase in tourism consumption in 2011 made 60 million overnight stays, plan by 2015. 86 million overnights. The plan is to achieve around 14m euros in total annual revenues by 2020, although this seems impossible from this perspective, but it is not too unrealistic. The participation and placement of domestic products and services is very important in this achievement. Domestic healthy food in the tourist offer would partially solve major problems of Croatian agriculture, which today is severely ill in competition with non-quality food from imports. The green-blue ridge should be the right direction for future development of tourism as well as for our agriculture. If we want to extend the season, if we want to increase revenues from tourism, if we want to increase employment in tourism with the necessary investments, we need our dominant tourist product sun and sea to expand new content, not only to focus on a narrow coastal belt but to use all the potential potential in the territory of the entire Beautiful Ours In my opinion, perjanica of continental tourism should be one of the very promising activities in tourism, which is health tourism both on the coast and especially in the continental part of Croatia. In 2010, revenues from health tourism grew annually between 15% and 20%. Given the growing trend in ageing the population in both Croatia and Europe, as well as... according to the so-called Healthy life and health prevention are expected to be one of the main motives of future travel. In this sense, the success factors of the health tourism product relate primarily to the quality of specialised health centres and institutions, the quality of the accompanying tourist offer, especially known Croatian gastronomy. Examples of good health tourism offer have been made by our neighbours in Slovenia and Hungary, where pensioners from Austria and Germany come all year long to their spas and spas. The HSU Club will support the proposal for this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39218	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single replica of the respected representative, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've listed this all very nicely, and I agree with what you've said. There is only something I disagree with, namely you must be aware that you are an integral part of the ruling set and that it is not sufficiently declarative to say that you should support Picocijada and Tereziana and Renaissance festival and the Križevci Large Crescent, and that you simply have the obligation and burden to choose as a member of that furniture to really support it in order to be able to do so. For that, even at this point, we did not necessarily need a strategy like it necessarily needed as well as any other strategy. But another thing that moved me to come forward is your mention of the green-blue ridge. Well, people, let's not make a declaration about the green-and-blue ridge when we hit that green one, it's just a blue one, I hope we keep it safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39220	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39221	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the tourism ministry, colleagues and colleagues. There were actually no more significant links between my political work and this topic except that somewhere in the beginning when I was first elected to the Croatian Parliament then some colleagues in '95. I was offered to be a member of the Committee on Tourism, but for this debate, of course, I was not inspired by any of it, but by the proposed strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia by 2020, a proposal worth the attention, value and respect because it is a significant effort to develop the strengthening of tourism capacities in the Croatian tourism industry. And in this sense, as a proposal for a strategy, it is one way of understanding or viewing this type of tourism industry. Whether it is the only possible and whether it is the best possible in the long term, that is, of course, a significant question. So, if I were to talk about this strategy proposal, I would say that it is respectable, in terms of tourism development as a kind of industrial branch in the Republic of Croatia, and we certainly will not be against this proposal, but I will present some of my thoughts and thoughts on behalf of the club on this proposal that I think we should have a place. First, the proposal for a strategy makes it clear which direction and to what extent tourism will develop the most over the next 7 years. And according to the proposals for the construction of hotel facilities, according to the proposals for the construction of beds offers, it is seen in fact that tourism will primarily develop in the coastal and island areas of the Republic of Croatia, while the frozen coastal and the entire continent remains actually as the possible tourist future of the Republic of Croatia, as possible tourist potential of the Republic of Croatia, but not as a targeted component in this strategy. On the other hand, the strategy of the tourism industry according to this development is also clearly aimed at foreign tourists, not at domestic tourists. Obviously, it aims at a kind of European and non-European tourist clientele, but domestic guests and locals as it seems to me that this strategy is actually not a particularly targeted tourist clientele. It may be that it corresponds to the real economic condition of a Croatian citizen who has less and less money to be able to spend in a week off-site vacation. This may more and more correspond to the fact and state of the Croatian citizen that he will not have the opportunity from his 30 days to take 15 days to go somewhere on the board. But there is no doubt that this situation, which is probably so or if it isn't, will exist anymore, that such a situation poses an objective danger to the tourism future of the Republic of Croatia, that we are bound in this case to the circumstances of the economic situation in EU countries or countries outside the EU, and on the other hand there is no doubt that a good part of the tourist capacities at the time of the former state was filled in thanks to domestic guests from Croatia, domestic guests from the small region. It also seems to me that this carries a steady risk, brings a steady risk that it is actually provided to Croatia, that Croatia is transformed into a country of tourist service providers, and that its own citizens are unable to use almost none of these tourist facilities. This is what is for me as a socially sensitive man, it is for me as someone who otherwise understands the role of tourism in the development of Croatian society something that does not offer a long-term perspective for the development of tourism. And the other thing I'd like to say is, this was about that. Our concept of the tourism industry actually relies very little on other capacities that we can have or should have. In this strategy, there are very few words about what and what role Croatian agriculture should play in the development of Croatian tourism, which should be the role of Croatian agriculture in strengthening the tourism capacities of Croatian tourism and which should be the role of Croatian agriculture in strengthening total earnings, total profits from the tourism industry. I wish there was more to this strategy than there is. I come from the Zadar hinterland, and I know to what extent there was a connection between that part not to count Lika and Slavonia. There was a strong link between these potentials that were not enormous, but were potentials. Unfortunately, we do not see it here, and very often you can see that this is what makes the Istrian tourist offer, what makes it competitive. If the Istrian tourist offer was only reduced to the coastal zone then you know very well its possibilities would be decimated in terms of income, attractiveness and capacity. Why isn't it like that with Dalmatia? Why is Dalmatia not so targeted when it comes to the development of its tourist facilities? There are no less bad assumptions when it comes to some kind of historical heritage because it has historical and cultural monuments, there is nothing less to offer when it comes to natural heritage and natural beauty and natural attractions. But unfortunately, I don't know, maybe you left it for county travel plans. It may be that you see it better here than I see it, but it seems to me that there is nothing more natural than connecting Plitvices that someone rightly spoke of here, I don't know whether my colleague Mesic or my colleague Bačić was rightly saying that Central Dalmatia with Zadar and Sibenik connects to Plitvices practically all the way up to Slunj, practically to the waterfalls. There's nothing more natural about Una. And that is the deep ice that can make sense just as much as the deep interior of Istria makes sense to total Istrian tourism. And that means strengthening not only Croatia's tourist potential. This means actually strengthening Croatia's overall potential in the area. Otherwise, it will happen to us that this few people living outside that area will actually be evicted or will move towards the center, towards the cities, without saying that it enriches the diversity of the tourist offer. When it comes to continental tourism, only 5% of what we have is waste on continental tourism. There is no doubt that the area of Eastern Slavonia especially Baranja, Srijem has potentials far from being used. But for that, you should turn to the guest in the front row and first place. This should turn to people who are there and who can use it over the weekend or can use it in shorter periods of time and should create this type of culture of offer. Unfortunately, we don't do that. Chances will likely change, and communication across the border will also exist, and then cross-border tourism communication will be stronger in this regard. But we'd like it to change. Otherwise, I'm sure you wouldn't want to exist in a touristic way only Zagreb, Istria and some Dalmatia and Dubrovnik. But it is our condition, that we only have Zagreb, we have Istria and we have some Dalmatia and Dubrovnik. The rest is like terra incognito. That needs to be changed. But with this concept of the tourism industry, I'm afraid we won't. So, I would not like to advise you on what you do better than I do, but in those things where I think I have a responsibility and a club that I belong to when it comes to the wider interest of Croatia rather than just specifically targeting tourist profits, on what at this point may be profitable. I'd like to invite you to consider the possibility that this strategy might be upgraded and complemented by these components. Or you might want to underline more or more if it is already present inside this one. Now, colleagues and colleagues of the SDSS club will, in addition to these remarks, which are partly conceptual in nature, be partly a matter of distribution of tourist facilities, this means the question of respect for regional and regional tourism potentials, the SDSS Club will support this strategy proposal, but we invite you to consider how to actually target the concept of the tourism industry to be one common national social branch that will be linked to other branches. At least the ones we can develop right now. The agriculture and culture that I did not mention, unfortunately the few tourism potentials, whether it was national parks or historical cultural goods, is largely not included in the programme, is not. The good part of the fire and the Dalmatian hinterland are not incorporated into it. The mere circumstances and possible enthusiasm of people such as obtaining funds from EU pre-accession funds in the case of Han Maskovic in Vrana and people working in the ministry and in the local community did so. But other sites that represent unique and significant historical sites and extremely interesting tourist facilities unfortunately this does not happen. I would, in that sense, plead if we could strengthen those two components. In this way, we will make these increasingly populated areas, those areas which offer exceptional assumptions for the expansion of the diversity of the tourist offer and for the richness of the tourist offer get adequate status. Don't just forget the story. And finally, I understand that in the tourism industry as well as in air transport, as well as in aviation, English is a dominant language in communication, but when it comes to material for the Croatian Parliament, don't be angry but some terms should be translated even if they were not translated with two words such as those in English but translated with two sentences but they should be translated. Like the category of empty nestlers. That's what they exist for. As is the category dinx and for that there is a possible translation. I'm not here to tell you how to do this, but there are experts at both my university and other institutions who can help you in that matter. So since here in this House very often, unnecessary language discussions are being conducted, this is the one that makes sense, simply for reason of understanding. Most people do not know what dinx or know what empty nestlers is, and this can be translated very nicely into Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39222	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have three copies reported. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Branko Hrg and first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What you're saying here actually makes sense, and that's the way it should be. It's not clear why it's not like that at all. And I agree with that. But I don't agree with you in that part that food and agriculture production should be installed so little in this tourism development strategy because I think that food production and rural development, the preservation of rural areas deserves a special strategy that would then be put into place with this tourism development strategy. So I can't agree to put it here. It is absolutely necessary to put this on, but it is also necessary to make a separate strategy and debate on the development and rural areas and of course the production of food and agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39224	Thank you very much. A new replica or a reply to the replica? No, I don't. A new replica, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39225	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honor, I have listened carefully to your debate and I fully agree with everything you have said. Another small emphasis on the part where you mentioned 5% of continental tourism in the strategy, that only 5% is mentioned and that there should be more concern in the first place. Well, you mentioned East Slavonia. An example from our neighborhood where Mr. Pende knows it very well together only once worked on these solving problems. Unfortunately, it is still in the status that these Business Spa workers have not been paid three months. It's a '75 buffalo spa. the year the hotel exists, the healing hyperthermal water third in quality in Europe, we are entering the EU today, and as far as the country is now, not blaming any government or government, not going by the parties, has done bad to that end, primarily to Eastern Slavonia. So the Termia Hotel was built on 21 thousand squares and only 210 beds in that hotel. And 10 years later, the Ministry of Health builds a new facility, a separate Center for the Rehabilitation of the Patients of the Clinical Hospital Osijek right across from the Bizovaske Toplice 100 meters away two systems owned by state property unrelated to each other. Bizoba spas have healing water, and the hospital... so-called Part of the Clinical Hospital Osijek has ordinary water. Patients treated after strokes, rheumatotic diseases and similar to all of the qualities of this water, which is the third water in Europe, these patients of the Clinical Hospital Osijek cannot use and all is owned by the Republic of Croatia. This object collapses, except or nine times the sale was attempted, we worked together on these problems. Nothing has been done and it is precisely something that a jewel of continental tourism in eastern Slavonia where the state as a good master should find a solution primarily because of conservation and continental tourism because it is the only largest tourist facility in the area of Eastern Slavonia. Unfortunately, there is an example where the state could do more by me and I myself was part of that story where we simply built some unreasonable decisions of enormous objects, inert, that don't use anything today, unfortunately with very healing water and with the prospect of the future, but there we should do something all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39226	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Pupovac, I also agree in many ways in your presentation and despite many and frequent language discussions in this Croatian Assembly, I think that they should be led, should be repeated and absolutely agreed that the documents that come before the Croatian Parliament should be in Croatian, except for the necessary terms that do not exist in Croatian, and then must be translated and cannot be expressed in any way in Croatian words. Besides the words you mentioned here, we have some more, I'm thinking, let's say I don't know now, maybe it's common in tourism, but let's say cyclotourism, so I had to go for what it means, for example, so I found out it was cycling, etc. But let's just say in other areas the usual expressions, but for which many people don't know what it is. Let's say brownfield investment or project, get out now, ask the citizens if they know what it is, they won't know. And I don't understand why somewhere in this strategy it couldn't have been said that these are investments or reconstructions of existing objects, that it's understandable but here's the use of these terms greenfield, brownfield. The people in this area understandably, but ordinary citizens do not and do not know, and we have a way to express it in Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39228	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. ... I can't tell if you've picked up or not because I haven't seen you, but if you're going to replicate, you're going to replicate it, and you're going to beat it anyway. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39229	Thank you. Dear colleague Pupovac, here I am, and my colleagues and colleagues agree with a good part of what you said. I actually see the biggest problem of this strategy because it is not just the strategy of the tourism ministry. When you talk about tourism Podunnova and Baranja and the directions for cruises, the Danube route and the Ilock and the Ilok cellars and the Museum of Vuladol culture which should be almost opened, so on the many cultural and tourist potentials that exist, I do not think it should remain just at the Ministry of Tourism, as well as composing cultural heritage in the tourist offer must be part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. I'm glad you mentioned the project... and it's nice to hear it, but it's just as sad to hear that until today it's the only one left, that it's been prepared in 2011, that here it is now realised and that it's the only one left and that at the same time in the budget of the rest of the ministry you have provided only one million kuna for the documentation to prepare such projects for the European Union funds, and only... the project cost more than 2 million. There's a problem and I don't think the tourism ministry can handle it. Of course, the Zadar hinterland. From the monastery in Krka, Manastira, Aseria, Bribery, Skradin, everything else that the region carries in this sense, the design of itineraries, but of course they must carry in part other ministries, and in part local communities. And what I wanted to say was a proposal to say so by domestic guests, foreign guests. Still a domestic guest in this situation when they have fewer opportunities to go before the sea than they go before to Eastern Slavonia because marketing is the wrong thing and that is why I insisted on... activities of the tourist community as well as the ministries that can help there, because today people in Zagreb, unfortunately, or in places where they could possibly go on an annual basis, are not sufficiently familiar with these potentials that you are also instructed as tourist attractive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39230	Thank you very much. It was a respected representative, Jasen Mesic, who fought for the replica. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39231	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will answer briefly what all four colleagues and colleagues have replicated. I agree, of course, with your replicas and with the contents of your replicas, you will only agree with me that what the Ministry of Tourism presented is a significant document and that what it lacks right now, which we express as a need for it to exist, should not be an obstacle to adopt this document. But this debate as it was led, and as far as I've heard by its quality, no doubt gives you from the Ministry of Tourism and the entire government reason to think about how to actually get along with this strategy that's being targeted, which is going if I talk too much about the tourism industry, but aimfully goes to a kind of tourism industry, to build up with these different concepts that you've heard here from MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39232	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the MPs' clubs. It's the National Minorities Club and the Honorable Representative of Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39233	Thank you very much, President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words about this proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia and I can stress immediately in the introduction that by reading this material I have come up with a lot of interesting and valuable knowledge. And in that sense, in every respect, I could only congratulate all those who participated in making this material. The introduction mentions Croatian tourism today, then below, attractions and then certain chapters go where the offer of attractions, tourist infrastructure, accommodation infrastructure, general infrastructure and availability are listed. So the infrastructure in three chapters in the variant with a brief explanation which is absolutely acceptable and okay. Then comes a chapter of products, it's a little hard to apply to this part immediately when it's talking about products, but that jargon is like that. The sun and the sea, and there's a finding that it does it in total volume of 85%. Then we have nautical tourism that is constantly rising, increasing which is quite good and okay. What is perhaps, I personally expected greater participation in the total volume, that is business tourism about 10 to 15% in total. Well, then, today we have heard the reasons why it is today, and there is probably still room for this participation to increase. Then, in the perspective chapter, health tourism is listed, with participation and growth around 15-20%, this cyclotourism that is particularly interesting in continental parts and related to rural tourism, mountainous, gastronomy and enology. As far as these forms of tourism are concerned, let me just say a few words. There is also the end from which I come, Baranja, and one part, a large part and Slavonia must be very interested if we have extraordinary resources for the development of such tourism. First of all, we must stress that in these areas, especially when it comes to Baranja, where the large complexes of orics, where large systems of various agricultural, former combinations are now privately owned, have led to important changes in these areas, i.e. in villages, in villages. It's just an example to say, in prewar years, I'm sure you all know, and you heard the combination Belje hired over 7,000 workers, and now I don't think there's even 1800. It is normal that every modernisation in agriculture, does not create jobs, but rather abolishs jobs. We know that both the processing industry and the capacity are increasingly oriented towards large consumer centres, therefore these environments in the perspective do not have a perspective to say so and of course we see and expect much from that so-called. rural or various types of tourism that are listed here. There was one finding that more than 160,000 guests visited the wine roads and that these areas, the rural tourism most developed in Istria, something in Dalmatia, and mentioning Osijek-Baranja County. I appreciate that, but we also have certain indicators in the constant increase and overnight stays and visits, etc. However, I must stress here that for the further development of all kinds of these, this tourism in rural areas, I would now return to this first finding of infrastructure one, two and three, that infrastructure is very much. I can only point out this information, while in those areas where rural tourism is also developed, in these areas supplying the population with high-quality water and waste water drains is somewhere between 95 and 100%, while in our neighbourhoods it is between 40 to a maximum of 65 to 70%. And we can't develop tourism when one of our bus guests arrives, and it just so happens it's raining so hard to get out. I mean, these are some basic things that we need to solve and get through. For us it is very important, away from the infrastructure given the position of our places between Kopački rit and Baranja Mountain, we still have a problem, not to have, we have absolutely a problem with waste water, they are being delayed into an open canal network which is then being drained towards Kopačka rit, etc. towards the Danube. And for three, four years, we've been struggling to get the first wastewater purifier ready, and these days, I'm doing my best to put it into function because that's the only way we can save Kopački ass. And I can tell you that there's a certain understanding, but that's not enough, that's not enough, that's why I'm stressing it, I'm sorry there's no minister to hear it too, is without it we're not going to have rural tourism. Here one percent is found to be in total tourism, which is directly employed somewhere close to 6.9 or 7% of total employees. I think it's small and if they cut large reserves there, with certain investments, that percentage could and must be far higher. And I personally estimate that if these predictions in this material are realized and material conditions are created for further infrastructure development then and for rural areas tourism will mean in a certain way the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39234	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club and distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39235	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed deputy and assistant, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that this proposal for a strategy on tourism is here today in the Parliament before us and we could also conclude that strategy in a recent sentence and it is not enough just for the sun and the sea. We've heard a lot about numbers, so I'm not going to repeat them, but here I'm going to try to be kind of brief and brief and go the way we really want from this strategy? Certainly preserve the clean environment instead of exclusively the sun and must have different products for the target guest, extend the season beyond what it is now, new employment, quality tourism with an average of three, four, five stars, a better quality life of the local population, the preservation of local identity and culture, the destination of Croatia as a destination of unforgettable vacation, be attractive for capital laying, better capacity filling and certainly more price opening and opportunities for greater consumption of guests. What do we got? We have an ecologically healthy nature and sea, not built-up space, human potentials, quality food, historical and cultural heritage, the proximity of the emission markets, a little distance between coastal and continental areas, preserved indigenous lifestyles, situated facilities of average quality, hotels, camps and apartments. When I read this strategy, we confirm what we systematically repeat in this assembly and what we warn about, and this is the lack of policy between various ministries and all those laws that we bring here. Each ministry brings some of its strategies and plans at all seem to us sometimes not thinking about some whole path we all want to go together. The same goes for laws. And the proposer of this strategy concludes that the laws are not harmonised and contribute to a large part of respecting themselves and also to skeptics for any investment due to simply uncertain outcomes. People just don't know what, how and where. When we're not in line with the ministries, then we're not even in line to run one of the same policies at national and local level. We are now witnessing that almost every mayor and mayor in Croatia, with the exception of here are honorable exceptions, should know how to work and how to set things up especially from this strategy. Unfortunately, they are just people with greater or less opportunities, with clear or almost no visions of developing their own self-government, let alone the development of tourism. The tourism ministry should first bring all its principles in this strategy into line with the tourism communities that would then implement projects locally. However, the presidents of the tourist communities are mostly mayors and mayors who unfortunately do not always understand what is being said and what is to be done. I'm telling you all of this from my own experience because here I have a case that we have around us a lot of municipalities or commissioners whose only goal and story of tourism is to a football club. The money in the budgets is getting smaller and anyone who comes up with a new idea is most often a great enemy. We are talking about Croatian tourism as an ecological destination and then right where the Ministry of Tourism plans to increase the capacity and development of tourism The Ministry of Economy approves of the dirty industry. We ignore all investments especially by those individuals. Of course you know what I'm talking about and I'm talking about the Plomin thermal power plant. Istria has about 400 agrotourism rural economies with about 4 thousand beds, and the success story that we have heard about today has already started in the 96th year. Citizens took expensive loans because they themselves acted in the story of rural tourism and decided to build rural houses with pools to increase their incomes and a large part of them and only to get a job because they were out of work by closing successful factories. And now, after a few years of investing in these rural houses, they have to close because they don't satisfy the quality of water because of rock, thermoelectric, cement or limestone, and these are the tragedies of these little ordinary people who have really spent many years of their lives and a lot of their capital just because they believe in the story. Although private renters earn over 50% of the tourism revenues on them in this strategy, there are very few words. We justify this by preventing further expansion of such tourism but the strategy does not say anything about how in this existing segment we already have to improve tourism services. What we need to do to strengthen these precisely private tenants that we now claim in this strategy are not branded, are not synchronised, and that everyone drags on their side. What do you do to make them full because without talking about them in the strategy we justified by the fact that their fill is much less than they do in hotels? What then to do to increase that capacity in the capacity we already have that someone has built into which someone has invested it? What are we planning in this strategy to strengthen extra-pansion consumption and activity? How do we put it in the same story, according to this strategy, so all these tenants with producers such as eco food, wine producers, oil, indigenous souvenirs? How successfully can projects be implemented together by the Ministry of Tourism, Economy, Agriculture, Culture? How many citizens are ready to write successful projects to obtain funds from cohesion funds? What does this strategy say about county development agencies? As such, they are nowhere as the bearer of a particular project, and we have them and they have also been the county development agencies working on a strategy and development of tourism and the development of their counties. In order for each region to know what we want and where we want to go, it would be easier for us to come to investments anyway. But now we're having a paradox. As many strategies as we write and as successful as we are at some local level don't depend much on us. It depends more and more on someone else, least of all on us. For example, when we look at demand for broadcasting countries, Slovenia is 4th place for the first three months. We develop tourism in Istria, no matter what Slovenia borders Istria, we lift the railway. Instead of thinking about a whole story that we're going to connect exactly the tourists that exist in the statistics and that we have, we're going to end certain resources because they're not rentable to us and we're justifying it by the fact that that's the way it has to be. That's exactly what I was saying that the ministries aren't connected, that we don't all see the same goal together and we don't know where we're going. What about cultural events? 25% of the taxes on Pula Amphitheater tickets, Arena, summer, thousands and thousands of tourists, international spectacles not to talk about the western coast of Istria where some concerts are held almost daily, and instead of lowering the tax on tickets, we leave this VAT at 25%, and in this strategy we talk about bringing a tourism development strategy in order to be as competitive as possible. Cultural events as far as performances are concerned, for every foreign performer, any performance must be made a work permit. It's scary. We have witnessed last year or before that an authentic Australian musician was detained in Karlovac because in the next few hours, two or three hours he had to have a concert, the organizer didn't get his work permit. In Pula, every year there is a phenomenal festival of theatre where last year there was thought somewhere about 14 ensembles from all over the world and for every performer from that ensemble there was to be a work permit for one single day. And if that's what we're doing, I have to point out that they're performers and that they're coming to Croatia, performers who are outside the EU's borders. We are witnessing the establishment of lies throughout Croatia. It is these lies that should be on the trail of all of what we are saying, uniting strategies of local self-government, the county in one whole that those who are in these lies and in them are both old and young and members of the association and entrepreneurs and local and regional self-government have designed the best story so that they can develop their end in quality. But again, in most cases, the presidents of these lies are again the same presidents of the tourist communities and again those same mayors and mayors we mentioned at the outset. Yesterday we discussed in this assembly how it turns out that in Croatia we only have a limited number of people who know how to work because we put one of these into several functions, and that we do not analyse their successes or successes or failures at all, and it does not bring good to anyone in the long run, and at least to those environments where such things happen. It is debated in this strategy on human potential more precisely about their expertise by resenting the curricula and the insufficient professional practice of future tourist workers. The policy we are running is difficult to achieve in the long run in creating quality tourist staff. Last year, a successful travel agency from Istria opened a tender for new jobs. Since we have almost 370,000 unemployed now, it is unnecessary to even mention how many candidates have come forward. The candidates were invited to talk, and within three days they had to prove their abilities, including knowledge of at least three foreign languages, which was only one of the conditions. Finally, none of them entered the narrow circle that entered the narrow circle was received because the employer at that time took advantage of the possibility of hiring several people for 1600 kuna. Of course, none of the employees went through the qualification process and no one was interested in how many languages he knew and what his competences were. What about seasonal workers who, in most cases, the foreign employer makes the most of it? Our people need to talk to each other in hotels owned by foreigners in his own language. What kind of motivation is that for these people at all, what can we expect from such workers, and how much more they can give themselves to that guest to whom they should be available and to whom they should be kind, and that is exactly the kindness that we draw here in this strategy. We talked about nature parks, we talked about spatial plans. Unfortunately, I don't have that much time, but one of them falls into the water because in the municipality where the nature park Učka is built parallel tourism and we build a thermal power plant. The spatial plans that we support the master plan for tourism development in Istria allow the mayors or municipal councils to change on their own on a voluntary basis for the use of ecological rent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39236	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39237	Mrs Tyrelli, you have also said nicely about the possibilities of cultural tourism and you have well touched the VAT on tickets to cultural events, concerts and everything else. When you look around that tax is between 5 and 10%, and that the environment actually when you talk about Istria affects Venice, Slovenia, the lower part of Austria, and even to these nearby parts of Hungary, you realize that if we do not change it in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act that we will lose great tourist potential. This attracts tens and tens of thousands of young people who, according to the strategy, are one of the targeted clients whom the strategy recognises as a potential opportunity for development. I think it's very important that we point that out and point that out. However, another thing we did not mention in this strategy was Mr Vuksic, which is the issue of audiovisual promotion, so-called. promotions under the radar. There is no advertising on CNN, on Sky or on any other channel that can promote Rovinj as promoted by di warplanes fly in front of the Rovinj panorama. It was such a powerful marketing and it had to be in this strategy under the marketing chapter to find space for us to just attract such an industry.... There's no advertiser, there's no paid commercial that can promote the Dubrovnik Walls the way they promote the Game of Thrones. There's no one who can promote Opatija like it's going to be promoted by a new film about Lady Di, it's terribly powerful. The city of New York based its tourist offer on it, on no ads, only filmmaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39238	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39239	Yes, my colleague, I agree with you and regarding this audiovisual promotion, unfortunately we don't have that much time to talk about everything, but you mentioned Venice, so I'm going to get on board. We talk all the time about connecting green and blue Istria, but what is happening to us? Tourists who even come to the blue sea at the end of one day or two days are organized in Venice instead of organised in green Croatia. So that is one of the reasons, that is one of the models on which we could then increase consumption, and that is the goal for them to leave as much in Croatia as possible, and not for us to take them beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia in the offers of some one-day or two-day trips. All that we're saying is we should just put it into one whole. So we have the capacity, we know what we have to do, how we have to, and we just stay in the end to realize it. The biggest problem seems to me to be that everyone is left alone, so we haven't done anything, this is a strategy, but we need to make concrete action plans for every area where people will know exactly what their long-term sustainability is, what they can invest in, and what will ultimately be invested and paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39240	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39241	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Tirelli, you mentioned an increase in the capacity planned by 2020. In this list, it says that the Sibenik area plans to build only 1,000 hotel rooms. I think the Sibenik-Knin County is significantly undervalued because only the city of Vodice plans to build two extremely attractive positions between Vodice and Sibenik, so-called. Lower shrill and construction of new 6200 beds and between Vodice and Tribunja 1100 new beds. However, I would not, in fact, appeal to these capacities right now, but I don't think it's right to neglect the capacity of a type of primoštenski in which we have 2,500 bearings that are devastated. Do we not think that at least those in that period should be put into operation together with the capacities of the Lucica marina, it is 600 beds and in Rogoznica Kalebovo port which also has a new 1500 beds to be built. And a cartoon about work permits. In Vodice, a guest was detained who had been practicing aerobics on the beach with her friends. The police passed, and she thought she was an aerobic coach and that's why a work permit should be issued. You can only assume the reactions of the whole group and the agencies that had significant problems because there was a group of girls in the mood for the morning exercise doing it on our beaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39242	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39243	Just this last thing you said on the trail is my personal and I think thinking of each of us here where we should mean little things do a big thing and those little things need to be successful and put them into a good whole that will work in a way that will be good for everyone. It must be our goal that when a tourist crosses the border of the Republic of Croatia that we all have something from him and that we are all satisfied because he has come. Speaking of capacities and here's the neglect of the county in this strategy is just another proof that lawmakers in most cases don't listen to the field. Communication must be mutual. The communication in no way can only be from the top down, but it certainly does have successful strategies, successful action plans, successful stories, especially those who are worse and who pass certain laws, propose certain strategies or action plans must hear not only listen, but hear what the base tells them. Because only people who work every day and who are in contact with tourists, do they know where the biggest problem is with users. If we don't take it as a practice in the long run, we'll never be well not just in 2020 in tourism, but in the long run, nowhere at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39244	New replica and respected representative Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39245	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you guys mentioned the mayors and mayors who are presidents of the tourist community, and then basically they don't know what they're supposed to do. It's a very casual grade. Of course there are those to whom it means more, whose tourism is actually the first branch as a colleague we line down in Vodice. I'm sure she knows what she's doing down there. And I was down there, I had a chance to see it. And I've been on Rab for 10 years, so I know about my colleagues, and so on. However, I even felt it was not good that the law defined that the mayors and mayors must be presidents of tourist communities, although I suppose the legislator did so precisely because they were interested in those environments that did not deal with tourism in such a way as to encourage them to do so. Last week, however, he was a tourism minister visiting the Krapina-Zagor County and said something that remains remembered for our tourist employees. In the continent, it is at least twice as difficult, if not to develop tourism more than at sea, and we are now entering, Croatia enters the EU, we are entering a market of 500 million people and we are completely unknown as Croatia as regards tourism for the interior, Slavonia, Baranja, or Gorski Kotar, or Croatia's Zagorje mine. She's a total stranger. And what do we do? Well, the Adriatic has limited capacity. We can't be visited by 30 million people on the Adriatic, but we can offer a new product precisely in these parts of Croatia that have not been well presented so far, and in which way it is only a marketing issue. 2014, 2015, 2016 should invest a lot in marketing what other colleagues have said, so that then 17, 18, 19 and 20, and these other areas can start breathing with tourism and have some benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39246	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39247	My colleague Kolar, I didn't really hail all the mayors and mayors at the moment, and I said really here's a deep respect for honorable exceptions. However, you will agree with me when I say that there is no vision in small municipalities, no goal in terms of tourism development, and in order to achieve what you are talking about, so that we will be a brand that will increase capacities, which will be recognizable not only because of the coast and the sea but also to be recognizable because of the destination of the entire Croatia, then you will definitely agree with me that I need to find a way for young, capable, educated, highly educated people to be given space and the ability to do exactly that marketing, to agree with this very management story, to agree with these strategies and action plans that will make their municipality, their city recognizable, and as such and part of then recognizable as a whole of Croatia as a tourist destination.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39248	New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you were talking about private accommodation. I support everything you say, everything. And I'm still going to talk about this accommodation today because I think it's simply Croatian tourism. It was created 40 years ago, popularly called the Zimmer Frei. Private accommodation is the Zimmer frei known by all the benevolents who came to that country and this country today. Through this private accommodation then and that state and that social arrangement were different, let's say we were perceived differently in the eyes of these people who came as tourists than other countries that had the same communism of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia today, Hungary and so on. They too had tourism, but Yugoslavia was perceived as an open country. It was a fact and it should be spoken of because this document does not respect it as much as it might be, does not offer the state's care about these people. They're still on their own. Here we say we're going to insist on some content, raising quality, workshops, this, this, some markings. But these people still need something else. They are in real trouble today even though they are now in the same investment cycle as perhaps private hotelers. Everyone's getting ready and they're all expecting something. However, they were always mostly only on the coup of the state when something had to be given. They regularly pay their coffers, stay taxes, let's just remember the conflicts over legal and illegal renters and the non-reporting of guests who come, etc. And today there's still all this, but over time they've been trying to move those barriers. And that is why I asked that perhaps the minister himself would say whether it is normal for such people, that these people do not have a representative in the tourist... and that is the tourist community at the level of Croatia. They don't! Will he get it? Here, and that would already be progress if their voice were heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39250	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39251	I really hope that here is the minister, that he heard what we have already said several times, that these representatives of small tenants, or individuals, will be in the tourist community, and that we will have the opportunity to discuss this. What I resent is for sure is that for small tenants they are not said in this strategy because that expansion happened, because they have a small fill-up, a short fill-up, and then they are not worth being in that strategy at all because of those few days, and that's what's not good at all. Because these little tenants are taxpayers of income tax or other income, they pay to the state, they pay to the state budget, and then it happens again to us on the trail of some of the mayors and mayors who didn't do well in their municipalities not even make a tourist community at all, and then the residence tax is paid in another city, but that other city since it is his tourist community not worthy to invest any kuna in maintaining green areas, etc. in the second municipality, then citizens, i.e. those small tenants, to be more competitive, to be returned to them and to have guests come to them again, they must invest their money and even in that green infrastructure. So these are all the problems that we need to open up, which we need to talk about in a transparent manner and where we have to put our hand on the heart and say that we owe these small tenants a helping hand as a ministry, we are obliged to design programs and projects to make them better and that what we are now hating them fix, i.e. the number of nights and the number of guests repair for the satisfaction of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39252	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of representatives' clubs in the Croatian Assembly for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's next, the first respected representative, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39253	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what we've all agreed in the debate so far that tourism today is the world's leading industry, and these globalization processes that are happening will certainly further encourage its development to an even greater extent. And that's why this strategy that we're discussing today is extremely important. So, this is the first one we can say a whole strategic document that plans the future of Croatian tourism and will serve as such as a basic document for both county and urban tourism strategies, but also as a necessary platform for withdrawing funds from European funds. In this sense, the strategy also defined a vision, and according to this vision, Croatia should be a globally recognizable tourist destination, attractive for investment and job creation that manages sustainable development throughout its space and provides hospitality, security and diverse and authentic products and experiences throughout the year. So it's a vision from this strategy. It found that Croatia's main development goal is to enter 20 of the world's leading tourism most competitive countries and to double annual tourism revenues from the existing 7 billion to the next 14 billion euros. At this moment, Croatia is 34th in its competitiveness in the world frameworks, in the European frameworks on 24th, and among the 9 Mediterranean countries only in 8th place and indeed in that position, and we cannot really be satisfied with it if we put it in the context of available resources. So in the next few years, Croatia should become a globally recognizable tourist destination competitive and above all attractive to investors. And unlike my colleagues from HDZ, here I listened very carefully and some of them were priors against such results being achieved. So they don't believe it. I also believe what makes me believe is the fact that the strategy provides for the realisation of new investments of around 7 billion euros that will change the existing accommodation structure. So, by 2020, Croatian tourism should have received more than 200 new large and small hotels with about 100,000 new beds and about 7,000 campsites. In all these capacities in tourism and monitoring activities, what is extremely important, especially from today's position, is that 30 thousand people should be employed. So 30 thousand new jobs should open these facilities. What is more clearly evident from the strategy is that the improvement of Croatia's competitive position as a tourist destination, and of course by increasing tourism consumption, will certainly not contribute to the offer based on the sun and the sea, which is still dominant at the moment, because it is still the dominant Croatian tourist product, our total tourist offer is still seasonal, so it takes practically from June to September and is concentrated on only one narrow belt, so along the Adriatic coast, i.e. on the Adriatic coast. This strategy therefore foresees the creation of new, new innovative and quality tourism products that would transform this Croatian tourist offer gradually from this dominant seasonal offer of sun and sea to tourism throughout the year, into tourism of emotions and experiences, because tourism is indeed an emotional and experience industry with more extensive use of the tourism potentials of continental Croatia. And I, as a continental girl, am actually very pleased that the strategy recognises the potential of continental tourism, he is currently participating in total tourism consumption, i.e. total income from tourism consumption somewhere with 6% to 7%, and that is definitely too little. In terms of tourism, the conservation of the environment is one big one, I would say absolutely the most comparative advantage of Croatia and these advantages should be more specifically highlighted from localities to localities, and that is what does not actually satisfy me in the strategy when we talk about access to continental tourism. So, not having defined all these destinations, with their advantages. This team is more the relatively large part of the continental part of Croatia declared protected areas of nature and should certainly be placed in the position of tourist offer. The innovative tourism products or as they are called here in the strategy, which are products with a marked perspective of development, include health tourism, chicotourism, cycling tourism, not to use this foreign expression, rural and mountain tourism, golf tourism, adventure and sports tourism, eco tourism and gastronomy and enology. What he wants to put a special accent on in his debate and what I want to underline is that it is a good thing that in the strategy is particularly apostrophe of health tourism. It is good because the world health tourism market is growing at an annual rate of 15%. So, in 2011, unfortunately I have no data for 2012, the revenues from that tourism exceeded $120 billion, and that is indeed the only one, I would say, the tourism industry that has not been affected in the years of recession, which has not recorded the negative trends and which will definitely continue to grow. Croatia has excellent predisposition for the development of health tourism. We already have a competitive offer of wellness, thermal and valsotherapian centers. The important step was also taken in the domain of medical tourism through the insurance of dental services, classical and aesthetic surgery, orthopedics, physiotherapy, etc. Therefore, Croatia can provide excellent medical services, primarily because it has top medical, excellent medical staff and all these services can be provided at very competitive prices. Of course, what is necessary is the existing hotel wellness, so to speak, entrenched by new medical wellness services, and through this new service to extend the season to extend the season and increase the use of total hotel capacities. A good example of this, I will say, are such programs in Slovenia, for me there in Međimurje neighbouring Slovenia who have completely changed the offer of Slovenian spas and hotels and provided them with full annual fill-up. And of course, which is very important primarily to foreign tourists of more paid power. We have good examples in Croatia too, so I will mention the island of Mali Lošinj, which is mainly the efforts of the local community, and then the tourist entities are transformed literally into a destination of health tourism and island vitality. Or, for example, I will mention the Varazdin spas which are a recognizable destination of healthcare tourism in northwestern Croatia, of course I can't miss, not when I mention the Varazdin spas, so don't mention the top resort resort resort of St. Martin in my Međimurje. When I mention all this, I would like to say that the larger number of spas in northwestern Croatia are located in a radius of 70 to 100 kilometers from Zagreb and can be very easily positioned in a unique destination, which is a good opportunity for Zagreb itself to get a position that he did not eventually shape this whole time, so to be branded as a city of medicine and medical tourism, which would allow better use of capacities in private and certainly in public health. All of this should be united in an action plan that will bring together both the county and the cities, and the municipalities and, of course, their development agency, which was spoken of by counterpart Nanasi. Further, special rehabilitation hospitals, therefore thermal facilities, private health facilities, consulting companies in health and tourism, hotel companies, travel agencies, builders, educational institutions and manufacturers and food distributors, and then further insurance companies, pharmaceutical houses and medical equipment suppliers. So tourism is indeed an integral activity, a multidisciplinary activity. Only one such action plan that connects all those interested in the health tourism industry can lead to success, so it can make Croatia a country of health, can connect blue and green Croatia, in one word it can make Croatia an attractive all year long European Riviera. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39254	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We've reported several replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39255	Thank you, Mr. President. My esteemed colleague said that we are HDZ that we do not believe in achieving these figures. We didn't say we didn't believe it. We said we were skeptical. Whoever said he didn't really believe it was a candidate for the Istrian mayor, Mr. Cain, he definitely didn't believe in any number. He said he'd be happy if a third of it was accomplished. Why are we being skeptical? You know, we're skeptical because of the overall results of this government and programme 21, so we've taught you just experience to be more careful in that sense and we'd really like to look positively at this strategy, so we said, in the debate on behalf of the Club, that we would be affirmatively determined according to this document. This is really a surprise. We finally have a strategy in Parliament on something. After a year and something really we have a strategic document. To congratulation, commendable. This has already caused us not only trust but also faith that something might eventually change, that there will indeed be some positive shifts. It automatically opened up with us and so to speak, with approval we looked at it until we even started reading the strategy. It's just that she came here to this assembly, unlike many of the others that we've so pompously announced. So let us perhaps be a little restrained in that faith that every figure here will be realized but we are still far from that SDP candidate for the Istrian mayor, Mr Caine, at the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39256	Replication response, dear colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39257	You said you weren't against it, that you were skeptical. I'd like to say that even skepticism shouldn't be a place to talk about this the more you welcome the strategy. Well, you're congratulating her for showing up. I really think she's good and should talk positive about her. It should be stressed that this is one strategic project, one vision, so in an activity that is really expected and realistic is expected a lot precisely because we have excellent resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39258	New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39259	Thank you very much, President. My colleague Jelash, you told us on this side that we do not believe in this strategy and we are only skeptical and we are looking for this skepticism in the results of this government because I will now remind you of your debate on the 2013 budget when you also spoke very optimisticly about GDP growth of 2% and it has been three months and we have determined that this optimism had no real basis, so now it is 0.7 and in the end it will be minus 1 and we will once again discuss this document. But it's much more important than this. Here, if we don't make these seven billion extras, it probably won't do anyone any good, but this budget hurts some because they remain without some of the funds they received, and that's exactly the government's decisions, and that's why we rightly warned that it might be better to write down realistically what it would be to expect if the government's ability to even start all of this here on the 50th pages and beyond where those activities are in the table for 2013 because there's not one more, not one. That's the problem, and if we keep going like that and we're already in the middle of the year, we can conclude that for 2013 we haven't done anything we projected, so if we do it a few more years later, this document remains a dead letter on paper. So it's good that this government puts a verb in its program to work, not a verb to talk, a verb to write, but to work, and perhaps then this strategy could have a certain effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39260	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39261	Here's me, unlike you, I want to believe that the second rebalance won't be because as far as we're concerned now, the budget is well charged. You know the first quarter is always bad after those winter months, 11, 12 months. So it's actually always and hard for me to actually listen to how much you want these bad prophecies to come true like you have some spare country to say so. So if it's bad, you'll share that fate. I want to tell you that you need to believe first of all that I'm talking about something today, because if we're not going to support it ourselves, and if we're not going to believe it, I don't know who will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39262	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39263	Dear colleague Jelash, it is disputed that we must believe in you not in us, it is a problem of faith but good. When I was in Cartagena, Colombian part of the Caribbean, I asked why they had so many tourists, it's a lot of tourists and it's not a particularly nice city, all our Adriatic cities are nicer than the Caribbean, and then I asked why they were lured? Burning green diamond. That's where the famous green diamond is shot, if you remember that movie, you probably all watched it, and people come to watch the streets, watch it scrape in cars. Everything that was recorded there went to watch. In Croatia, it seems to me that we still look too closely or look at or treat tourism. What I was saying earlier, an hour ago and some time ago, that we should expand those aspects a little bit. What I said about the Labourists proposing to build a movie town on Velesim. You must know that before the '90s we had a strong film industry and we had a respectable study at European level. The state must offer some solutions, you must sow something to reap. You can't just buy and then Linic goes, so who's '45? Those partisans when they're grinding ceilings, grains all they had. It's not gonna happen that way. So to expand the horizon, there's only talk here about tourism or any other branch. There's a need to expand the view. So if we're gonna make it, look at the jag when one film actor comes to the Adriatic or some very famous singer or singer, rocker, all the world's media is writing about it. People come after that. And you want to put big taxes on concerts. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39264	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39265	I agree with all of you what you really said. So I haven't personally been to the Caribbean and photographed the green diamond but what I believe is that Croatia has a lot of such green diamonds just because the fact that they are still so let's say simplified in one raw state so it needs to be packed, it should be marketingly designed, it should be made fascinating because tourism is primarily a kind of fascination. So I have to work a lot on propagating those green diamonds of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39266	New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39267	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jelash makes every strategy in good faith because if the strategy were not brought in good faith then that strategy would not make sense. But also in front of such a crowded hall when discussing such an important document then the logical thing is that people are offering arguments that maybe some figures are a little bit so ticky and I think that in Croatia with all the praise of the strategy that we understand, we should nevertheless imagine how little we have worked on this strategy from the 10th to the 5th month when it is simply all private capacities are closed from service to accommodation both on the continent and on the coast, and that is our problem. I'm looking at this strategy and I don't think anybody touched that segment because nobody wants to touch it, and it's cancer wound. Because you have a bunch of tourist destinations that say you can't move from there until the end of the 8th month, you can't park a car 5km near the center. And then he gets there somewhere on the 15th of September, and you practically have a total desert by the 6th month next year. And now that you take the problem of infrastructure and everything else together, I think that's the problem of developing Croatia's tourism in the future. 'Cause look, I got something to say to Mr. Pende's assistant, and she knows it well in the state budget doesn't exactly feel that big income from tourism. Neither counterpart Linic nor last year has felt these huge billions of income increases in the 7th, 8th month, incomes are increasing but not so much. Therefore, we do not need to get carried away with billions of people, but we need to be realistic, and then we will all believe in a strategy in good faith, but if someone makes an observation, believe that it is also in good faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39268	Thank you very much. And there's no answer, there's no good faith. Thank you very much. We are continuing an individual debate of 10 minutes and it is up to the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's definitely exactly what the esteemed colleague Schucker was saying, so according to the strategy, we're determined affirmatively. She's one of the few that we've had a chance to see in this assembly, they'd say habemus strategy, finally, let's do something we can overly and constructively discuss and see right now that there's less politicization to try to stick to specific topics. The start of this job dates back to 2010 and 2011 when a project task was made and the implementation of this strategy was the continuation of this job that was already launched. This also makes some of the mistakes that exist in the text that should be improved a little bit. Let's just say when we talk about UNESCO's heritage, we don't mention the Plitvices that are also listed in UNESCO's register, but only cultural goods are mentioned. In the immaterial as well, that list should be renewed because it is simply no longer adequate for the existing state. It is a shame that from this debate on the strategy that we have in the House, we cannot propose any amendments that would go with this document being further completed and further improved. And what I lack in this strategy is that I can't see from this text, although when we had a discussion on the board, it was said that this strategic document also overlaps with other strategies in other ministries. Now there's a strategy at the Ministry of Culture waiting, I guess, and probably a change of government, I don't know what else to say for a year and a half. It's called the Strategy for Economic Use of Cultural Heritage. You'd ideally compliment with this, unfortunately, not listed here. The point is that if you want to develop cultural tourism based on heritage, then the funding criteria of the reconstruction projects are completely changed, and that only those facilities that already have the intended tourism purpose in the coming short period, which means that they are in the first row of financing other than those that are extremely endangered, which means that those cultural objects those museums that are involved in tourism... are going to finance the first ones because they are then starting to return funds invested in them. The investment best defends cultural heritage, and I fully understand when I come to whether some regulations may be rigid and should be discussed differently. Yes, it is true that cultural heritage will best be preserved if you invest in it and give it a specific tourist purpose. In addition, these investment projects, which I have already asked for in the way they were chosen, and whether it may be left out to make a whole set of smaller investments that would not be directly related to these large investments in hotel projects but to micro-investments. You have a whole series of rural units where with very little investment in one micro management plan, starting from rural sites, there was a programme of the tourism ministry that seemed to me "under the centuries of roofs" to be called, which was precisely what it was intended to do, so to support private people to restore cultural heritage, to make it a traditional tourist accommodation resource, but to restore it under conservative principles. And I think it worked very well, especially in the interior of Istria. The rural plan and mountain tourism should be divided by me. I think there are a lot more potential rural agrotourism in the valley than at altitude, according to my rough assessment, and I think it should be separated into two separate parts, even I would say that however mountain tourism is a kind of rural tourism which, of course, has low-level moments, etc. As far as coordination and implementation are concerned, there will be huge problems for both the minister and his associates. Because it is planned to be a co-ordinated body where the deputy ministers will be, if they are very successful in one co-ordination, they will solve one problem. I don't think he'll make it any more. Mr. Minister, I suggest you do this, make the ministries you mention here, make them make so-called. podstrategics and their action plan to realise what you here say is necessary, and we support it. Make the Ministry of Culture, force the Ministry of Regional Development, force the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, transport and links to your lines, airline destinations, allow lines to track you into this if we believe this is a government strategy. Make it the Ministry of Culture apply that strategy that's unanimously voted, so let them finance it... because then in this idea, they will follow you. Make them increase those funds for the European Union funds, there mentioned Jusuf Maskovica han, they have a million kuna in the budget, and only one object is the documentation 2 million. In that system, then, we will really see in the 7-year period direct effects not only in the Assembly, not only in the wider community, but in the field, which will then have positive shifts in the wider social sense, not only in terms of tourist inflows, but in terms of ways of preserving life in which I want to come to an end. I don't understand how I can be, like, fishing or, say, diving in Istria, a secondary and tertiary tourist product, and golf has to be the primary. For diving tourism in Istria, I don't think there's anything more to be invested than diving centres. It's practically nothing. For golf, they need a lot of activity. Fishing, simply well charged organize... and determine those limits of respect for the laws that can simply be caught or not caught. We don't have to classify it as a secondary and therapeutic tourist product in my opinion. Why tourism can be important for wider social prosperity and what might be at the end of this strategy. At the end of this strategy should be that a man on Peljesac, a man on Mljet, a man in Baranja works and lives as he has learned in his miles and in his cultural environment, and that tourism is just the added value of it, that what he produces in this way of life, creates, is something that someone will want to see and buy. How can we use this monumental rent, I keep saying that, so that cities can buy in their historic markets sales places, so that no one can be offended, importing jeans and trinkets and pearls, but be oil, be dried figs, be the traditional toys that will be sold there, and believe me, they'll be bought by cruise tourists because they won't be able to buy them anywhere else, while at the same time allowing those people who produce to live on their own as they were and how they were. It is the key to the interest of tourism in these parts that we try to further expand it and that is why I am not so interested in whether thousands of these beds will actually come true. I think it's much more important to renovate what is both in the Dalmatian hinterland and in Baranja and Slavonia and those relaxing parts that in some ways I can prosper from it. So I'm not afraid if our traditional oil cheese is a cultural product, it's cultural because they had nothing but sheep and goats and couldn't keep it different than oil because they simply had no other way of preservatives. It can be so powerfully touristic if we want a brand that we just need to preserve it the way it was created and how it worked. That's why I think the strategy would require these smaller investment projects than those listed. And insist on ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, insist on other ministries to implement it, insist and I assure you that you will surely have support from this home in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39270	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. Let's get this straight. Dear Mirella Holly and the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39271	Dear fellow Mesic, so I agree with most of your debate, I particularly believe that you were right about the creation of certain financial instruments to finance cultural content, so I say offers that can also be exploited for tourist purposes, so I was somewhat surprised that in the past term you were the culture minister who had the responsibility to protect nature, that in a similar way you did not think about financing of natural projects and therefore object to the creation of a powerful financial instrument that would enable you to realise priority projects in the field of nature protection, which is precisely the national park agency against which your party strongly stood up when we discussed the Nature Protection Act that had built into that instrument in that part. In fact, you're absolutely right when you say there is no movement unless you have certain financial instruments with which you can implement certain policy contents, and since this instrument, the National Park Agency would be a very powerful instrument of 400 million kuna that could be the contribution and development of the so-called. The ecological tourism mentioned in this context I think you have in some way double criteria for something that was at the end and the area of your action and your portfolio, and I hope you will reconsider that decision when you get a little more information and consider what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39272	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39273	No, not definitely reviewing all attitudes and decisions is always desirable and well, but it is not true that I did not support both in financial terms and offers in terms of natural heritage at the time when I was responsible for this resort and today I think it would be better if there was a combination of natural heritage and cultural heritage left. It is in our tradition, this tradition in this country is over 100 years old in many places and we have always had the State Department for the Protection of Natural and Cultural Heritage precisely because cultural heritage in that characteristic of cultural identity almost always came from the natural environment you want Krapje, you want rural... Dalmatian burns, you want places in Dalmatian coves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Always, almost always is. As far as financial concentration is concerned, it is important to invest. Whether to invest 10 times 40 or 400 is not so sure that 10 sources would be more wrong than only funding from one source. I am somehow inclined to believe that the specificities of Croatia either in natural features, whether in cultural features should be preserved and encouraged in some way. I am not a supporter of this despite being born in Zagreb, although I have run for mayor of this city, I do not think that everything should be decided in the city of Zagreb. And I believe that that's what citizens think, that this system can be improved, that I can prevent the dubiosis that you know from standing absolutely standing up or needing to elaborate on it. However, the fact is that this very consistency that you are talking about and on a principled approach would be much easier to realize that natural and cultural heritage remained united. It's even a special UNESCO list that combines these two phenomena.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39274	Thank you very much. Now you have three replicas from your own club, so let's get in line. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39275	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mesic replica to you is precisely because of some things that you've just touched so you've elaborated a little bit. 'Cause look, when there's some kind of economic issue being discussed here, then everybody's talking about some kind of fiscal burden. At the same time as we talk about tourism, then we say that cultural heritage is the basis of the arrival of tourists and Dubrovnik I say you would certainly not have so many tourists if you didn't have what you have. But when we talk about a couple of fiscal advances, then there's a monumental rent. However, only one question is how much cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia has been restored through the monumental rent. There was also already a very interesting debate this afternoon, and the budget of the Ministry of Culture has grown from some 500, 600 million in 2008 to over one billion kuna, and it best speaks about the government's attitude towards cultural heritage. But I repeat again that fifth to tenth month without cultural heritage, without that cultural heritage including to say so in the tourist activity we can talk whatever we want. Let's see when the hotels of the countries that are competitive to us are full. They're full over the weekend Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, you practically have no one. And here's what's very little to say, and that's sports tourism. Why all our sports clubs and summer seasons, actually for the autumn season, and also for the spring season, go everywhere just not getting ready for us. Can't we invest in Istria, Dalmatia in sports facilities and thus actually do the best promotion. Because these athletes will come with them and family members, the media will come first and they will be the best promoters of Croatian tourism, and unfortunately we do not have...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39276	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39277	All right, we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39278	Of course. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39279	Thank you. Mr. Shuker, you remember that the estimates of direct war damage on cultural heritage were over 300 million euros and that is why it went into the monumental rent that cultural heritage can be restored first and foremost after the Homeland War and held for a tourist presentation. The Dubrovnik walls have 700,000 visitors annually, 700,000 visitors. What's terribly important about that is to say that money is not coming out of the economy because it is both the obligation of local administrations and the Ministry of Culture to share income from the monumental rent to invest that money in reconstruction. Therefore, it benefits small construction licensed companies and traditional our crafts that deal with it. So that money is not going into consumption but is reinvested again, and you remember well when you were minister that certain concessions were made regarding the monumental rent, that monumental rents were freed from production activities, that traditional crafts were released, that those institutions that do not operate positively were freed just to burden those who have direct incomes from management on cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39280	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39281	Thank you very much. You have rightly warned colleagues about the need to connect as much as possible the two ministries, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Tourism i.e. that the Ministry of Tourism has an impact on the implementation of the strategy you set out. Because if tourism is something, and even before hotels and accommodation facilities, tourism is certainly a story of some city's core, the historic city core of some kind of building, and that is what needs to be insisted on so that as many people come to watch it. Remember when one foreign diver found the Apoxyomena. We've all found ourselves in some way in trouble. What are we gonna do with him? So it took some time, eventually it ended right, it's located in Losinj, it's going to be at the Apoxyomena Museum, money was found, etc. While we're all running to Paris to look at Mona Lisa, we need to know how to sell the Apoxiomen. Before all I say these capacities or anything else because not only those that have not yet been found, amphora and everything else, ships, under the sea we have a lot. However, the issue of diving is completely unresolved. We don't even know which ministry it belongs to. Is that tourism? Is that maritime? Is this something to do with maybe regional development? Someone has to define it more finally because it is a very profitable part of Croatian tourism, but it is the same as the relationship between who can issue licenses, who collects incomes, who shares it and, of course, we all get into trouble together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39282	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39283	It is true, of course, that activity also concerns the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the series, I think 12 or 13 ministries are involved in that view. I'm saying that and I said I don't know why he's in Istria a tertiary tourist product? There's nothing to do, just organize diving centers. No major investment is needed, localities exist, could be financed on their own and the full activity planned in this regard. How much the potential of cultural tourism is telling you that the Louvre which is a world brand has more tourist visits annually than the whole of Croatia in 12 months together. It's the whole of Croatia in 12 months together. It's a fragrant information, I think. And in that sense, I think it's quite possible to act. And it's a little strange for me not to be apostrophe here if you want Mr. Boric and the church, the church community. Because it is just an example of the basilica Eufrasian in which significant funds were invested in the renovation and tourist presentation. Today only on tourist tickets have almost 4 million kuna incomes that again invest naturally in the offer, expanding the offer of Euphrasian basilica in Poreč... And it needs to be discussed with church communities in that sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why would entering the Sibenik cathedral be free of charge? So go anywhere in Italy and Spain, and you won't go below 5 euros or pray. There's no way tourists can enter a church like this. Why not, if you want the Church as the owner of the cultural goods it manages, have some resources to rebuild it from? The conservatory service of the Cologne Cathedral has a permanent job of 60 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39284	And Branko Bacic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39285	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, you list a series of options with which this strategy could be further developed and repaired. I have already mentioned this morning on several occasions the possibility of valorising another part of Croatia that is not sufficiently valorised with this strategy, that is the part that refers to protected spaces in the Republic of Croatia. But what I wanted to further point out is that it seems to me that this strategy has been going on since it started writing, so here it is, until it comes to the Parliament a long time ago that it hasn't recorded that some of the measures that this strategy predicts have actually been reached by earlier laws. So, for example. in the section relating to the amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, where the need to be interned in tourist zones is mentioned in a way that allows for a clearer quality of business, but that on the other hand there is no further apartmentisation and non-intentional availability with individual units built in those premises, whether they are villas, whether they are apartments etc., etc. By amending and supplementing the 2011 Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, we set out on the proposal of the Resorship Ministry to be able and approved with this law the possibility of staging in tourist settlements, e.g. Sun Gardens down in Dvornik and towards Orasac, and in all parts of Croatia where such complexes are built. Therefore, I think that just on a proposal from the RES, we have changed the law which preserved the fundamental purpose of these capacities, and accommodation units remain in the function of tourism and catering activities. So it seems to me that in that part of the measure relating to the amendment of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39286	Thank you very much. A clear Mesic response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39287	Well, my colleague Bacic was having a hard time saying something because you're simply right in your replica. I just didn't get to say it for lack of time and it's exactly what you said. Just like I forgot to say that part about the tourist community and marketing. And what I keep thinking is that my colleague Vuksic and I are always talking like parrots, and that is also the audiovisual strategy of amending the Audiovisual Law that we had in this House also in the last government. So when you realize that certain regions in Europe pay and stimulate the arrival of film teams, just to see cultural and natural beauty and to be free of charge of advertising, what they call under the radar. And when you remember that it was once recorded in our nature parks, the Winnetou National Parks, Old Shatterhand, etc. which is the special potential of our protected natural areas, then straight as I think it should have been mentioned in this strategy. Very well-intentioned, I mean, very well-intentioned. So it's no infidelity, no skepticism it's well-intentioned only by the way it's done. You've had situations with certain films that cities, certain cities in Tuscany, have been alive since the films that were filmed there were won by Oscar. And today it's true, you really have cities where monuments are set up with certain characters from movies that were made there. It's unacceptable for us to go through the simplest, and there's all the resources and there's a terrible flow of resources because of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39288	We are continuing the debate, colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39289	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I want to say that I will support the strategy and it is to me, here it is, as a former colleague of the former tourism minister, sorry that he did not have the opportunity to defend this document, given that he sent it to the procedure and very much devoted himself to this document. And what I think, I think this is, it might seem negative, but really a strategy that's completely nerdy written by the rules of the profession, and in that sense, there's really no objection whatsoever. What I am pleased about is that the objectives of the strategy are equally nerdy written, measurable that is necessary in any strategy that wants to be realised within specific deadlines because then it can be seen exactly whether the implementation of the strategy is successful or not. And here's my compliment every one of them. The action plan that is at the end of the strategy is orderly, but I think that a certain lack of document is that the tactical tools for the implementation of this strategy should be something more concrete, something more specific, and in this way I think that we might also send a message that might be to a certain extent and reduce the expressed skepticism of opposition clubs and opposition representatives to this document, which, as I have managed to understand so far, yet more or less everyone supports. We know what we want, here we have defined goals that are measurable and how much we want, but the question is do we really know how and how to get to that within a relatively short time? In fact, the action plans and the amendments to the laws set out in this section will not be sufficient unless we have a little more elaborate concrete projects for the implementation of the strategy within these measurable objectives set out in the initial part of the strategy. I think most of the strategy is very well-detecting the existing situation and existing problems, which is a good starting point for every quality strategy because if you don't define good problems then it's hard to believe that the proposal to improve this situation that we have will also be quality and realistic. My impression, however, is when it came to the assessment of the existing situation that one small segment is missing, which is a deeper reference to the adverse effects of mass tourism that we have been developing in Croatia for many years, the environment and this is expressed in concrete figures. In fact, when we talk about tourism, we talk very often about the positive things about tourism, which are the revenues we make from tourism, and then we are very proud to talk about billions of kunas. In this part, but we pay insufficient attention to how many inflows of very large numbers of people into a relatively small area with underdeveloped quality infrastructure have left consequences for our environment and our nature. And I think that in some ways and what comes from the strategy itself might later be more realistic if we had a look at that aspect of the starting state. I will look back a little on what several colleagues have already mentioned in their discussions, and this may be an excessively elaborated marketing of Croatian tourism that we have so far seen in action and there is mentioned how certain locations, primarily about cities, can often be financiers of certain Hollywood blog boosters because they have recognised the interest in making large canvasses in front of millions of viewers or even billions of viewers in this way more plastically present and be more attractive to a very large number of people, than to just record one more or less attractive video that is then thrown on CNN or on some other large networks, informative and similar. In that sense, I know that you have probably all noticed "Sex and the City" which is quite one way to say the perfidious way of communicating Dubai where it was said that the United Arab Emirates even opposed the broadcast of this film and where further dust was created around this film. And other films, let's just say the blockbusters we've had recently seen have been particularly funded by Istanbul, so there's been a "impossible mission" relatively recently, and some European cities have been using such an instrument for years, so I would also mention Prague, which was often a financier or a co-financer of some Hollywood blockbusters. I am sorry, too, that Zagreb does not recognize, for example. the potential of such a single marketing tool by repeating always certain attractive locations that you want to present with potential tourists. So, it is often said that sex sells goods or products, and I think that today sex no longer sells goods as much as it sells diversity and creativity and creative content by which a particular tourist product differs from all other tourist products and therefore I think that Croatian tourism should be turned towards creative industries. And here, as a positive example, I would single out the Lone hotel in Rovinj, which was created by one synergy of Croatian creators, and I believe that we can find the same in that niche in some way our own space. When we talk about sustainable tourism, I prefer to talk about sustainable tourism than about ecological tourism, what we definitely have to deal with urgently is the issue of hotel certification in order to know exactly which hotel can receive a sustainability certificate based on the conditions that a hotel must satisfy. It is absolutely unacceptable and you mention it in the strategy in perhaps a more decent way than I am saying now, that the hotels we have on Plitvice Lakes, in Brijuni, do not satisfy the basics of actually certification based on sustainability, so there are neither renewable energy sources nor local food supply, organic food or sustainable farmed food, and it is a great pity that the entire tourist community that is gravitating towards these parks, but not only the touristic one has great consequences, adverse consequences and damages. I'd like to look back on this golf course. In fact, I think that Croatia has gone a completely wrong way and that today we would have a significantly larger number of golf projects that are needed by our tourism that instead of real-estate forging golf facilities, we started to try existing hotel facilities, let's say three hotels nearby in a way to stimulate them to go into realisation of golf projects and thus fill their hotel facilities throughout the season. It's a path they've chosen in Austria that today has one of the largest golf courses in all of Europe, and that's why I think it should also be one of the things to pay attention to. I would also refer to something that was often mentioned during the debate, which is the necessity of connecting green and blue Croatia. I think that it is necessary to connect both blue and grey, or black Croatia, if in this way we can talk about industry, because in building or restoring existing capacities of great benefit, our construction sector which has now fallen, which is why I think it is necessary to develop exactly those creative potentials that will contribute to making other sectors as useful as possible from tourism as a very attractive economic branch in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39290	Thank you very much. Replica, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39291	Thank you, Madam Vice President. She said in part that her colleague Holly was involved in this, so I insisted so much on that part of the monumental rent that helps traditional crafts and small businesses. It is also true that it would be good if you would connect blue and blue Croatia and have traditional agricultural production, organic production and on our islands that could immediately sell these products if you had a certain part of the maricculture that could be sold there is sold traditional products in Slavonia. It is also true what you said about the ecological standards of the hotel, and I absolutely agree with it because when I spoke, I pointed out that I am much more in favor of not so much... investment than the restoration of old things that can be realized with it. As for the audiovisual promotion you mentioned, you mentioned something about the city, I wasn't looking, you'll probably know that part better. I was thinking more specifically about movies like "I believe in love," the famous Notting Hill. When he made that movie the price of real estate at Portabello Street Market, it was one smaller neighborhood, they grew by 100% just because of the movie and the whole part became an elite part of the city of London today. Or let's say "La Vita e bella," more like this romantic one comedy, I didn't watch this movie that you mentioned, so one whole... city in Toscana became famous for it and has a terrible increase of tourists precisely because of it, so I'm not surprised that you who advocated so much why our reception court didn't mention this Beni here, which was filmed in our national parks than you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39292	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39293	Well, I have to admit, I'm surprised you haven't heard of Sex and the City and the connection between sex and the city with Dubai. Otherwise, one of the cities that exploits this marketing instrument is Las Vegas. I don't know exactly the names of the movies now, but it was a whole series of films, and what's the feature of these films is that the cities that finance these films are one of the characters so I can tell the main characters in those movies. And I'm sorry that here we have really attractive locations like Dubrovnik and similar that we haven't used this instrument before. Perhaps Dubrovnik itself does not have enough of its own money to use such an instrument but I believe that at the level of the state or Croatian tourist community there are certain means. But I'd depend on something that's crucial in this part. In order for you to have any policy, whether it is very good or something less good, to have strong financial instruments. And when we talk about certain hotel facilities that exist in national parks, which is on Plitvice Lakes and Brijuni, the fact is that it's financially quite a bit of an invasive procedure, which is a question of whether public institutions themselves could implement it, and I think that in this part of it, cooperation with private partners is necessary, and that powerful private partners, and it is the obligation of the state to set rules for such concessionaries to act on the basis of which they should act and that such concessionaries determine that the only way to implement this project is to guide it on the basis of sustainability criteria, and then we would have what is normal to function in national parks and not unfortunately the situation that we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39294	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39295	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Holly, with most of your debate, I'd agree. But honestly, I expected you to touch two topics, which is maritime good and tourist land, because all these stories we're talking about today until we solve these two problems, and only this action plan is a dead letter on paper. Also today, everyone in this House is afraid to mention the golf course as if it were a plague. But if we're talking about the development of tourism and then it's something that's simply a subject that needs to be discussed as well as all other topics. But when we talk about that famous example of sustainable tourism development, then we must also mention how many existing tourist facilities and tourist destinations, regardless of whether it is on the continent or whether it is on the islands, or whether it is about the coast, there is a problem with wastewater disposal. A large project of nearly 300m euros with a single investment bank gave up because cities, municipalities said their interest rates were too high. I think two or three cities are lucky to have stayed with these projects. I think Opatija is one of those cities and they solved that problem of theirs. We also talk about clean sea tourism, which is only one segment of this tourism, cannot talk unless we solve this problem. Same thing when we talk about marinas. Today someone here mentioned a marina on the northern Adriatic that if another 200 berths are built, that bay will simply be polluted and we can say goodbye to the entire bay. So I just think that all segments need to think. That's why this action plan that's been made, it's nice and good-quality. But when he touches someone's yard, then the minister defends his Athar as if he'll die for it, but when the good results are in tourism, then everyone likes to take pictures with tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39296	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39297	Well, fellow Shuker today there's a pretty big consensus between the opposition and the ruling in this part I agree with you and the fact is that in the government and you know it very well, at the end of the day, you've been sitting in the government, there's a certain way that I can say selfish care about the vault you're in, and then it's very much looked at in some closed kind of gauges. So I think there will be plenty more opportunities in this assembly to talk about both maritime goods and tourist land. I suppose the Ministry of Tourism will also come up with certain legal solutions in this part, but I disagree with you that during the debate on this strategy, golf has not been discussed. In my debate, I was talking about golf, after all, and my colleague Nadica Jelash was talking about golf and I don't think golf is any bogeyman, golf courses are in Croatia only need a question about how to realise these golf projects. The fact is that in Croatia we have gone to the realization of golf projects in a similar way as the Spanish who now have very big problems with certain golf resorts that are infamously failing and therefore it is my appeal to approach golf in a completely different way than one very good content that can enrich the tourist offer and extend the season but not exclusively as Libya for a real-estate business, which is unfortunately in Croatia fact. It's a very short Adriatic project you mentioned if I'm not mistaken, so as far as I'm concerned, more cities have realized wastewater purifiers. What bothered me about the realisation of these projects that didn't all go to 3 degrees purification and I think that when we move into these projects we have to look to have the highest standard that is ultimately the Eu standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39298	Dear fellow Josip Boric, please welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister with an associate. So here I am going to do a little strategy again and on private accommodation because unfortunately in the second reading of the strategy we didn't have a chance to fix something and I'm going to do a little bit more about it because I think it's really important, and that maybe this strategy didn't recognise it well enough because as much as we want to run away from it, this story creates a story about elite tourism about new hotel accommodation facilities about camps, etc. project private accommodation reduction. However, at one point this comes into conflict with each other within destinations. It's hard to tell here a story about the possibility of someone taking an arrangement for 1000 euros in 7 days in a nice and good hotel to get tired of the story that on the other side of the hotel you have 7 days for 300 euros. And then simply all of our tourist employees through the entire system of the Ministry of Tourism of the Tourist Community, local, state etc. to bring as many tourists to the Republic of Croatia as possible, and every season, we conclude that we have a clientele that doesn't have enough wage might be poor enough not to spend a lot of money and that everyone wants the cheaper part of that cheaper 300-euro accommodation in seven days. So that's where he comes through this strategy and for the next seven years in conflict. Is if we fail to raise private accommodation that carries 50% of all capacities we will within the right destinations say the real ones that have been for hundreds of years destinations from Opatija, Dubrovnik, Rab, Korčula etc. That I don't pick up all the Hvar to have a problem. We had on the privatization of Sunny Hvar and what happened next to the 5-star hotel were apartments of a lower category of smaller stars but cheaper. Those tenants also had a problem because they couldn't get enough people to meet their needs, but he had a problem and today he has one who owns that hotel because he can't reach the price. And that famous Zimmer Frei today is on a much higher level than he was 40 years ago when he left. Most of it is located categorized with three stars, rooms and apartments with two stars almost gone, one star is I think it only works in transit. The 4-star category also has some, and 5 can only get fairies. And there are now more and more especially if I can offer additional content such as swimming pool or other options within it. However, the state has also done something that it is now trying to escape from. In 2002, 2003, a credit expansion started towards these very small private tenants, they could get loans without a problem. They got into business, they let hundreds of thousands of new accommodation units market, and today the state says here and through this strategy, we're going to cut you down a little bit, or you're going to become a little less important. And these people still have to work because it's their property. They do not have the option of obtaining an HBOR loan of 2%, they do not have the opportunity to make a favourable debt but to raise commercial loans with interest rates of 9.8% etc. And then, of course, the state should offer something here and through this strategy. That's why I'm saying it because so far the state is just a little intervened. When conflicts were legal and illegal, then the inspectorate became involved, so few police, etc. So they all came into the same basket because before they could only be controlled by the ones that were legal, then it kind of evened out. Now you can also stamp illegal objects that are not allowed to rent. So we intervened a little bit in paying taxes with a cereal, so let's just say that we're going to tell the tourists' applications, etc. Especially this latest move to lift the line of entry into the VAT system which she somehow forced everyone involved in private rentals to report indeed everything physically and to come to an area. And that was all right. However, I think that these small tenants need a little more help from this government and every one, because if we know that only in 6 years between 2005 and 2011, the number of nights in private accommodation grew 50%, it is a clear message that this system is strong and that it can generate some of the benefits that we want from this tourism. And here again we come to the question of why something happens at... a moment. We had an incentive for success and just when it started when everyone was interested when it became a great interest of the state at one point in conclusion and now it's gone. Who came, and even today there would be hundreds and hundreds of interested in raising their own capacity. And now a little bit about the criteria of these projects that have been introduced I would say inserted here into this strategy because the minister said that there were no criteria that were going around some places. some kind of institution on its island. Why am I against it? Because Rab is an island with 9.5 thousand inhabitants and has 33 thousand 200 beds. A million 600 thousand nights 14% of Kvarner's tourism, the winner of all the awards in tourism that could have been won, and then it is not mentioned in this strategy in a single word. Then it's all before that, I don't know if I'm challenging anyone, not Gorski Kotar, not Lokva, not Chabar or any destination or local self-government unit. but that you have no option and you say yourself that this is the basis for withdrawing certain funds from EU funds we on Rab Island have nothing to call on. And that's why we might have been able to talk about these projects that you've led to say something. Because I'm going to mention something that may not have been heard around Rab today. within the units of local self-government on the island of Rab there is a Goli island. It's a story that attracts tens of thousands of visitors in tourism today and that it's totally devastated and destroyed. So they have nothing to see but the remains of the remains, and tens of thousands of people are coming. And it cannot enter as a project of importance into such a strategy. And then of course we always like to call or say so it's Croatian Alcatraz, it's something like that. On one side Alcatraz who sells his story, and the other naked island who can't sell anything, absolutely nothing. And all owned by the state, there are spatial plans, there are zones, there are interests, there are everything. And that's how we develop tourism. I think we should have had that chance. A little further from the Glog Island we have... with the same story of different vegetation, different features but something that every tourist will buy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, that would be his reason to come, say, to Rab. And now something here from this strategy, and it concerns the announcement that 100 floating hotels will be built. 100 floating hotels 100 million euros. That sounds nice, that's good. I'd like to ask when, in what way, who's going to give 100 million euros and where are we going to build it? Shall we go to Brodosplit, May 3rd, Ulanik or these small coastal or island shipyards? Will your cruises be made of wood or aluminium, steel? Will the state subsidize them? Is someone really going to be a good idea, like something we need that's already recognized and able to make it happen? Do we even have a shipyard that can make a wooden sailboat? What do we have? We do. How many can we make a year? Can we have 20? We probably can. That's one thing I say is a good story just out of this we don't see what, where and in what way. And in the end, only winter tourism. I think it's only mentioned here in a few places, i.e. Let's say now I don't know here we have a mountain, so winter, so rural, all of this gets mixed up so we have the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjellolasica. Not a mention except Platko, which is a proposal I believe in the Primorian-Gorski County. I'm sure it's an unrepresented mountain cot. Three let's say the already existing ski resorts of some kind in the formation of chelinbash, white hair, and another one I can't remember right now can't just resuscitate. This year we had almost 5 months of snow, we still have it on the sides that are far from the sun, and this strategy simply doesn't respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39300	Thank you very much. The replica of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39301	Dear counterpart Boris, I will look back on your part of the debate regarding private accommodation. I believe that in Croatia we can also develop the forms of tourism that are dominated by hotel accommodation and the forms of tourism that are dominantly marked by private accommodation, but that primarily depends on the location where we develop a particular form of tourism. And that is why I have warned in some way in my debate about the necessity of something so as to say more concrete tactical tools for implementing this strategy, because I think it is necessary to say exactly what locations we plan to develop which forms of tourism so that it can be installed in some way in future spatial plans with certain dimensions of that part of the realisation strategy. Because the fact is that there may be some locations, so to speak, may be rough and inappropriate for private accommodation, or for such a type of tourist accommodation, and where some more elite forms of tourism should be developed, while in some other locations I will mention, for example, the island of Pag, Novalja. I don't think guests, or tourists who go to Zrće, are exactly the kind of tourists who should have some high-class hotels and who will be satisfied with some decent private accommodation. So we need to know exactly in our strategy what locations we want to develop which forms of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39302	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39303	So I can agree in part with what you said, but again I warn that this strategy wants to organise support for hotel accommodation, camps, etc. It will also adapt the new Strategic Investments Act, etc. and that private accommodation has always occurred in the past 40 years in a way that has not been organized in its own way and has been created in areas that have already been inhabited, i.e. They just kept on developing. When we reach the area of spatial-planned documentation we should admit to ourselves that the boundaries of the islands along the coast are not building areas, that they are tourist areas. Not that they're yellow, but that they're purple. We do not want to admit it to ourselves, and all of us who deal with it live with tourists. We know what it looks like and there's no room, villages, municipalities or city on the coast that doesn't deal with it. So, everyone's dealing with it. And we didn't do it, I say we managed to solve it through space-planned documentation. They're on their own. They're saying credit-related. They were kind of let into this segment of credit borrowing because they had to become competitive, sell their product. And now that they've come to some stage of development they still don't have any help. This strategy does not offer them that help, and we had one say good program so it was abolished as soon as it began to be of greater interest to them. That's why it would be good to think about it, because only the possibility of getting a 2% loan is that you don't need to worry about that segment anymore. They will manage for themselves how they will survive and how they will continue to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39304	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica. Well, I think he'll tell you that in HBOR it's possible to get it from a fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39305	Who? Me and my colleague, Boric, we've been discussing this all day, but there are still unresolved matters because this is such a wide topic and I say it's really great how many of us are in this assembly. Look fellow Boric, you get on such a subject and it is sports tourism and Bjelalasica and probably all athletes and all those who love sports and were in government, all past governments in a certain way one wound in the heart. Because it didn't work out first because of some megalomanic demands, some big halls and pools to do what it is. However, honestly speaking I was the president of the basketball union, the basketball team was preparing for Belarus, not Rogla. And the boys didn't miss anything. It's great there, though. The Americans who stayed there at the same time, at the same time, the Grills threw a hammer, and they were thrilled with it. So, we have space. Honestly, I don't see why our football clubs would go to Turkey to prepare when they can do it in Croatia. And why wouldn't a practically complete northern Europe come from Istria to Makarska? But then we have to have air-conditioning halls, we have to have sports courts with suitable hotels that are close, but let's look at how many hotels we have from the 10th to the 5th month open. So, we have potential and capacity but what's the key thing and what you mentioned is did we determine what kind of tourists we have? Because someone who will pay in one 5-star hotel sleeps 200, 300 or 400 euros won't exactly agree to a 10 meters away on the beach being bathed by someone who pays for the accommodation of 15 euros. And that's something simple to take care of, and for this best example, some cities in the Primorje-Goran County where hotel companies have failed and where there has been a large apartmentisation, a large private accommodation which unfortunately is not even categorized properly and then foreigners come to one year's salary 30 euros super pleased, next year the same category of three stars pays 30 euros and goes super dissatisfaction. Therefore, there are simply certain things that need to be leveled, but I say every strategy is in good faith and so do we look at this strategy in good faith. I hope something comes out of good faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39306	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39307	Comrade Shucker, here I am, and we all want to help make this better, but unfortunately, we have no right to make amends, so at least let it be written down that we said what we were thinking. As far as sports tourism is concerned, here in our county of Primorje-Gorski, we have a motor-drum up on Grobnik almost in decline, finished, not working, and in the Gorski Kotar 3 ski resorts that are trying to form, however, they cannot begin to survive these 20 thousand people and begin to live on tourism in the area. And then a strategy that doesn't respect them at all. We have the Trieste in Chabra, we have the Chelsea in Mrkoplje and the White Hair in Vrbovska. These are even in some way supported by the state for some infrastructure. It's no problem to cross the woods and stuff. However, I simply cannot find an investor because the state does not want it to help them at one stage when they come to the end of the infrastructure needed to get in, they cannot find it. And of course the tourism ministry has to help. And as for the story of tourists, every tourist is good and welcome and we would like them to spend more than they spend, but private accommodation is again the one that in some way reduces the value of the organized hotel part where we simply come into conflict with ourselves. Anyone who has in Europe today, and Europe is in recession with some kind of holiday kuna, thinks of it as we do every month as we will continue and how we will survive. So they probably are, and that private accommodation is at a level, it's at a high level. There are many better apartments in private accommodation than many hotel rooms with 3 or 4 stars. And we have to admit that. Those people did their best. Sadly, if there is no concern and organized concern for them, they will again remain in the verse, and then we know what that means.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39308	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39309	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said so much that I would not want to replicate everything, but you also mentioned floating hotels, you mentioned tourist ships and you remember that debate on the Committee on Tourism regarding VAT to small boaters. Di, again, we're breaking into that trap that's happening to us here's that the Ministry of Tourism, on behalf of the government and in front of the government, is proposing a strategy, and the other ministries aren't paying for it. Like we talked about today for concert tickets or whatever. Same thing happened to us with the little boaters. Here is one very nice offer of Croatian tourism, regardless of what is planned here in the strategy they are allegedly willing to tax with such VAT on the sale of food and drinks on small ships which, of course, lead them to destruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39310	We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Tonka Ivčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39311	Here's the esteemed vice president, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As we all agreed so far, I will, of course, agree that the strategy should certainly be adopted and supported because its existence is a necessary prerequisite for a conscious and coordinated promotion of tourism as an economic branch in which the Republic of Croatia has comparative advantages and which contributes significantly to the overall increase in GDP. With the help of the strategy, if it follows in a consistent manner... ultimately and GDP can be marked by a higher percentage by 2020. The positive side of the strategy is also the fact that it shows the current state without any embellishment and points to all the mistakes and failures that are primarily related to lacks of clear vision and poor coordination. As one of the crucial disadvantages of the strategy, it cites the present understanding of tourism as a branch that is exclusively related to the coastal area and active in just a few summer months. The strategy therefore highlights key objectives and priorities in order to take advantage of certain unfavourable conditions as best as possible. It is important for the Republic of Croatia to develop tourism throughout the country throughout the year, not just seasonally. It is also necessary to develop the tourism offer of the Republic of Croatia as a globally recognizable brand, which should also make investment and domestic but more important to the other side more attractive. As regards the development of the tourism offer, the strategy highlights 10 key products, but given the fact that our country is located, it might be more realistic to set ourselves up for more priority products and thus take advantage of the comparative advantages of the available resources of those products that are better usable. It would also be constructive to include the valorising elements of past strategies, which would allow for insight into so many similar strategies of the Republic of Croatia which have so far given success or those that have consistently been implemented. I would like to thank the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Tourism for having the opportunity to actively participate in the creation of the strategy itself through the thematic sessions organised by the Committee on Tourism in this House. I am pleased, therefore, that nautical tourism has taken an extremely important place, and that we are exactly planning 15 000 new connections in the new marinas, 5 in the existing ports and 5 in the dry connection. Today in the Croatian islands we definitely do not have enough capacity to tie nautical boats, and in some places the number of overnight stays reaches, the number of overnight stays reached in hotels and private accommodation, here is what happens in my middle where almost nights, means on nautical vessels, the number of overnight stays in hotels are reached. What would put the greatest emphasis on legislative regulations and coordination in order to make the implementation of the strategy more effective. Namely, the current regulatory environment of the strategy defined as insufficiently functional, unscheduled and uncoordinated, as well as the approach to governance itself. Such a legal framework and lacks vertical and horizontal coordination make it difficult to carry out investment activities themselves, and in itself it is clear that without attracting investment in general capacity-building, it is almost impossible to implement it. And it is certainly necessary to pass the Law on a system of tourist communities as soon as possible, which would transform the existing system into a destination management organisation at all levels, as well as a brand new Law on maritime good and seaports, since good legislation on maritime good is the only guarantee for possible investments on the same level, and represents an extremely significant island coastal resource. It is important to pay attention to the coherence of tourism development strategies with other strategies adopted by other related portfolios. I therefore welcome the adoption of a state property management strategy that will soon be in the parliamentary procedure to activate state property and, from my point of view, put into operation a number of military facilities located on my island and which represent huge tourist potential. I therefore believe that at local levels, all viable investment projects that are in line with spatial plans should be listed and where there is no problem of unresolved property-legislative relations to make project ideas part of this strategy. Here I also appeal to speed up the resolution of the request for return of the seized property so that military properties can become a function of tourism development as soon as possible. When we talk about the effective flow of EU funds, what this strategy foresees is important to identify which projects can seek EU funds, and how much we can rely on it in view of our absorption capacities against these funds. We certainly need the help of the Ministry of Tourism here because small units of local self-government are not sufficiently educated or teamed up to withdraw funds from the EU. Finally, the strategy is certainly a document worth adopting in terms of a particular development vision. Certain instruments to which we should give a concrete answer to the question of exactly how to achieve which of the intended objectives can be further elaborated and modified in walking, assuming that the main measures envisaged by the strategy are properly implemented and that further systematic analysis of the situation in the reference economic branch is carried out. And finally, I hope that the minister will regularly inform us about the implementation of the strategy so that all together we can follow the objectives set out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39312	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39313	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague, all day here, we've been discussing strategy all day, and I haven't heard a lot of strategic commitment. You wouldn't want to study here and teach strategies when the axle forces said we'd open the east front, so they made a mistake. The strategy when Kennedy said we're going out in five years, the strategy when the Chinese said we're a communist country but we're going to market economy. The strategy is when the past Croatian government said we will not allow 70 meters of sea construction. We've come down here today to discuss details and bizarreness about something that's going to be in a 5-year-old, but here's the eight-year-old. That communist-socialist, and in 2020 how nice we will be, as we will achieve, said Mr. Minister 7 billion investments. Please be nice in 2020, so tell us, Mr. Minister, this government is in no condition to assess the decline in GDP in 5 months or 6 months, let alone the ability to assess what 2020 will be. Why don't you tell us, Mr. Minister, why it's not a built highway to Ploč, which would allow tourists to reach Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39314	Replica to my colleague, Ivcevic, not the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39315	Why not build a road to Split where tourists will go to Split. And as for these hotels, I don't mind making hotels. The private initiative saved Croatian tourism. We want apartments and not apartments in a negative sense, we want apartments, but we need to say on a plot of 500 meters so much construction, stone facades, a roof of tile, it's a facade, it's a strategy. From the Adriatic highway and every 100 meters, 3 meters through to the sea. So some decisions that would make a difference. We've agreed to discuss details, but there are no strategic ideas. These are all, this is one list of good wishes, killing nothing that would serve as the basis for the decision of the current policy tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39316	Thank you very much. You did not replicate your colleague, Ivcevic, but you debated and spoke to the minister. My colleague Boris Blazekovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39317	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Today we are talking about an excellent document, a strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020, a conceptual and contextual one excellent document. This is another of the documents that was particularly impressed by me, which was brought by the government of Kukurik after certain preparations, the addition of the government to the Kukurik coalition. The first was the state of affairs in the area of Minister Anka Mrak Taritash. A well-conceived and developed strategy from the clearly displayed situation in Croatian tourism today with an objective demonstration of the analysis of the competitive position through the over-sighted view of global development of the context to well-developed developmental principles, visions and strategic objectives. The strategy deals very competently with operational strategies, economic impacts and action plans. In its contributions, the strategy provides a detailed description of the measures taken by tourism policy and the perspective of investment projects. Since in this short time it is impossible to look back at all the points of the strategy I will only talk about some of the most attractive me. I hope I'll be back in due time. First of all, I would like to say that tourism in Croatia is, fortunately, an activity that is almost 90% privately owned and in past development, tourism has been more dependent on meteorology than on state and state incentives and is developing more independently, despite some times and despite some state-wide, completely wrong solutions, i.e. incredibly harmful state-wide inactions. This strategy simply changes the paradigm of the development of Croatian tourism. Secondly, I would like to highlight what Croatia has, and since it is important to repeat that as far as we can remember, I will read from the strategy memory bravo, "Croatia belongs to countries that attract visitors to more forms of its natural space and rich cultural historical heritage than quality, availability or diversity of newly created tourist attractions. Among the natural attractions are the most important location of the sea, the diversified coast and many islands and numerous preserved natural beaches that greenery, the forestity of many parts of the territory. In view of its overall surface, Croatia stands out with an extremely large number of tourist attractive protected natural areas and according to biodiversity is located in the European summit. The great potential in tourist undeveloped areas is tourist valorisation, areas of Danube, Sava, Drava, Una, Kupu, Cetina and other rivers, along lakes and other inland waters. In addition to the natural attractions connected to the sea such as the Brijuni national parks, Kornati, Mljet Croatia has a number of attractions related to the karst phenomenon such as waterfalls and arranged barriers of Plitvice lakes and river Krka, Velebit rocks, Ponor caves and other karst attractions, as well as a large number of unique, national parks and nature parks in the continental area such as Risnjak, Žumberak, Lonjsko polje, Papuk and Kopački ass. In several national parks there is an offer of hotel accommodation, Plitvice Lakes, Brijuni, Mljet. The wealth of Croatia's cultural historical heritage also makes a great force for the attractive foundation of Croatia. This is witnessed by a large number of cultural goods under the protection of UNESCO, such as the historical core of Dubrovnik, the Diocletian palace in Split, the Sibenik cathedral, the historic core of the city of Trogir, the Euphrazian basilica in Poreč and the Old Town field, and many other valuable cultural goods such as the Pula amphitheater, the historic core of the town of Hvar, the Stone Wall and a number of individual construction facilities in well-preserved historical sites of Zagreb and numerous other Croatian cities and cities." In particular, Croatia has more than a thousand castles, curiosities and fortifications in its rich, cultural, historical heritage, which has an exceptional potential for future tourism development, especially in the continental part of the country. In addition, Croatia has the most immaterial heritage protected by UNESCO in Europe while in world countries it is right outside China, Japan. Despite the exceptional wealth and abundance of these natural historical, cultural attractions are only their few tourist Valorised and included in the total destination offer. Unlike the natural attractions of cultural historical heritage Croatia is extremely poor in the newly created tourist attractions such as modernly equipped congress centres, thematic or entertainment parks, golf courses, visitor centres, high-quality theme routes and similar content of the tourist offer without which it is extremely difficult to establish assumptions for the expansion of internationally recognizable mix, tourist activation of continental space including coastal background space and the extension of the season. In Croatia today, the centres of all year-round mountain and sports tourism, quality cycling trails with the necessary infrastructures and structures of diving sailing centres and other facilities necessary for quality and long-term sustainable market positioning on the market of special interests. There I would add to the tourist offer is very difficult but still the small door is being breached by the entertainment industry. It is a world-developed industry that turns itself huge amounts of money but it is an industry that directly implicates a tourist catering offer in its fullness. Croatia unfortunately does not yet open the door except in particular cases and does not call in the context of the tourist offer of world, European and Croatian attractions of industrial entertainment. Thirdly, I would stress the importance of privatising and activating state property in tourism, so I will only read the strategies again. Unlike some other economic sectors, industrial branches where the lack of the privatisation process can be justified by the need to protect Italian national interests in the domain of tourism creation cannot possibly be the case. It is about economic activity, whose prosperity everywhere in the world is most directly linked to private entrepreneurship. Although it began nearly 20 years ago, the privatisation process of economic operators in tourism has not yet been completed. With the exception of information, the order on economic operators who, despite their operations and at extremely favourable locations, record below average business results and rarely loses, and therefore, particularly important to implement their privatisation in the shortest possible period of time, taking into account the maximisation of the overall long-term effects of privatisation. During the presentation of this strategy on the Committee on Tourism, a colleague from the SDP commented on the strategy told him that he liked the strategy in principle but that he did not see the reason for privatisation because it does not say that the state is a bad entrepreneur that is seen from the example of Deutsche Telekom, who is owned by the German state and is particularly successful in business. Apparently, the colleague believed, with the constant transmission of such incorrect data by the Croatian Labourists who, out of purely populist habits, first presented this completely incorrect data and more on the other hand. Deutsche Telekom is a private company in which the German state has 14.98% stakes. So the claims of Croatian Labourists who are constantly speaking against private entrepreneurship and argue that the state-led economy, therefore, is the claim that Deutsche Telekom is in the hands of the German state is completely incorrect. And that is why the right way to develop tourism strategy is to privatise and encourage the development of private entrepreneurship in tourism. And I think it's particularly important that sub-point 5.4 is the strategic development of human resources. Unfortunately, we currently have in Croatia an unusual and incomprehensible small number of quality tourist catering staff. According to my knowledge, the problem is simply bad schools, poor old-fashioned programs that are largely inappropriate for modern tourist hospitality. Very small and rarest and most attractive catering staff schools are more or less alone in more non-rofmal groups at informal courses. I think that the state should encourage the establishment of private tourist restaurants in close cooperation with the owners of tourism and catering facilities and allow the development of specialisations of the most excellent in the world's best quality tourist and catering facilities. This strategy is an excellent document and another indicator of the proper work of this government and the Kukuriku coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39318	Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39319	Your Honor, Madam President. My friend, you've read this introduction of these materials and nothing else. I don't know what the debate is, and the proof of that is the replica that you forgot to say that the Plitvices are on the UNESCO list, and you know why you forgot? Because simply who wrote these materials forgot it. So he forgot to write in the materials and you forgot to read it. That's one thing. I'm glad you're praising the private initiative but then agree with your Minister of Tourism, says hotels etc. and in some ways the apartment or private initiative is neglected. You know what's good about what happened to the apartment building? Because all the money that was earned remained in Croatia. Very little if any Slovenian or other Hungarians took to Hungary if they rented something wild, but the rest is in Croatia. And at the same time it's said that everything that's in the hotels is earned that is more or less out. If we're going to look at it that way then, Mr. Minister... through you and the minister of good news that so many apartments have been built in Croatia and that should be further developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39320	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39321	Well, I'd just like to say and beg you to point out to me these people who have been defending you for 20 years to arrange such a good country as you used to say what you've been saying all along. Please find me those who have defended you so that we can finally deal with them because then it'll be easier for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39322	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39323	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Blažekovic, when you mentioned this colleague from the SDP, he was right. There are tourism companies owned by the state that are very successful in developing which invest in their content that pay all the charges they have for both local self-government and the state that regularly pay salaries for 300 employees, which develop more and more every year and is not a burden of 52% of their ownership of the Republic of Croatia. Such a company is the Imperial Rab. The able leadership she feels and her destination that she feels and needs of the local population she has managed to preserve has already been a front of bankruptcy but has managed to preserve herself in the last ten years which some legislative proposals have allowed her to reprogramme her obligations that were short-term and long-term at favourable conditions to create a sufficient level of capital to continue to develop and it is now natural that she may be looking for a private partner but not each and not at any cost. And they have proven that others are not all in the same situation, perhaps hotels in Makarska are also working at the same level, but they have proved that state property is not an obstacle to a hotel house being able or unable to develop as the local population wants. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39324	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39325	You got me wrong. I was talking about the fact that a colleague presented an example that is completely incorrect, and it's Deutsche Telekom and I wasn't talking about a stake in some companies. Although we must admit your island is an absolute island from which you come is absolutely beautiful. I visit him every year with great pleasure and it seems to me that this particular company you're talking about may have been before and sought a private partner to be incomparably better developed today. And all the problems that this company has been going through I believe that you know a lot better than I do and I appeal if anyone listens from this company to find a private partner as soon as possible to develop, because it is the largest tourist company on the island of Rab, that Rab really develops into what it deserves, and that is one of the greatest potentials on the Adriatic and on the Mediterranean in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39326	We are continuing the debate, colleague Tatjana Šimac Bonačič.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39327	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Assistant Minister. So here from this strategy we actually see one quality analysis and on the other hand a state such as in Croatian tourism, on the other hand also a guideline that will lead us to the goal and that is a stronger development of tourism. The fact is that Croatia is located in 34 places according to the criteria of tourism competitiveness in the world, and the goal is actually to be somewhere in 20 places. What do we want with tourism? We don't need to repeat why we need it. We also just before, actually during the debate we often heard that this data is the tendency to increase hotel accommodation, that it is actually done against private accommodation. I wouldn't say that if that was it. I'll tell you the example we're working on in Dubrovnik, we're doing private rental education. Here last week was one of those educations where we learn about credit lines, we even learn language courses, business psychology, reporting etc. Therefore, this does not mean that we are thinking about increasing the hotel's capacity to work against private accommodation. As far as competitive status is concerned, I would single out a lack of innovative quality content for guests here. I think it's everywhere. Then insufficient investment activity and what is important we heard today in discussions it is a classic marketing that has been done so far. As far as marketing itself is concerned there is, in fact, an emphasis on redefining the tourist community system where I believe it is very necessary because their task is actually to design new offers, i.e. new destination products. There is a lack of differentiation and products and services, and tourist communities should in fact still work to connect public and private, or civil stakeholders in tourism. I am very glad that today my colleague Mesic mentioned the games of the throne in Dubrovnik because in this way Dubrovnik can be very advertised. When you look at now there is a third season of representatives of the Croatian Tourist Board and our Dubrovnik Tourist Board going and they actually designed it with the help of sponsors, they realized the stay of journalists from Spain one TV team. In this way they even more popularized this series, or the city of Dubrovnik, where it was recorded. I think this series is very popular in Spain, and as far as Spanish tourists are concerned, they should not be spoken of if they are actually important for the Croatian market. Thus, the arrival of these journalists who participated both in front of the prime ministers and at dinners that filmed more streets of Dubrovnik and thus depicted them. In Spain there is a large audio visual actually marketing the city of Dubrovnik. Also, their airline, along with our one hotel house, made a prize game to visit Dubrovnik. And before each extension of the series, one show will be shown where the city of Dubrovnik will certainly be shown for a few minutes. Here I think that we can work in tourism and more when tourists come to us we can do more in terms of going to the streets, or locations where this series is actually recorded. Here is one way of very positive audio-visual promotion but I think we should brand even stronger, i.e. identify a particular product based on which we differ in Croatia, which makes us more competitive than other countries. And I think we actually have a lot of it. And so I wonder if we even know what we can offer, I wonder if we know, let alone how we're actually going to make an offer about what we have. That's why I think the development of marketing is very important in this tourism strategy. In this development of tourist offer, when 10 key tourist products are listed, I think you can say a lot about each of them and that these are huge potentials that adorn our Croatia. In this way, of these 10 key tourist products, I think a good tourist product can be achieved in every part of our country. I mentioned it a little before Dubrovnik, and now I'm going to do it one more time. I think it is also the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County which characterizes precisely valuable primary tourist resources, which are the cultural and historical heritage of natural value, and of course the geographical position. However, this is when we talk about the primary tourist resource I can say that it is actually a relatively competitive advantage, because if we do not manage well then it cannot go into absolute advantage. In fact, Dubrovnik has recently recorded a constant increase in the number of arrivals and overnight stays. When we also analyze business gatherings, then we see that there is an increasing number of business gatherings held in Dubrovnik, and that is why I am very glad that in the strategy you listed Dubrovnik as a city convention where it will be built, the convention centre is actually planned as a convention destination. When we look at Zagreb, these are mostly domestic business gatherings while Dubrovnik, in fact, because of its attraction, can say is the headquarters of foreign business gatherings. With the analysis of cruise tourism in Dubrovnik we see in fact that every year we also have an increase, in Dubrovnik every year we actually visit about a million passengers. However, I think that we have also done very well by organising a reduction in overbooking. So it was known that in one day there were 7, 10 thousand people, but now it's all down to the fact that one ship was organized in front of Lokrum, the other in Georgia, so that somehow the number of tourists from the cruisers was out. As far as cultural tourism is concerned, we mentioned it today. I think that's where Dubrovnik predicates as a great potential. Sometimes too much relying on the existing cultural heritage, however, it is not a miracle. It is UNESCO's city, and whatever new work starts again, new locations, birthing areas and new niches in tourism, etc. are being reopened. Here, I think we will actually apply to this competition city capital of European culture and I think Dubrovnik deserves to win so that 365 days would have the opportunity to show this UNESCO city, or that would be the ultimate promotion for Croatia's tourism as well. However, here I must say that Dubrovnik would take advantage of its potential, which I have now partially listed, not to say we have Dubrovnik-Neretva County and rural tourism, etc. I have to say that it should actually be on the state side, and that's connecting highways, multiple airline lines, then it's a grant of granting for individual projects, and on the other hand, foreign investment could be helped when we talk about economic-social effects. I think that both should actually increase so that all that potential could be exploited which Dubrovnik provides. And I can finally say that our goal everywhere and in Dubrovnik is still to have a tourist year instead of a season year, and since tourism is a multidisciplinary category, it is looking for a secure functional management platform, in fact, to look at all parts of that platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39328	Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39329	Thank you. So when it comes to the promotion of Croatia abroad, it was really the same year when I was in the United States and Canada more than once, it was a pleasure to see every little thing on CNN commercials for Croatian tourism, and it was really nice to see the video that was spinning a lot, a lot of pictures in that relatively short video. But what you haven't thought of, I think it's actually our resource, it's just our products through tourism. We insist on the subject, I think that this strategy is not sufficiently processed or is actually minimally based on whether or not we and how we can actually integrate Croatian products from all over Croatia into this tourist product that we are selling together. It is a special issue of Croatian production. Here is an example that has now actually appeared to me during this debate, so the man writes, last March 7th Minister Jakovina and Mayor Ivanić-City open its 20 million kuna plant private investment for the production of liquid pasteurized eggs for the first time in Croatia for tourism purposes. But a year later, a man fails to enter the hotel sector in Croatia because it is covered by importers in Croatia. And the company is going towards its end, the investment is failing because there is no interest in Croatia. And we do not find interest that Croatia's production, whether this or some other or fifth or seventh actually enters the tourist product competitively, but if they prefer something to import it so remains and so is the story actually from the beginning of the stone, from bricks, from the egg to the egg to the fruit and to those cans of the unfortunate and to everything that actually makes our income and the good part of that income we are actually losing because they are mostly or to a good extent import products not what is made in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39330	Replication response, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39331	Thank you very much. You've noticed a colleague well, so it turns out that tourism is multifactorial and we have to look at it on such a wide platform as a base. Since I stressed that Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, has huge potential, so I may not have mentioned agro tourism, or eco tourism because when you look at the wine from Peljesac, from figs, from clams, from all the products from Neretva, it is simply an area where we can meet the needs of tourism in the south. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39332	Thank you very much. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39333	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I also think that a strategy for tourism development should be adopted as a strategic Croatian policy. This material, which is in front of us, a strategic document, I would say after an introductory presentation of the existing and current state in the tourism of resources further speaks about what kind of Croatian tourism we want in 2020. There's nothing to complain about. So in these 8,9 points we want from the ecologically responsible development, institutional deregulation, authenticity and creativity, so successfully differentiated Croatian destinations from other destinations, production for tourism, culture, quality. All this is to strategic goals, which is 7 billion euros in investment, 22,000 new employees, 14.3 billion euros in spending. It's all good and sounding good is just a question of whether and how to implement these measures that the strategy has foreseen and whether we will succeed in doing what we want to do. I'll look back here on a few topics or areas. Here is the first talk about 7 billion-euro investment, and I think I'm about to build about 200 thousand new beds. But what's important here is to say that it's far easier to invest and far easier to build buildings, build new beds but it's much more challenging and more difficult and although these are strategic definitions I don't know whether it's well enough worked out and whether there will be enough good measures to achieve it, which is to achieve more nights or in a longer time period in already existing capacities. Let's not forget if we're just building new facilities to build buildings we'll get to what we least want, and that'll be even more concrete and even more capacity that's going to stare at empty 10 months a year. So the first and most important challenge in the development of Croatian tourism in my opinion is to exploit existing and new capacities for more than 2 months a year, which is the current average. Hotel facilities yes, but certainly further improve the quality of private accommodation and support private accommodation because let us not forget that this is already a common way of behaviour and that our people in coastal areas have learned that this is theirs, this tourism is their life. What we notice, I will now move on to this final part of the strategy where some projects are concrete, but where concrete measures are being taken. First of all, I want to say that I think that some of these measures have no place in the strategy at all, and that's what I've already said, and that's what I've been saying, and these are the amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, amendments and additions to the Tourist Law, etc. and these laws should have already been amended, and they certainly don't need a strategic document, and they don't, in my opinion, need that place. When I look at these, this project specification as perspective locations of investment projects, then I would notice a few things, and above all, that these identified projects are unresponsed with projects from the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds that coordinate the process of preparing key projects for financing and structural funds, and where some projects have already received technical assistance to prepare the tender documentation, and these projects are not mentioned at all in these perspective locations of investment projects. I will speak from the point of view of Zadar County from which I also come from the City of Zadar, so these are about the project, the project Holy Hill and the archaeological and tourism park Aseria new so they are not here. And so I ask again the question that we don't know by what criteria, whether the regional level has been consulted at all, whether they have been asked, whether these projects have been negotiated with them or if someone has simply and by what criteria these perspective projects have been defined. It is also an unusual regionalisation and strategies, so on the northern Adriatic, southern Adriatic and continental Croatia according to which criteria and how, and we think that in some other way we should connect those parts. So, as they are now, in fact, economically connected. Let's say we think that the Central Adriatic, as far as Zadar and Zadar County are concerned, should bind Zadar County, Sibenik with Lika and the hinterland where there are already parks of nature and tourist tradition, and infrastructure and connection and orientation of each other. What I also want to say about the islands. In this strategy, islands are hardly even mentioned, almost not mentioned. And we had the Island Act, we have sustainable island development programs, it's one of the most qualitative and valuable resources, ecologically not yet polluted, clean, it's our pearls. However, they are hardly mentioned in this strategy, not mostly small islands that this tourism means life and sustains in some way. I'm talking about the Zadar Archipelago about Silba, Olib, East, etc. There's nothing to say about their connection, about a question that's almost forgotten, that's water supply, that's draining, building, maintaining ecological balance, building these waste water treatment devices, to keep what's a little bit more clean. Here's what I really don't see. The concept of nautical tourism, in these projects is completely bypassed by Zadar as the center of the development of megayachting, completely unclear and simply unacceptable why there is no Zadar in nautical tourism and in this yachting tourism. Secondly, why there is no Zadar in congress tourism, so congress tourism is intended exclusively for Split and Dubrovnik. By what criteria, how and why Zadar already has an existing infrastructure, therefore the congress destination has been recognised and the university is constantly held in Zadar, and I do not understand that it is not, that Zadar is not recognised as the destination of congress tourism in this strategy. As far as Zadar is concerned, it is not even recognized as an educational centre, although it is a university in Zadar, although the university has a study of tourism, it has five regional educational centres. However, there is no mention of it here in a single word. What's in this strategy here is very broadly envisaged it's golf, absolutely personal I'm not against building a golf course. tourist clientele and should be built but golf is exclusive content. He's looking for an elite environment, he's a great consumer of water. Golf is also a potential pollutant in terms of pesticides, etc. and you need to be careful here, not go from extreme to extreme since we now have very little or almost nothing golf courses to now predict them again with this strategy in such a large number. So here I warn of certain caution that nothing goes from extreme to extreme too much but I certainly think it should be supported. Here I am especially repeating the question, how and by what criteria have this document found perspective locations of investment projects? Is the regional and local level consulted? Did they run their projects? And what about those projects, and these are very much about tourism, and these are island port projects, for example for coastal construction, which are related to tourism that have already been prepared, are approved in EIB 3 and have gone untraced after banks have already accepted them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39334	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39335	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. While we here in front of this full assembly are discussing a strategic document in Zadar, a press conference was held by the President of the Island Assembly, Mr. Denis Baric, and he said at the conference that he would have knowledge that he would collect the ferry for the islands from 1.6% to 173%, so since he did not speak to the government's representative, then through you I include the question of the Minister is that true or is this just an indication that the problems of this strategy may be being achieved through a lot of ministries? If it's not true, then I think that both the ministry and the third ministry should be denied because it certainly will negatively affect all the islands because I say here's a map, for example. From Zadar to Iž or to Sali will collect 127% or be in one direction 40 kn so if this really happens then this strategy will practically happen before it falls into the water. Because talking about the development of tourism on islands, and raising transport to this level when you need to give for a four-member family and for a car more money than you need to give for 3.4 nights, then every story about the development of tourism on the islands falls, and as a reason for this being stated and since this happened in the budget then I did report to the replica, that they announced the acquisition by the foundation of a concession tender, but since the state budget reduced the fee as aid to liners for 35 million kuna. Well, I sincerely hope that since you mentioned how cut off Zadar is by the fact that a city that has 4, 5 marinas is not at all seen as some kind of nautical center as yet to be cut off if these prices rise. Then there's really a question of what's going to sail tomorrow from Luke Gagenica towards the Zadar Archipelago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39336	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39337	Thank you very much. Well, unfortunately, it's going to float from Luke Gagenica, which is very difficult to say since this government hitched off the project, which was the main development project in Zadar. We expected Zadar as well as Croatia so many useful things but now I don't have time to answer all of them. So of course they would collect ferry tickets for the reason that they were always cheaper for citizens than the real cost because they were subsidized from the state budget. It's the politics of the islands. After all, we have the Island Act, we have sustainable island development programmes, and that's why I'm surprised, and maybe that's why there's no island in this strategy because the islands aren't going to do anything and help, and it's these islands that are dying, demographically, economically. They can't handle the full cost of transport to the island unless the state is going to help them. We talked about it a lot, and I also talked about not subsidizing passenger transport enough. The question is the price of freight transport, so the price of freight transport if it's high then are high prices in shops on the island. There are old people with pensions and must buy groceries that are often twice as expensive as on land and in the city. Therefore, that is another reason why I warned that we should have a special place in this strategy in relation to the development of island tourism. What will happen now, and certainly will happen if the subsidies are lifted it will be I would say killing for island tourism because of course someone would rather stay on the coast and stay five days longer than going to the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39338	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39339	Thank you very much. Comrade Lovrin, you've noticed there's no island, there's something but it's so small and insignificant that it's as if it's gone. And as far as price increases are concerned, it's a logical sequence of all the events that we warned about when the budget was being made. Then they said it would be great, that everything was going well. Now there's 40 million missing, break into the end-user who likes to drive to the island, pay 20, 30 and 100% more, and thing solved because there's 40 million kuna missing. Now comes the tourism minister who needs to have strength and say you can't do it because it makes it harder to implement the tourist season and islands become uncompetitive and only have 200 thousand beds. And you wondered there was no Zadar. I've asked myself no Rab, these are tourist destinations. But there is Rijeka, there is a river that has one 30 or 40 thousand beds, so there will be yachting tourism, marinas, I don't know where, for mega-yachts, I guess, below Brajdice or I don't know where further, so these former industrial inactive plants of Rikard Bencic, Hartera empty warehouses of Luke Rijeka, etc. It will suck up hotels and resorts, and we who have millions of overnights need nothing more than what the recent prime minister said because we have everything. I don't think that's the strategy's task, and with these projects, it was an unserious attempt to show that something could be done, and in fact, a lot of this is actually going to stay here for the last seven years just to be written down somewhere and nothing ever happened. And unfortunately, those who have an opportunity like Rab to reach EU funds under this document will not be able to get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39340	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39341	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, this is what I personally always think, and I say that the government that runs a country must look at problems completely, and not every ministry can do its own house. So when the finance ministry runs out of money in the budget it will take off subsidies there, then the Ministry of Tourism will not be important to it because it will deal with other important destinations by their assessment, an assessment of more important, so the island law will probably stay in the air and hang because it will not know what it will be implemented by the ministry but will also be abolished because it doesn't have to do so only because it is the practice of this government that simply laws that they don't like and need to give money, says they won't be used by certain ministers and they don't need to be abolished. But here you are, well you said it seems like you threw away something ominous or something, but we don't find the criteria for selecting these projects to eat it by who likes it. Here at these military facilities I said what would be expected to be the state's care for those small islands that are far away and so difficult that I will not say to be extinct, die daily, and then make sure that there are such small islands that are destroyed and devastated, and with not too much investment, they could be put into operation if nothing could at least be offered to the market. But I personally know that there is such an object on Molato, I know there is another object on Silby owned by the Republic of Croatia. For 20 years, nothing has happened to him or been offered on the market or encouraged by someone to invest in them, so no one cares or somehow seems to be completely forgotten. And if local units were asked what their thinking about the development of tourism in their territory was, then it certainly wouldn't have happened like it couldn't have happened for Zadar to fall out of yachting tourism and congress tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39342	We continue the debate of colleagues Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39343	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I would first welcome the government and tourism ministry's efforts to adopt a tourism development strategy by 2020. Since it is evident from the strategy that the emphasis was placed on the reconstruction of the devastated hotel accommodations I will talk about the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County because there are a lot of these facilities there in this state. In the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County we have many devastated tourist facilities, some of them damaged during the Homeland War. Unfortunately, all of us are the most favourable investment period in tourism not only in Croatia, but in the whole Mediterranean from 2003 to 2009 the former government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Privatisation Fund have simply slept through, especially as regards the tourism portfolio owned by the Republic of Croatia. And not only did they sleep through the offer of investment in tourism but they allowed further devasting of the bad governance of hotel companies. At the time, they were engaged in small, large, and who knows which other maestro. During that time, they destroyed the entire destination of the facilities in the areas of Konavala, Dubrovnik, part of Pelješac and Korčula. When we know that the facilities on Koruchula are thousands of those that have been devastated, we know that in the Coopers 2,000 objects that have been waiting for 20 years, nothing has been working on them, we know that the hotel... that about 800 of them are still unrenewed, we know that Orlando is more than 500 beds unrenewed. This all comes and worries because the attractive former military resort of Kupari for more than 20 years has stopped intact, so it still stands there ruins. We're wondering what the previous government was doing in that direction? We wonder how much money has been lost for as a state and as a local community in that period because a 20-year period is not a small period? We talk a lot and they talk a lot like it's not ours. How can it be heard that the building in Kugarima, the value of its reconstruction, cca 250m euros. It's not an easy-to-refuse asset, but unfortunately it still stands so free. Apart from Kupar we have Hotel Platt and there are devastated facilities. With Coopers, hotels Plata, Maestrola,... Korčulas that have not yet been privatised and have some major difficulties in business itself today. I can conclude that in hotel Korucula, Orebic, former military Coopers, Perna and others unprepared great tourist potentials that deserve much more support and that the state had to take much more care of it. The solution should also be acceptable to the local community through additional employment, extension of the season and guests of higher wage power. I must also thank this occasion at the Ministry of Tourism, Finance and others when they have tried now in a pre-war deal to save what is to be saved. As well as the Hotel Korčula, the hotel company of Korcula, which is significant for one city, an island because this is where the island's inhabitants are most employed today. So it's constantly employed has about 150 and another 200 seasons to 250. I think we're on the best track to try to get life back in that company with the additional efforts of a strategic partner to be found and to move in that direction. Today I said, I hope, although late, with a bad investment climate for tourism in the Mediterranean market, that this approach to the problem will allow the Ministry of Tourism to further develop these destinations. I believe that, especially for the south of Croatia and distant Croatian islands, the problem of transport connection should be further processed in another document of the ministry, especially now that we hear stories that will collect tickets. We all know these are the stories being thrown, we all know that in the season they collect tickets on ferrys, that guests so far when we had guests paying for the 4-member family all the time since 2010. I mean about 1400 kuna Vela Luka-Split. Now it's paid, now we pay the islander 440, guests pay twice as much, and every year in the season it's that price. And normally, there's a pick-up to be thrown. Yes, it must be collected, as you have mastered, which you have done well to imagine because it is not easy in a year and a half to correct the correct wrong path that has been done. We hear the projects are being neglected somewhere. So let someone else develop a little. I come from a place where there's no more water, no more water nowadays. Now the effort is to get all the population water, gentlemen. And let others develop a little and don't envy it. We don't have water because the SDP where I've been in power for 19 years is why we don't have water. If it's the culprit, it's my fault my place doesn't have water. And I don't think it's right for someone to be kicked out of the Tourism Development Strategy, something to degrade this strategy right now, I think that the strategy is so wide that we can all find ourselves inside and that the potential for development and the future of tourism, I think we're both isolated and I mean complete coastal. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39344	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39345	Your Honor, Madam President, you were saying that 20 years were lost. My friend, you don't live at all in today's day, I mean this century's time and not even a part of the last century. What are you talking about? You know that Croatia was attacked, survived a terrible war, the destruction that occupied a third of Croatia, a third of Croatia, but the result were refugees who filled all our hotels from Dubrovnik to Istria. Well, the refugees were at the Lion Hotel until five years ago. Do you know where the Lion Hotel is in Split? Five, six years ago, they were the last refugees in the hotel. What 20 years are you talking about? Where could you go with those refugees? You should have built them houses. Croatia had to build 100,000 houses, 100,000 buildings and did not receive US aid as Germany in the light of Marshall's plan. Its accumulation depended on loans. They were refugees in hotels and most of these hotels were made, and thank God from Dubrovnik to Istria arranged. Most of these hotels were fixed and made and what should not be done. We need to realize that military facilities because the military is one rigid structure in every country and so in this Croatia, and the Ministry of Defence is one rigid structure in every country and also in this Croatia. I think it was rigid that ministry and that it wouldn't leave these military facilities and the government as above the Ministry of Defense had no power or didn't think it was necessary to push harder. If it was me, I'd have pressed harder, so far it would have been turned into civil objects and used. I admit that, or I don't think there was enough flexibility. But Racan could have done it in four years. So why didn't he do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39346	Thank you. Replication response, Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39347	My colleague and in your discussion, we know that you are in lost time, that you do not know where we are talking and the debate that is being debated, as it is today. We know that the Coopers, there were no refugees in them, during the aggression on Dubrovnik they were torn down and could have come to them when that part of Croatia was freed in Plata hotel which remained torn down after and destroyed that there were no refugees in them and I think you call what Racan did not do, the government of Racan. You're really at the time of this, I think the government that you were your member of the government was not well that you weren't, but she couldn't figure it out, she was watching other things was more interesting than restoring hotels and tourism for this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39348	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39349	Thank you very much. Comrade Marelic, as far as the price of these tickets is concerned, you said that we're hitting on each other, that we're throwing it in and that the season is coming and that it's normal. It is not normal because these prices are appreciated if this is what the data from the Agency for Line Coastal Secondary Transport from Split are at the head of which is the future candidate for mayor of Split. And if it's written by the agency, then I guess it's official. It's 170 percent somewhere, and it's 30% somewhere. 170% on 20 kuna is not 54 kuna, and 20% on 400 kuna is maybe 80 kuna more, so it can vary from line to line. However, the general message is you'll be driving more expensive, and you islanders will be driving more expensive because this government doesn't care about the islands and it's shown in the budget as well. There are 40 million kunas missing for those lines. Competitions are now scheduled. Competitions can no longer be covered if there is no money, because no boater wants to work with a minus. That's the truth. And the general policy you've been condemning for the past eight years has just been gracious to your island. You've got a 35 million kuna pool as the only city, as the only island that has it as a closed pool that has enabled the development of sports. You've got a restored home of health, a water supply system of I don't know how to clean up all the way to Blato, so all those other facilities that have been working it's over 250 million kuna in eight years. You're not gonna get that 250 million kuna to rule for 10 years from this government because those islands don't even perceive it. We have two programmes that don't work at all for EIB3 and EIB2, and the CEF4 hasn't finished yet, even though it should have. And every chief, the mayor who comes to the ministry gets returned with a story, wait for the EU funds, so what you catch, you'll do it, and if no one is to blame. It's the only truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39350	The reply to the replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39351	... Unfortunately, we came for a bag that was empty. [[Specially enabled.]] And I think this government is making every effort to make it, you know how much you've left behind. As for investment and water, we don't have it yet in places on the island of Korčula. As far as card-gathering is concerned, there's a line, Mr. Boric who's cheaped the cards. The agency's proposal is to cut the price by passenger tickets, reduce now to the agency's proposal, and you have to collect tickets each year in the season. It's, uh, tourist tickets that gather.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39352	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39353	... You invited us, you appealed to us not to be envious. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] You were probably thinking about Zadar and what I was saying that others are developing. We are certainly not envious, but we cannot see that some projects that are finished and ready, some projects that have been implemented under very favourable conditions, such as the Port of Gaženica, which had secured credit funds under such conditions under which no one will ever again have from the European Development Bank and the German Development Bank, that these projects are being suspended and that, for example, in Rijeka, you are at least invited to talk about who is in power and what is being done. So, and I'm telling you now where SDP is in power, and that's Rijeka exclusively for the development of Rijeka harbor and insurance so that there could be a port for wintering cruisers. At the heart of this project is interrupted, the project is launched by one of the most important projects in Zadar and an important project for the Republic of Croatia. We are not envious because it may seem to you that Zadar has received something very much, and Zadar has had an extremely capable local authority, so he has done a lot of things, and in the same time, for example, Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County of that HDZ government has received multiple amounts of all possible projects. I'm not going to tell you that EIB 3 that had completed projects, the funds provided were frozen all projects where HDZ is in power in local units amongst them and projects that are extremely important both for tourism and for the ecological sustainability of the island. But your government is the one who, when she was handing out funds thinking that Zadar got a lot of Zadar, assigned zero to county roads that didn't happen in history.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39354	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39355	My colleagues, I had no idea I mentioned Zadar. I didn't mention one place, so I didn't, if you're up to something, it's your private business. So you're feeling it. Next projects in 2012. If we're not mistaken, look a little bit, and I'm well aware because in all the ministries with my colleagues, the mayor and our colleagues were closed doors and the SDP was in power. Why? Because the projects, they respected all the projects that had already begun and were nominated by your government. And they all were, the others weren't. They couldn't make it, and that went. So it's not, it doesn't match that those projects are closed. I don't think it's correct to say, and what else is said to allow others to develop. Because someone learned to take a lot of it, and someone was happy with a small amount of it. That's why it wasn't a game of local government, it was a government. Unfortunately, that's how they acted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39356	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Mile Horvat and his 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39357	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. We're probably all tired of this long-term debate, but tourism is probably one of the most important branches of our country, so they're big and they're expectations and it's clear that then the debate about it is long. The strategy that you have proposed here is a good text, one of the more quality strategies that we have had to analyze here. We think it's a well-done analyst. So, the state of affairs of today is recognized and the plan as it is, it is. He's ambitious. Will that happen by 2020? Many factors will influence this strategy to be realised. I think it was also one of the remarks that action plans were as a means, or tools could be more concrete in some things, but now it's expanding the debate. The strategy as it is, in any case, I suppose it had to fit into the Europe 2020 strategy because the European Commission has prepared the EU Development Strategy for the next period, more precisely by 2020, and I assume that this strategy also coincides with this document, with the frameworks of this document. So the three main priorities of the EU are in this strategy, smart work means development and growth of a knowledge-based economy, sustainable growth means encouraging efficient use of resources, all resources and inclusive growth of the high-employment economy. These are some general specifics, but I think that's a good one of the directions in which this strategy should go. So from this can be concluded and from a lot of debates there, the conclusion is not just the sea and the sun to have efficient tourism. That is why we also said in our debate that we think that a key branch, tourism as a key branch, other than apartmentisation should be a generator and other things, which is the production of food, especially healthy food, is a sustainable production throughout the year, it is the possibility of the entire households in the OPG system at the service of tourism. So it's a high-end out-of-board consumption, too. That is why we think that the strategy must strengthen the focus of its interest on creating assumptions for strengthening the tourist component and beyond the coast. He spoke of it in a broader way and a fellow professor. Popov. We think it's actually a key thing from the position of us coming from the continent. In addition, this matter should not be left to the local self-government units as a strategy, because units of local self-government are not capacitated to deal with such large procedures and we think that the state should have one more mature and different strategy towards the development of tourism on the continent. I'm going to say a few examples here, they were talking about continental tourism. We from those eastern counties, more specifically from Osijek-Baranja County, can say the following: The Danube River is all the largest European river, but the Danube River is in Hungary, Austria and Germany a source of very pro-pulsive and very rich tourism. Cruisers, what the cruisers on the Adriatic are probably less than we get, but the cruises are also on the Danube River. We don't have a chance to consume such a single thing, we haven't created a single port with us on the Danube. We have three attempts at Vukovar, Almash and Batini, the question is when will it end? But an entire tourism industry in Germany is based on cruise tourism through the Danube River. So that's one potential we've never really talked about. Even neighbouring Serbia did better in the whole thing, so it took advantage of the Danube and that kind of tourism better and better quality than we did. Rural tourism, I think we don't have to go far, we can only refer to Austria, a small country that has no sea but has created such a network of banjski tourism high-quality Banjski tourism resorts and tourism small pensions that involve family households and all of them live on it and some data say they make almost the same foreign exchange income from this tourism as we do from our Adriatic. Wine roads, we know that the wine roads are the most attractive and the biggest tourist effect has won in Istria, everything remains in the crops. But we near us in Hungary have wine roads from which Hungary created a brand, a world brand and a source of big tourist capital. We have, they have Lake Balaton and the data suggests they have more foreign exchange inflows per year in billions of euros than that, from Budapest to Balaton as lakes and from wine roads than we have from our tourism on the Adriatic Sea. Dirt ass is something to talk a little bit about when it comes to parks of nature. He had about 30 to 35 thousand visitors annually, but the pearl of European ornithology, so no one in Europe has that capacity as we do, has any hotel content. There is some private initiative, and all this remains on the attempts of some family economies beyond which neither the state nor the more significant tourist community nor people can cope with this whole story as people on the Adriatic can manage. Our hunting tourism, which was once next to Romania, was the first in the world. Now we're where we are. The question is how many countries through their systems, through the Croatian forests, were interested and how much they invested in the development of hunting tourism. I'm not going to analyze it that's a different story, but the fact that we're far, far below the level of reputation and image we had in that branch 20 years ago. So we definitely think that the sea with due respect for full consideration of the integrity of tourism, the importance of the sea, the coast, etc., but it is not and should not be the only form and priority form of tourism. That's not good. We think we're missing out on the possibility of capacitating and positioning in a different way. These countries I mentioned had, were forced to find an alternative to tourism because they had no sea, so they brought to perfection these things that I was now talking about and made very significant foreign exchange revenues. Maybe it's some kind of guidance and some kind of experience that we need to run this thing. We think that projects on the continent should be monitored more strongly, better quality by the state and through money, of course, through these media approaches that have been discussed. Because I'm the capital that's a little bit bigger, which is more pulsating, he'll go to sea on his own, go to shore, and there doesn't need any special stimulation of the state. We need the state's help. We need our local governments to help the state that those projects that we are ready to do and that when the municipality is exhausted on a single project, the state will accompany it into realisation. We have an example of the Vrhovina municipality that has a very ambitious plan to create a ski resort in its two-way area. The projects were made, the municipality financed it. With great pain because of course there is no fiscal capacity to do so and now it has to be done. There is therefore an exceptional possibility in the continent and in the coast and in the continental part of Croatia that this branch of tourism, apartment tourism, sea tourism, on the coast can be fully qualityd with these other facilities. I don't know if I've made it, I've contributed something to this debate. Anyway, we think the strategy is going in the right direction. We will support the strategy. And I think someone mentioned at the end to say golf courses, golf tourism. We in Baranja would be very happy if someone offered us a quality solution and said here's a golf course with 12 holes, golf courses. We'd accept it without any special politicization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39358	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the final word, Minister of Tourism, respected Darko Lorencin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate and the fact that tourism is the sector which has a certain degree of competitiveness in its economic structure in the Republic of Croatia, I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to discuss this topic in this place. This strategy in the first row is one summary, is one concentrated material where through the debate it has managed to notice that most of you have asked for more detailed, more concrete and similar. If we had gone to follow all these requirements, we would be on material between 300 and 500 pages today and the purpose of such a document would have been lost. However, this structure of this strategy that does not end on it, I believe, through these 70 pages, that there is absolutely one quality picture, one overview of all activities, one cross-section of the concrete state and gives a very concrete vision with very concrete results to be achieved. When it comes to the results, a certain dose of skepticism certainly exists, but here are some participants of the debate, specifically the Mayor of Vodice, who says that through 20,000 rooms, only 1000 are foreseen in the Sibenik-Knin County, and that they have plans and also 5 and 6000, then the fact that the data in this strategy is justified and that there is certainly room for those figures in the next 8 years. Sure that private accommodation somehow took the most swing. In particular, private accommodation is contained in measure 9, which is also foreseen as a national programme for the promotion of family accommodation that I am not reading this whole measure by heart now. However, in essence, the measure concerns activities, holders and implementation deadlines which provide for and create an appropriate and encouraging institutional environment for improving the quality of housing, raising the level of knowledge and professional skills for successful business management, establishing appropriate and objective criteria for the health system of financial and fiscal incentives, etc. etc. So when it comes to private accommodation, I believe that this is the first document and the first strategy that has faced the private sector, which has recognised all its advantages and all its shortcomings, and that, especially in the area of disadvantages, it will soon come up with concrete measures. In the first place, these measures are focused in line with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is also a program of 1000 swimming pools for Croatia where in a very good way we will be able to build and raise, directly raise the quality with pools which are one of the key factors in the extension of the season and with great care we will follow that measure for reasons because we have the information now which these facilities will do, and we will see after a year and more days, already next season how many of these facilities will be filled after they have this additional content. There are also other measures of bifuse hotels everything else that private accommodation has required as such and will lead towards its rise in quality. But what I want to point out and what I want to underline this whole debate is that this strategy represents a certain milestone, a certain turning point for reasons, because with the help of this strategy it wants to manage the tourist product in the first place. It is also clear that I am also aware of these responsibilities that, at the invitation of this high home, even after the end of this season, and especially of the following, we are willing to present the results as well and look back on the passing times of this strategic document, which I think will be the first time in terms of tourism. But what I'm also saying is that despite these things that apply and that come directly from the strategy, our activities are aimed at one whole series of approaches to the tourism sector as one horizontal sector and other sectors, in the first place it is a food sector whose competitiveness cluster with all key players in the private sector has already been launched. Then also in the phase of formation is the creative sector that we have had a lot of opportunities to hear about today and which is also close and will intertwine especially with the tourism sector when we talk about creativity, when we talk about creating new products, when we talk about that cat of tourists, in conclusion with filmmaking, promotion and everything else. In this area and this government and in the previous workplace where I was first killed, it has started certain things and the past time since the beginning of last year has been working on identifying the Republic of Croatia to the 12 key strategic sectors so that public investment can then be carried out and finally say which are key sectors for the Republic of Croatia. Next to those 12. 3. are horizontal with biotechnology and nanotechnology, it is tourism and exactly the first and next step with the implementation of this strategy, we already have tomorrow when we start forming and initiating the work of competitiveness clusters in tourism that are completely identical and overlapping with destinations, so these 8 destinations 5 in the coastal part and 3 in the continental part. And it's an important point and it's one important path that will probably bring a lot of positive changes in the design of tourism products of each of these destinations, and what's important I would say and a certain decentralisation and the descent of certain powers in the tourism sense through a system of tourist communities that will be focused and done on the principle of these functionality. So destinations will be the key ones where certain policies will be generated and implemented clearly with one roof effect of the Croatian Tourist Board's office, which will take care of the basic and key and general promotion activities and later on, therefore, the management of the Republic of Croatia's product. Here's how much I'd like it. I felt this need only for extra, to give extra emphasis, extra importance. I would like to thank all of you for this constructive debate and thank you in the process of the committee, the parent committee on tourism, which has contributed greatly to the descent, I would like to say the information, on this strategy, which has contributed greatly to its very quality as well as to the Committee on Environmental Protection, and to all of you today who have taken the debate in this House, thank you very much and very much until we see it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-25-0.u39360	Thank you, too, dear Minister of Tourism. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. The debate on the text is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock. Now we'll stop working, see you here at 10 o'clock with a vote and a change or an addition to the agenda. Thank you very much. Proposal for a Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 98 votes in favour and 5 abstentions have been adopted by the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy by 2020 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
