ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27705	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning! We're going back to work. On the agenda we have 11. The Statute of Croatian Radio Television - Confirmation The Proposer of the Statute is the Supervisory Board of HRT. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Government delivered its opinion. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? A colleague, Branko Vukšić, on behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27706	The esteemed chairman of the HRT Supervisory Board, respected colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the Committee on Information, Information and Media held a session. He held a longer-term debate on the Statute, a based act of the HRT, an internally based act and discussed almost every point of the Statute, each article of the Statute, several observations were made. As you know, we do not have the right to change the status, we can accept it, or refuse it or forward it to do so and according to this HRT duty to return to the Croatian Parliament again in the procedure. Most of the five members of the board were of the opinion that the statutes in this form could be accepted, two were against and one had been restrained by the fact that colleagues with HRZ were manifest in our remarks and promised that everything that proved to be right would follow the amendments to the statutes and if the practice shows that we were right to amend and re-route it to the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27707	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27708	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thought that maybe we'd hear something from the motionors before about the HRT statutes and it would be a custom and order here today, and the principal director who was the proposer of this statute to the National Committee, and it would be just as good that someone here from the Resolute Ministry of Culture is here, so that he can hear with debate and in a certain way or accept certain proposals or not accept certain proposals in the future. It would also be very good if, before this statute, we had a new HRT statute on the agenda, although we are already on the agenda, but we are already postponing several meetings of the Assembly, Madam Vice-President of the Programme Council Report and the Supervisory Board for the previous period. We're going to keep them on the agenda systematically, I think it might be logical, that way we want to show that the situation on HRT is not good. It went into the selection of a new principal, vd editor, and in some way a new statute, so it would be good to discuss these reports that have not been accepted before, to see if there was anything wrong or not, and then to discuss with more information the new statute. I welcome the chairman of the Board of Supervisors. The fact is that the Supervisory Board has a special function in accordance with the amendments and additions of the HRT law to take particular care of the financial operations of the HRT. and yesterday on the board we discussed that at its second session at the end of the year 12.12., the Supervisory Board voted on this statute of co-workers and colleagues who you have on the bench with a desire to hold the statute at the end of last year's session of the Parliament. When he failed to appear at a session of parliament at his fourth session, the HRT Supervisory Board made a new version of the statutes and voted him by majority vote. The main recommendations were in Articles 15, 190 37 and 38 of the Statutes and relate mainly to the consent of the Supervisory Board when making financial transactions in relation to the Director-General and to the consent of the Supervisory Board at which the amount of financial resources is to be given by the Supervisory Board to the Director-General and, in particular, to the conclusion of certain contracts with... which have been known to suspect that such things have occurred in the past time on HRT. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal, which was revised to call the statutes, was sent to the Parliament, it was sent to the Parliament, we did not get it, it was not currently arranged in the services of this high House, but it was addressed which means that sooner or later it must be arranged, which means that sooner or later if this statute is confirmed, sooner or later it will discuss the new version of the statutes. I would especially like to say another newspaper that appears in this proposal for the Statute, which is the introduction of the Director of the Programme. The director of the programme is something that should be between the Director-General and the Director of individual construction units. So it's a very important function, but there's no such thing as an important function anywhere in the HRT Act, which I don't think is good because it's a very important function. The fact is that this function was mentioned in the programme that Mr. Radman proposed to be chief director, but I think that the introduction of this function requires re-amendment and addition of the HRT Act. We also considered the board, and we now believe that because of this opinion of the 4th-session supervisory committee, where more control is proposed when determining and taking on financial commitments, we felt it would be wise to withdraw the statute for a week, re-audit it and then refer it to the parliamentary procedure. I don't know why it bothers anyone in the sense that the Supervisory Board has stronger operating control mechanisms that are often mentioned in this House as problematic why would it bother anyone? And why, when this procedure around HRT is already going on for months, why would it bother us in some way that the statute that has the support of the entire supervisory board will be voted next week? We think that it would be wise, that it would be better and that it would be more effective in terms of the better situation on HRT that I believe we all want. Why are we particularly pointing that out? Because I want to mention a few things that are happening on HRT right now. We are now also witnessing that there will soon be a misunderstanding between the Director-General and the Supervisory Board, that in certain media there are discussions and resignations of the editor-in-chief, particularly the information programme, that on television there are individual clans of journalists who are fighting each other over certain parts of the programme. There is information that some HRT employees are chasing public interest and their interest is what their position does not necessarily have to be public interest, and the public media should now be a representative of a particular public interest. Just look at colleagues and colleagues' data from the fall scheme, 35 visiting politicians and politicians from ruling parties and only a few from the opposition. You arrive at a 6-1 ratio in the autumn scheme from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Is that a mirror of public opinion and public interest? We don't think so. Is it a mirror of public interest that the current clock is moved without notice from the 2nd program to the 4th programme, without any announcement on any broadcast on HRT and then the current clock is cut off by news on Channel 4? Is the public interest entirely unprepared for the 3rd and 4th Channel? The 3rd channel that was supposed to be so-called family for culture and education where we watch old shows today, and on the 2nd Channel we watch commercial content that we could see on commercial television a few months ago and then someone convinces us that public television should be like that? A completely segregated scheme of what is written in the national strategy and how the 3rd and 4th programmes should be developed. When we talk about demonstrations in the Republic of Slovenia in "The Theme of the Days", and at the same time in the Republic of Slovenia, we have a strike of educators, it is not the topic of the day. When we have on all the headlines mentioning so-called. The press tax, and the HRT on this subject does not hold a single controversy show where opinions can be heard about it but invites the same "That Day" culture minister who then has the opportunity to talk about everything else, not just that. It's not public television or public interest. This particular topic should be the first one on the public media programme. There's a place where it can be discussed in public. I also want to say that it is not up to the vd editor that he determines whether or not an emigration show is needed. He can agree with the individual contribution of a single journalist or editor, he can disagree, he can penalize a particular journalist or editor but must not cancel the show, because the show is prescribed by a series of laws. That's inadmissible. I would also like to say that the information on the further loss of income expected on HRT in terms of advertising do not subscribe is also worrying and opens up the possibility of corruption. They're opening up the possibility of corruption because there's going to be low-level advertising, covert advertising. I'm particularly telling you in terms of some of the editorials. I'm sorry there's no principal here, so I'd say exactly what I'm thinking. What's particularly interesting is that the other day we're on the 3rd. The journal of the HRT when the topic was the oath of the President of the United States of America, Mr Obama, that we had as a media comment that commented on that speech by a man who was an expert in fashion and then we listened to about President Obama's oath, that is, from that aspect of how someone was dressed, what was glamour, etc. No statement on what the public in Croatia could be interested in, foreign policy, human rights, economy. Not a word. And to make it even more interesting, then it is found appropriate to compare Mrs. Michelle Obama and the prime minister's wife as a stylishly very refined comparison. Public interest, public information, I don't think. Because of what we have listed, we think it would be good to adopt the statute as soon as possible, but given all these remarks made at the 4th session of the HRT Supervisory Board of 10.1. and referred to the procedure of the Croatian Assembly, it would be better to do this statute so that we could bring it together. In this way we fear that the statute will not allow such things to happen on HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27709	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27710	You're saying that from the 4th session of the Board of Supervisors of 10th January, a new version of the statutes and a revised statute was sent to this House. This is simply not true because the Statute can only be regarded as the sequence of the HRT Act proposed by the Supervisory Board by the Director-General, not by what the Supervisory Board does without the Director-General. That's not a proposal for a statute. If the legislator wanted the Supervisory Board to write its own draft statutes, he would have put such a provision into law. The Supervisory Board can meet formally and informally, it can write any proposals, but the statute, the statute, the proposal of the Statute can only be what the Supervisory Board has accepted and what the Director General has proposed. And we can consider this another public debate, general debate, their private opinions, and what they've done to testify, though, about one relationship between the Supervisory Board and the Director General, which I'm going to say more about in the debate on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27711	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27712	Dear Mr. Vice President, the opinions listed in the new version of the statutes which exactly did not propose by the Director are different only in segments of better financial control. Only in those segments. Also, the proposer of the HRT Law wanted to introduce a new function which is now proposed in the statute, then he would refer it to it in the law. Then we can watch it that way. But she's not named. So I repeat, it's only about financial control. The fact is it's 12.12. The Supervisory Board also had a five-year contract with the government that has not been published so far and had a proposal for the statutes and the statute was then voted upon by the director's proposal to arrive at the Parliament's meeting at the end of last year. When it was not the Supervisory Board, the same statute proposed by the Director reviewed it once more and proposed that I thus state stricter financial constraints in terms of the financial independent business of the Director-General. Where's the dispute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27713	Thank you. And the next replica, colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27714	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague Mesic, chapter 13, was also disputed, you briefly touched it, it was a business secret and I will only remind myself of Article 47, that is, Article 35, which, for those colleagues who may not be following so much HRT’s work, which states that HRT’s activity is financed among other public revenues. That's why our question, and in any case, Article 47, is exactly what limits it, so that we can't and can't, and we're not members of the board, and we've been looking for this on several occasions, we could get insight into, for example, the amount of salary data from HRT employees, as well as the income data that is being paid, as well as the annexes of those contracts. Mr. Director said on the board yesterday that it was a matter of the Supervisory Board, so here's the head of the Supervisory Board, so we might get an answer to that question. And the same question that is being raised by this new structure that is proposed to us, so we will have four directors of business or construction units, and I would like the chairman of the Supervisory Board to answer how many shows there are currently on HRT on all four programmes, because of these four editors of the program or the director of the construction units will go pyramidally down and I wonder how many new editors will produce and whether this is in line with the announced rationalization or so we will have the accumulation of editorial functions. So I'm interested in the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27715	Replication response, colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27716	It's true, colleague Glavak, what you said. I just want to answer that there was a clear statement on the board that there must be no financial information on HRT that can be kept secret and we will insist on that and should insist on that. That firm, that business entity that operates with HRT, is asking to install in each other clauses that these financial data are classified must be eliminated from business with HRT. Such business partners do not need Croatian broadcasting, which insist that their contracts be secret especially because it is public money. And it is also quite right to know under what financial conditions some people on Croatia are working on radio. If we and as Parliamentarians or any other people dealing with matters of public interest, we have a duty to present everything we have, what we earn. In this way, people in charge of promoting public interest in public service such as Croatian Radio Television should do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27717	Thank you. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27718	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Supervisory Board, colleagues and colleagues. This was one of the few occasions for Mr. Radman to address at the very beginning of the term of office in the context of the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television to representatives and the public, and I think he should be here today to answer these questions which were asked earlier and explain some of the things that are questionable in the Statute, and this was also an opportunity to talk about the Croatian Radio Television programme, because it is absolutely certain that they will not only talk about the metrics. If they were supposed to be Ministry representatives, I'm not sure. We warned when the Law on Croatian Radio Television was passed, that is, supplementing the amendments to the law that he is a bad, bad Law on Croatian Television. This Statute, which is in accordance with the law, and that is why I voted in favour of the Statute of Croatian Radio Television at a committee meeting. What we received guarantees yesterday and from the director, director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television and from the chairman of the Supervisory Board that by adopting the Statute of Croatian Radio Television, the situation on Croatian Radio Television will change, that v.d.s and officials of the office cannot establish order on Croatian Radio Television. I think if they're good editors, if they're doing their job whether they're performers of duty or editors themselves, they don't give quality in themselves. After the elected officials were elected, the acting director of Croatian Radio Television felt a shift in the Croatian Radio Television programme already because it was disastrously bad by the summer. However, with changes in Croatian broadcasting, the programme is not good. The most eyed thing is that Croatian broadcasting programmes lack criteria, there are no criteria in how many policies, which politicians are hosting, how many opposition there should be. According to what we are looking at in the information programmes of Croatian Radio Television, it is certainly not a picture of the situation in the Croatian Parliament. The opposition was pushed to the margins on Croatia's radio television. I even dare say that before that, the relationship was far more equal. And when they call politicians on Croatian radio, then they try to prove that they exist only in the position of two, three politicians or four, five. However, both here in the Parliament and outside the Parliament, it is certain that there are politicians who have something to say on Croatian radio. As politicians, we do not have the right to interfere with the Croatian Television programme, nor do I believe that anyone from the position, from the authorities and the opposition, is trying to do so. But it's self-censorship, and I, as a former journalist, know a strong thing. Often editors have to persuade journalists to be braver. Courage on Croatian TV is missing. Nothing's changed here. I'm going to give an example that's pulling out of the previous period. It's even more obvious in this period. Every night, any economic topic on Croatian television will be seen by one, two, and sometimes three bankers, bankers who are signed with an analyst, and these banks also give lessons to both the government and the Croatian public that economic policy should be conducted, which should be done to make it better with these banks. Which is why they are analysts who have to deliver daily to the public, which is why from day to day, banks in Croatia who are foreign owned from night to night are propagated from night to night. That's not clear to anyone. One more obvious example of poor regulation is that before the parliamentary elections, I will not even name it because I think it is a meaningless economic analyst of one party, actually a strategic economic party after losing the elections did not go to parliament. There's an economic analyst, and he's just a member of a company's administration. Because there is one group on Croatian radio television that is powerful from the party and which continues to push the gentleman into the programmes. What are those reasons? Is someone paying the press? What are you doing on Croatian Radio TV? Why are banks present every day? We haven't received those answers yet, it's too long a time now we'll see – these can't do it. So the clans exist, if we don't break the clans on HRT, we're sick of any laws, bad for the director all the powers in his hands. Now something about the statute itself. There are no two statutes on HTT, there is only one statute on HRT, and there is a full agreement with my colleague Stazic, there is the statute that was proposed by the director and adopted by the Supervisory Board and we asked yesterday on the board whether there is another statute and because it was our duty since we received and from HRT there were votes that there were two statutes. In that statute, it bothers me at least how much money is allowed without a decision of the Supervisory Board to write down the contracts of the director of the HRT and I agree that this is a technical issue because the statute states that the director of HTZ seems to have to submit every three months to the Supervisory Board a report on each contract, so within three months it can react if something was wrongly signed and if something is questionable. There are more things that we discussed yesterday on the board, we also tasked the director of HRT and the chairman of the board of directors that finally a year of requests that we referred HRT's crops to fruit, which is that they finally show what an annex contracts are because we hear that journalists who teach politicians are making far more money, have salaries that can be far less than politicians but have with them that they're not politicians measuring that we wouldn't, I didn't mean that word. But they have contract annexes and that contract annex is, it leaks in his pocket extra money that's on the verge of legality. The director when I asked the board's name as chairman of the board to deliver these annexes to the contract, wrote that he was not in his jurisdiction, although he could only forward it to the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board could give us that answer. Well, here's the chairman of the Supervisory Board. I publicly invite him. The public has the right to know. Apparently, there are two hundred people with contract annexes. What was perhaps questionable in the statutes. It's a vertical and horizontal line of editing four programs on HRT as you know, every program will have its editor-in-chief, I still don't know what it'll look like to have four major editors and have their editors. How the first programme information programme editor and the fourth channel information programme editor will function. We asked, Mr. Director, who is not present today, that in practice there will be shortages and that they will in practice remove these shortcomings. It's actually the biggest question to me, the biggest problem in the HRT statute, exactly how it's going to work, which is going to be the criteria in the first and fourth programs, that it's moving something from the first and fourth programs, absolutely certain that it can't write in the statute, but it can write a hierarchy, the hierarchy knows who's responsible, it doesn't exist in the statute. It is said that in the statutes that this will be determined by the internal structure rule, we believe that the regulation will give those solutions and hopefully soon on HRT, all those editors who have a VD will be without a VD, that a competition will be called and that in the competition will choose the best that will remove all the doubts that plague us today. I actually have the biggest thorn in my eye in this statute, which is a business secret prescribed from the old statute. You have some at the end of the statutes a business secret that says that business secrets can only be told by authorized persons, who are your others and who are your others, is that public. Which is why a journalist may be accused of hurting a public figure if he says that a series of 15 million kunas has been set up and that the pure failure of HRT is a failure. Is that revealing business secrets? You don't say it's a business secret and you don't say who the others are, which is why the public doesn't, which is why it's such a veil of secrets on some data on HRT. What's the secret? With the money from the subscribers, I think if we give the green light to that statute today, it should be done as soon as the HRT is formed, which the director asked to form so that it can't move on to some major changes on HRT, that the article in business secrets or should be thrown out or explained exactly what business secrets are and what, who are those others who can't know the business secrets in HRT's work. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27719	Thank you very much. We have four replicas on your interpretation. The first is Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27720	Dear colleague Vuksic, objecting that the director-in-chief is not here, forgetting that we have our own Rules of Procedure here as parliament. The proposer of this Statute shall be the Supervisory Board and the sole representative of the Supervisory Board may defend on behalf of the Proposer. Let me explain to you what the position of the promoter means. A PR expert may think that politicians should not wear heels, but they will never be able to come to this Assembly to defend their proposal, regardless of its extraordinary originality. He must find some representative who will translate it into a bill and then that representative will only be able to defend it either by a club or by a government. But he no matter how original he was in the Parliament, he can't be a proposer. The Chief Director is not here to propose, this is the proposer of the Supervisory Board and the only one authorized to come here to Parliament is the chairman of the Supervisory Board. And if the Director General had come, then you would probably be complaining about what this man is doing here when he is not allowed to be here in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Here's an example of complaining to object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27721	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27722	Dear colleague Stazic, certainly that is not our intensity and that we would object only to complain. The principal had the opportunity and certainly no one would object to answering those questions. The chairman of the Supervisory Board cannot answer these questions and will not answer these questions entirely because he does not know what is happening because we have spoken beyond the statutes. And whoever thought today would only be talking about the statutes was wrong. When you talk only about the measure of things when you talk about any law on any proposal and when you say it to Kukuriku, the coalition exactly sticks to it. These were just saying it wasn't an objection, why the principal didn't take advantage of the opportunity to address the Parliament two months or three months after he was elected, nothing else. Nothing's gonna happen to the principal that isn't, and I guess we have a right to say that we'd like the principal to be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27723	You wish he were here, but according to our Rules of Procedure, he can't be here. Replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27724	Thank you. Well, I just have to say, Mr. Chairman, we were very pleased yesterday when the principal came to our parent board and we could talk about it. We were glad he could comment, answer our questions. And imagine who the Croatian was working on the only one on that board that brought to the air this morning on the news? Chief Director. Neither did the board president. So none of us are against it. But there's something else I wanted to replicate to you, dear colleague. Undercover advertising, that's, say, a topic where the principal could help us. The revenues from advertising are falling, and more and more in individual shows, individual businesses, individual portfolios, individual companies, and journalists who make contributions stand in front of individual buildings, more and more. I think there's a lot of things that should not only be related to these annexes that you've mentioned about wages, but also to pay extra attention, and I believe that there's going to be a monitoring board, and the program board will do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27725	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27726	Dear counterpart Mesic is not only not to be reported on what is said about the core document of HRT on the parent board but not to even report what is said on the programme council. So it's also just a quoted or principal or irrelevant thing from that programming council. That's what I said about missing criteria or wanting to miss criteria or censoring. Therefore, even now, this vd furniture is not immune to censorship. It certainly is not even polite to bring the only director in because we have been giving him grudges, and we have heard his answer and we have not heard what we resented him. Therefore,...just one remark to you you said you wouldn't replicate me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27727	Next replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27728	Thank you. You said Mr. Vuksic I'll quote "if no clans break down on HTV, it's bad news to the CEO of all powers". In doing so, you probably forgot that the same principal was appointed by the so - called so - called director. iosipović's clan and it is quite clear and well known that the Director-General celebrated leaving the previous post for a month or two before he was publicly elected to the Croatian Assembly as director and proposed. And therefore, how will he who has appointed the clan break the clans where he is placed and when he is already responsible for his clan and directly to his person who has placed it on HTV and where we have served in the Croatian Assembly as some kind of blind voting machine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27729	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27730	I do not agree with you that Radmana has appointed HRT director-in-chief Josipovic's clan. I also voted for Mr. Radman, and I am not a yosipovic clan, nor will I ever be a yosipovic clan. I voted for what I thought Mr. Radman was in between, I think, eight of them were the best candidates. And I'm the first to point out criticism to his work and I'll always scream out when HTV won't work well no matter who the director of HRT is, and I don't even agree that the Yosipovic clan is what you think it is, but that's why Croatian journalists wanted him. For the first time, journalists were asked who they wanted from the union to the society of journalists at HRT as director.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27731	And the last replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27732	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said a lot of good things in the statutes and what control through the statutes is necessary on HRT, especially as regards the financial control that we see from the proposed statute of directors which you requested, imagined and wished there was no limit to only 10 million kuna in available or contracting while the Supervisory Board fixed it and said it should be with 7.5 million kuna, and everything beyond that, with the consent of the Supervisory Board. Equally and what's bargaining with off-shore companies to be in charge of the Supervisory Board which would be quite all right democratic and such financial control of the bargaining would certainly be the best. We fear that censorship has gone all the way from opposition to all the current topics that are on today's public scene and that the public does not really have the right information and that the public interest is not satisfied through our public television. We'd better call her that this is state television again as current rulings and that she's also conveying the topics that she likes or how she's commanded. The censorship is in effect, and there's no way to remove it now given this parliamentary majority. We can talk about correcting, correcting, but we do not have the influence that matters. And I want to say that I believe that there will be no repeat time like when Mr Galic filed a report in this home and after 6 hours of debate he did not want to say how much his total incomes were.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27733	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27734	Unfortunately, at HRT in the last 10 years when the debate was held in this House of Commons, money is always mentioned which is unfortunate, because it should always be suspected that someone puts something in their pocket. We are this time when we talk about 10 million about how many directors have the right to sign on their own, I also think it is a technical question if the Supervisory Board is doing its job that it is not and I agreed that this is not the most important issue in this Statute. And as far as censorship is concerned, I've talked enough about it, I think more about self-censorship, more about clans, more about how politicians, individual clans, individual capitalists have their own journalists, so what Mr. Mesic was saying was that he was ratting out various companies, that it was still present, and that even none of the politicians had an impact on it but that it was a pure economy, that money. However, the director-in-chief is therefore set up to make order on HRT, so far it's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27735	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS club Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27736	Dear Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Proposer's representative. There is no doubt whenever there is any topic on our agenda regarding HRT, therefore a service that must provide a whole range of public services in the public information system, that it will always be independent of who does the ruling majority, and who makes a minority cause important, interesting, sometimes lucid, and sometimes less lucid debates from which both political will and political will will will be read, but also the political interests of those sitting in the Croatian Assembly, representing citizens who chose them, but also political ideas of parties representing in this way and in this area where HRT takes an extremely important place, so that in this area they would not try to provide their political ideas in one or another way or another with a certain higher level of legitimacy. So, we talked about reports of program management character, acts such as statutes or the law itself will always happen that the debate probably on both sides of the assembly must have significant differences. But what's ahead of us? We have before us the Statute of the HRT, therefore the basic act from which principles originate, but also the body according to which the full structure, business, internal organisation and behaviour of the entire HRT system are later regulated through 10 general acts. We now find ourselves conditionally stated in the fourth phase of the consolidation of the situation on HRT. The first was the one that covered the amendments and additions to the HRT Act, the second was the phase when, as a Croatian Parliament, we actually enabled the appointment of a director-general to establish a temporary management and editorial structure that should have stabilised the situation until the appointment of permanent bodies. The third was the appointment, i.e. the selection of members of the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board and the Director-General himself. And of course it doesn't stop there because the selection of the principal is just open processes that need to be completed now, in which we will allow the director-in-chief, based on the programme he presented to the Croatian public, first of all to the Information Committee, indirectly and the Croatian Assembly when elected, to actually get the opportunity to present the ideas that he has put forward as relevant for the future of HRT as the most important information service, and to concrete not only the documents but also the rules of conduct. As we know, Mr Radman has promised important changes in his programme, or he has proposed important changes by proposing that we accept this proposal with the choice. And I will remind you that Mr. Radman has proposed very important changes and in the management of houses, in the internal structure, in modernising not only production but the total technology that he has or should have the house of such a type of national significance, and then in program stabilisation, modernisation, etc. We liked it, and it is not a question of clans, but indeed of the Croatian Parliament, which is behind this programme and expects Mr. Radman to keep his promises. It's impossible to implement them according to models that have been in place so far. I will remind the 2010 Croatian Radio Television Act has brought a whole series of very high-quality changes, but it has also made it possible for something that is now happening in this Statute and we do not mention it in principle. And it seems to me to be the most important thing this Statute brings. I will remind you that Article 2. The Croatian Radio Television Act, in its item 3., says that Croatian Radio Television for Radio and Television Software channels uses the names Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. However, it is also said in Article 41 that the Statute of the HRT will regulate the structure of the HRT and the division of the internal structures, i.e. construction units. So, what we have so far had as a practice that the building or construction units of Croatian Radio, Croatian Television, the music production of this no longer exists. It's the most important, most important, and I'd say a very modern change that we haven't invented, which is well tried on numerous public television and radio services among them and those who are role models of many such as BBC. This means a completely different matrix of the whole house's functioning, but not only of the house as such but also of the way the program's production was independent of it, the audio program, the visual program or some other multimedia. So that's the taste of this change. She should be welcomed, too. It later, from the new matrix, features a brand-new organization of entire houses of several thousand employees not only in Zagreb but also in regional centres. So Mr. Radman kept his promise. He promised to integrate the programme's production systems, to raise them to the level of the structural units, and this is what he proposed. This huge change, if adopted and adopted in view of the entry into force of this Statute, will allow the Director-General to go into the final phase of consolidation, which is to call competitions for the directors of founding units, i.e. editors-in-chiefs and supervisors-in-chiefs. So this isn't where the director of the program is introduced, it's the director of a design unit called the program. As is the case with the introduction of the Director of Production, the Director of Technology, or the Director of Business, as provided for in Article 22(2) of the proposal of this Statute. So these are future members of the Croatian Radio Television Directorate. We haven't had that before, or we haven't. And so the HRT management system at this hour is still a pain in the ass. By adopting this Statute, we will enable the selection of the directors of the construction units, the establishment of the directorship, the selection of the deputy director-general, to be prescribed by the amendments and additions of the 2012 law, and also the call for tenders for all responsible positions in Croatia's broadcasting. It is a prerequisite for permanent stabilisation, internal functioning, improving human relations, raising the level of professional attitude towards work and of course what is very important responsibility. I believe that such an important change justifies the need for the Croatian Parliament to stand behind it, to greet it, and to give opportunity to the Director-General as well as to all other bodies prescribed by law to fulfil the tasks set out in the law. On the other hand, a contract signed between Croatia's broadcasting and the government. As the Chief Director of the Sea is well known to the Croatian Parliament, it will be possible to see how much the new organisation has responded in this respect to the needs of the moment on the one hand, and on the other hand to the needs of technological, organisational innovation and improvement of the business system on Croatian television. There were some words about how recent months have actually been happening on Croatian television already depending on how anyone interprets them could actually put them in evidence that there is still no good situation there. That's right. So in recent months, we have actually seen that the heritage of previous administrations is really heavy and burdensome. And that is why it is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament that, first of all, the following legal deadlines that are defined, which we have defined ourselves, therefore enable a new and permanent reorganisation and stabilisation of opportunities. There was also talk of possible objections between the Supervisory Board and the Director-General. No wonder we understand each other. It's about people who have recently been elected and who have passed legal deadlines behind their necks. So it is likely, above all, that the heavy and burdensome state of huge debts, including formal and informal accusations, that in the Croatian Radio Television system very often, too often, the law was violated. Therefore, they want to achieve as best as possible and within as short a time as possible in relation to these facts. Therefore, there will be no obstacles if both the members of the Supervisory Board and the Director-General are strictly law-abiding and therefore carry out the tasks assigned to them by the law, since neither the Supervisory Board can be nor the Director-General can or may replace the functions of the Supervisory Board. We need to harmonize the action just as the law says it, and I believe that communication will be such that there will be no need to talk here about whether or not someone has suggested one thing, and someone else has suggested another. In addition, yesterday, on the Information Committee, the Director-General very well announced that the existing model proposed by this Statute, including individual solutions concerning the competences of the Director-General and the Supervisory Board, which are not decidently defined by the law itself, i.e. amendments to the Law on Croatian Radio Television, should the subject of discussion and potential changes in the future be necessary. Of course, each system and the one that is being put forward today by the proposal of this Statute must be flexible enough to adapt it to better solutions. In this respect, the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats supports the proposal for the HRT Statute, as proposed by the Chief Director by the HRT Supervisory Board, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27737	Replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27738	Honored Madam to the President, your colleague has said that by adopting this statute that the greatest reach for the adoption of structural units would be in the role of raising the level of professional relationship to work. I deeply disagree with this, I believe that for the sake of the interest of the Croatian public, someone should say the following. If this statute finally legalises that the legal basis is in the formation of one party television that we all pay, one-party television that shows, in a way, that more prone to labeling political non-insidious foreigners, the ruling structure, and I would agree with my colleague Vuksic to subdue some of the stakeholders, etc., and nothing more, that is all we have achieved with this. Bad for Croatian democracy because it should now take five or four years for another structure to move this editor-in-chief and everything that happens with this statute to happen and then someone else will come and then make their own truth. You did not allow the Croatian public to choose the director and everything happening around Croatian television through the law and through this process at all, not to allow the Croatian public to step into democracy, but to take a step back in lead times.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27739	Reply to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27740	My colleague Marasovic, it would be much easier for me to delude in with you if you read the draft of the statutes one by one, listen well under two, and then make a zealous note of what I am saying and not misquote me. I didn't say what you said, so if someone is speaking a complex sentence, then they're important both the first and the third part of that sentence, I said, and I'm going to repeat that the adoption of this statute, that it actually allows one of the most important changes, is a new reorganisation. This reorganisation has differently set up a governance model and the adoption of statutes is a prerequisite to conduct competitions, if competitions are conducted, people will choose, of course, that someone who has been elected for four years will be able to set themselves up quite differently according to work and professionalism than someone who is a performer of duties. I hope it's a little clearer for you now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27741	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27742	Dear colleague Beus, I fully agree with you. The statute is a copy and the most important part is the administrative new structure and now you have just said that the management model is new. I'm most interested in HRT. It's not a shoe model design factory, let's say by quotes a model of editing. The exact structure of the internal structure of the HRT is regulated by the statute. It was bad, it was outdated, it didn't actually work. However, Radman has been given the mandate to do administratively based on his programme that he has set up in the statutes but as long as that statute is not adopted by the principles that are clearly in the law, nothing new will be done, we can do it in a genius manner, if people's habits don't start to change, if the programs don't start to edit, which means, now we don't have such a structure, we have this kind of structure. We rated the majority in the Croatian Parliament estimated that this model should be the best. But for so long, it won't come to HRT 500 new editors and journalists, so now some other... These same people, they will be able to convene the companies in a new structure and in an old structure if they don't change habits and habits should have changed from the first minute Mr. Radman stepped down on HRT and all the problems had to be solved from the first minute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing in it will, unfortunately, change the structure so we say the time here from today if this statute is adopted to begin to change habits but you will not be seen you will make sure it has nothing to do with the statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27743	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27744	Comrade Vuksic, I'd like to agree on everything you've said with you, but I don't want to believe in your black prognosis. So it's true that reorganization does not guarantee a solution to these problems, for example in editing, a different attitude towards public service, as you say, definitely. But reorganisation, the new structure is a prerequisite for different functioning available with the exceptional resources HTR has, and they are also human, so they are human. I want to believe that the new matrix of horizontal and vertical governance will enable, among other things, competence among those who will run individual programs and individual segments regardless of their emissions, or something higher, and that in this way they will be able to create better practices where those who are not good or who do what you rightly criticise will actually be exposed to the public, and then hopefully also to public disgrace and then sanctions that are appropriate to that kind of behavior. So it seems to me that this is an opportunity, a new opportunity, and to Chief Director Radman and all those people who will come on the basis of a public tender to change that situation. I agree the time is long gone, it's never been there, and it's all supposed to happen yesterday, but we're here today and we can't go back in time. That time is running out and the public expects us to give that kind of opportunity to the principal so that he can make as much use of his time as possible. And how will he use it? That's what we'll all talk about when one day he comes in with his first report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27745	And the last replica of his colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27746	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I would agree with you a lot, but the fact is that the director of the task force of the programme, a newly introduced duty under the proposal of the Director-General, was not mentioned in the HRT in the amendments to the Law on HRT, and the billing officer also had the aim to regulate the situation on HRT. This function is not available. Why is she specific? Its role is specified in the Statute in several articles, and see the introduction of Article 32. "the editors of individual programmes shall appoint and resolve the Director-General of HRT on a proposal from the Director of the Programme for a period of five years." If he ran a public tender, then what does he need a proposal from the director of the business unit? So it is yet a specific role, regardless of which he is one of the directors... is having a specific weight and influence on editorial policy and a specific impact on the programme. That's why I apostrophed it as a special situation. Even collegiately speaking, it's as if I have a hunch who might be in that position after the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27747	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27748	My friend Mesic, I can't and I don't agree with you. Indeed, the position of the director of the set-up program is extremely important and it is written here. He's the one doing the selection through a public tender because someone has to make a selection of the candidates that have arrived and suggest to the principal who they actually choose. Of course, there is also a process of obtaining opinions or consent from journalists and other creative staff. These are very important procedures and will be both very interesting and probably of interest to the public. Of course, the program is as a structural unit, but what it is in transfer and direct meaning means, therefore, the main content, I would say the product of HRT most important. There is no such thing as Croatian Radio or Croatian Television without a program, and therefore so much attention is paid in this statute. And as for your predictions, I'm glad you have these psychics, so I'm going to ask you in private to help me with some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27749	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure in 10.35 expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. I would also like to inform you that we will vote on the debated points at 12:00 p.m. or when we have completed the debate on this agenda point. It's SDP's turn, and on behalf of the club, Vice President Nenad Stazic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27750	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Gotovina, colleagues and colleagues. It is likely that a perfectionist among us would find several objections to this proposed statute, which primarily refers to nomothechnik and forgive me, President Gotovina, for writing. When it comes to nomotechnics, pay attention to Article 22, where in paragraph 6, you say "the operational coordination and coordination of the work of an independent construction unit referred to in the preceding paragraph" etc. and that independent structural unit is not mentioned in the preceding paragraph but in paragraph 4. When it comes to lecturing, in the first article in paragraph 2, you say, "HRT is entered in the court register." In Article 12(1), you say "sales of space for publication intended for promotional messages". It's not a Croatian language. Perhaps you were going to say selling space intended to publish promotional messages. But there are dozens of lecturers on HRT, yet this text should have been given on the lecture before it was sent to the Croatian Parliament if for no other reason than to respect this House. We, however, cannot correct these amendments because we are merely confirming or not confirming this statute. Take it or back it up. The SDP club believes it should be accepted for many reasons. First, the amendments to the law were passed in July 2012, the draft statute was sent to the Parliament before the end of 2012 with the intention of the Parliament to adopt it by the New Year and the pity that it was not so. Too bad he was pulled back, then returned, then salty again, too bad. Why do we think it should be adopted as soon as possible, and then changed and processed according to the envisaged procedure that the Director-General proposes corrections to the Supervisory Board and that you fix it a little bit and send it back here to...? Because this statute is necessary for the regulation of relations and for the new organisation of work. State of temporaryity, eternal vd editors that's not a good solution. You know, whoever he is, he doesn't have the power of one original mandate, and besides that, the existing scheme, the existing organization on HRT is not good. Whenever it comes to HRT anywhere in the Parliament, on the road, at least I've never had such a conversation with a friend without hearing a number of complaints about the program. Here is my colleague Mesic objecting that the transfer of the Parliament was transferred to the 4th program with 2nd floor it only takes an hour and a half or two hours without any viewers being informed as if the work of this home was not a public interest. And the citizens have chosen us here in the elections, I guess they're interested in what we're doing here, whether we're doing good or bad, and that's what public television needs to do. And the public television does not consider it appropriate to inform viewers that it has changed the entire channel on which it broadcasts, and since it has changed, it has a new channel, and why it does not follow the session all the time but only up to 2.5 hours. counterpart Mesic also objected to the way in which US President Obama's oath was transferred, probably with full law. I agree that fashion details are not the most important thing on the oath of the American president and whoever made the decision to bring the fashion commentator into that show made a huge programme mistake regarding the public, the public commitment of HRT. A colleague Vuksic says there are no criteria in selecting guests, probably. I could object that on New Year's Eve the editor of the main journal said tomorrow they collect bread and milk, that's when the 5% VAT was introduced. In no trade chain they collected bread or milk but it was his job to check it out and tell the viewers. In large trade chains, they will not collect bread and milk despite the introduction of VAT, to inform people, not to misinformed them. Which is why, to make him look attractive. But about that... a little later. So the objection will always be, I believe that every MP, but any citizen could also point out an objection to the programme. However, the programme cannot be regulated by either MPs or citizens, only the editors and journalists of the HRT can edit the programme. And we need to create opportunities to do it as well as possible and as responsible as possible. By adopting this statute, we are taking a step in that direction. A little bit about sending, withdrawing and sending a new version of the statutes that it wasn't then, that came here to the Parliament, which some believe we'll discuss eventually, and I'm sure we won't. This game is talking about the relationship between the Director and the Supervisory Board and that's something we should be worried about. At least that's where I see possible problems pro futuro. It wasn't the intensity or the desire of the legislator. The legislator's intensities were to establish the amendments to the law, their relations and that these bodies cooperate in order to improve the quality of the programme, in order to improve the organisation of work, in order to improve the quality of the HRT. It is the wish of the legislator, not that these bodies come into conflict and try to prove which of these bodies is more important. They don't have two captains, that ship wouldn't have gotten anywhere, he'd have crashed on the first hill. The captain of the ship is one. There are those who help him in this work. The Director-General responds to the Supervisory Board, but the Director-General manages the HRT and no one can want to manage it for him. I'm afraid there are members on the Supervisory Board who think they'd be better directors than this director we've chosen here. Some even competed for that position, they didn't pass. It would not be good for them to use their work on the Supervisory Board in a way to try to prove that our choice was bad, that we chose a bad director over him. The Supervisory Board plays an important role, but the Supervisory Board does not manage HRT. The SDP therefore provides strong support to the principal. It would not be good if some possible personnel error in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board was an obstacle to the reorganisation and better functioning of the HRT. That wouldn't be good, but if a mistake was made it can be corrected. The statute, let's say something about it, has two, is supposed to bring in two of the most important acts. This is the Regulation on the Systematization of Jobs and Jobs and that is, of course, the internal structure of HRT. In the internal structure of HRT lies the most important newspaper. So far, it's been shared television, radio, music production, general jobs. The Director-General proposes, and the Supervisory Board accepts a completely new, different, innovative organisation, so there is a program, regardless of whether it is radio, whether it is television, whether it is multimedia. And such a unit design program will have its own boss. It will propose to the Director-General the appointment of lower editorial positions. It will also be responsible for such proposals, the Director-General decides. You know what it's been like so far? There goes, for example. A television journalist on a mission, on a trip out of the country, is wanted to send a report for the radio, he says I'm not a radio journalist, which I would be reporting for the radio. He forgets that he's an employee of that house, that he's getting paid there. And that's why this new reorganisation was proposed, and I'm deeply convinced that it's better. That TV reporter won't be able to do it anymore. He'll be working in that organisational unit program for what he's told he's doing. It's the same in production, technology and business. Look, what's wrong with the program today? There are some I'd say Lena, a journalist's editorial Lena. He gets the editor of the show and he thinks it's his private show so he can do whatever he wants. Well, that's not true, and when his editor tells him, well, man, that's not right, then he says you're choking my press freedom. That's not good. That's how it's never been done and it can't be done. Therefore, with this new reorganisation, I hope that such a practice will be abolished because it is not good. With full confidence in the head director of the HRT that we have chosen in this Assembly, with the invitation of the Supervisory Board to take his role in relation to the Director-General as a cooperative role, above all a cooperative role. The SDP will vote for this Statute and support HRT's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27751	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. He's a colleague of Jasen Mesic's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27752	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would agree with a lot of what Mr. Stazic, the esteemed Vice President, said. It is true that the ship cannot have two commanders or two captains. But on ships that are armed, there is someone called the Fire Commander. Without him, the captain of the ship must not fire. HRT is if we can imagine it quite well-armed, let's say it's a vessel like that. In this regard, it is not good for the commander of such an organisation to come into conflict with the Supervisory Board on the amount of financial resources. Or let's say that we don't have the following provision in the Statute: "Extremely the Supervisory Board must give consent to the conclusion of all legal transactions without a monetary limit with off-shore companies from tax havens according to the definition of the EU and OECD." If I were the director, the captain of any boat would be in my interest, it would be in such an interest to me to fight both hands and feet to get me the Supervisory Board to agree to some contract I need or don't need to make with someone from any off-shore tax havens. That's what this is about. So there was our appeal when we talked about it. So, that's all, otherwise what you've been saying and about editors and public interest, I have to say that I absolutely agree with you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27753	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27754	I like your comparison with the battleship, but the commander of this battleship HRT is not all-powerful, he doesn't have all the power. He also sees in staff solutions on a proposal from the branch director to appoint someone. His work is controlled by the Supervisory Board. Well, that's what the Statute says. But it wouldn't be good if he had to come to the Supervisory Board with every decision and ask for confirmation of the Supervisory Board, because then he doesn't run it, that's when the Supervisory Board manages. But here I think a good 10 million kuna limit has been found. I think that the periodic reporting of the Supervisory Board on its work is good, and in the end both the Supervisory Board and the Director-General must come once a year before this Assembly, so it is a place, it is an opportunity to see whether they have worked legally and in accordance with this Statute. I believe that with this proposed Statute a balance has been reached in which the Director-General will not be bound by hands, but in which the Supervisory Board will not manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27755	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27756	Dear colleague Stazic, you said that I am, you quoted me as saying that there are no criteria for selecting politicians. And you forgot to say it. I spoke in general about the criteria that this is the only criterion that is missing on Croatian broadcasting we would be happy. It's just one of the criteria. If I were the director of not being Croatian, I would limit myself to the amount of money per million kuna. However, I fully agree that 10 million for a company that manages a billion-and-a-half kuna that has to be allocated monthly to transmitters and connections alone, so each month it repeats the same thing. 10 million is a technical question if the Supervisory Board is doing its job. It can be darkened twice five million or ten times a million. Therefore, I agree that this is a technical question and I do not have any problem with this Statute. What you said was quite accurate and well detected. The Supervisory Board must not imagine managing Croatian Radio Television. The Supervisory Board has its place in the law, and now it has its place in the Statute, and it knows what the Supervisory Board is doing. I don't think the Director has come into conflict with the Supervisory Board before the Supervisory Board has come into conflict with the Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27757	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27758	Dear Madam President, colleague Stazic. I already said once that you geniuses are political... and practically manipulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you have accessed one method of political relativism, relativizing everything by saying all of you here, I mean here we talk, we talk a little bit. Well, anyone could talk. It's all irrelevant. This is the right thing to do and television is a great institution, no sir... It is clear to all of us to the Croatian public, but I now address you directly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The attitude of Croatian television towards, say, opposition politicians and the attitude of Croatian television towards political narration and furniture. Milanovic says the Prime Minister and the gentleman to all of us here and I've been listening here, you're ignorant, you're nothing, there's nothing good in you, nothing praises and nothing on TV. This one here yesterday lists one sheet paying VAT and taxes as toilet paper and cites more regions that wipe out that toilet paper or that leaf and nothing. And when I pulled one parallel, one illustration and they saw the parables by saying little criticism at the expense of my political group of opposition to treat the government gently as a parent in adulthood who had a child in adulthood and yet female, which is an example of political primitiveism, an example of even primitiveism, and I put on the first journal as breaking news. If it's the same relationship, it's not the same and I'm explaining it to you. Either the editor is no good professionally or knows no emotion from the parenting sphere or it is political manipulation. That's what you're talking about Mr. Grabovac I told you well, I apologize for setting this up on your professional college and state what I said specifically and to you Mr. Stazic it's not exactly what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27759	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27760	First, I thank you for your compliments. I'm not sure if I deserve it exactly in that form and in that extent. Secondly, I think what the prime minister is in opposition to the current morning several times with a synchronised public on whether the opposition deserves it or not, there we will have different opinions you or I. And third, you're not happy with your performance, your public television character. You know, critics shot with journalist criticism have been bleeding for a long time, but they have to learn to accept that picture that the media is sending to the public about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27761	And the last replica of my colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27762	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, said that only one commander can have a slave and that in this sense the Supervisory Board must not interfere with the management or the director's affairs. On the other hand, in view of this dimension, it was all about what kind of human policy it was, who would set up these personnel, or who would control the financial resources. I do not dispute that these two dimensions are very important, however, I want to wait for this to end or. However, I am asked another question, who is who brings strategic long-term plans for the development of HRT, who proposes these programmes. We could somewhere here in this bill of statutes indicate who it is, but there's no answer to that question. And it seems to me that this strategic dimension of development must be preceded and must be first dimensioned in order to also perform this human and financial adjustment to this strategic development. It's just what's missing. Who will answer the question, let's say here in these provisions of the TV assignments, there is no mention of HRT's obligation to the emigrated Croatian and that programme. Is it then something that stays in the mood of the principal or is something that needs to be defined? It seems to me that the basic lack of this, that you don't have these dimensions, that we're going to fight who, whether politics, or capital will determine the advantages of then or the assignments of that television, and it can happen very quickly that the media will become outside and beyond society and an independent pact that no one controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27763	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27764	Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, MPs and MPs. It is rarer otherwise that the Croatian Parliament is having this kind of plenary discussion about a sublegal act, about one statute, and perhaps I would like to make a general remark, given that in some way the privilege and the HRT, they may have been able to work a little bit more hard on that Statute and make it even a little more high-quality, to work it out, given that it is this way exposed to the general public debate. In Article 2, the predecessors made many good and quality comments, ideas and opinions, I would really agree with the good work presented by predecessors from various parties who spoke on behalf of the club. Here, I'll try to make a few more suggestions, ideas, concords, and disagree over some parts of that statute. I also say this statute is written as the statutes are written in part and not enough in fact, with insufficient effort if I may be so honest, but the problem with this statute is that it still goes public, comes before the Croatian Parliament and I think that whoever wrote it should be aware of that fact. There are enough professional services, there's plenty of time, there's enough resources to make a little more effort, and that the statute in total is much more elaborate, that there are more points, that it's much more quality, the whole statute, regardless of which is just one sublegal act of the HRT. For example, Article 2(1) discusses how "HRT promotes public values and interests and answers the public for its action". This is a definition of public values and interests. There is no further explanation or interpretation of what is the concept of public value and interest. Are public values and interests in the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia? What would the public value and interest of the EU be of public value and interest in the People's Republic of China? What public values and what interests? So how does HRT answer to the public? I will not specify examples but from the software concept of this HRT, the selection of editors, the manager of the information program and the very concepts of favouring certain people, certain systems of values are quite clear and visible and that you do not know and to close your eyes and open your eyes or wake up watching this HTV program one day or HRT will be fully clear to you who was in power before or who is in power today. And there's no mistake. So when HDZ was in power, HRT was ruled by the verified HDZ personnel, and now that the party came to power by the skiers. And there's more or less our deviations. Thus, HRT promotes both those public values and undefined public values. So at the time of HDZ, the public values promoted were faith, nation, EU accession. And now there's a new era party times now are new public values on the scene. These are the values of gender equality, the values of agnosticism or faithlessness and the values of an undefined universalism. However, in order not to be unfair, there are some common values and some categories of public values and interests which are continuity and which are unchanged. These are, for example, the lasting phenomenon of nepotism, the uncritical expansion of those who are in power, the support of the interests of large capital and the absence of largely serious intentions to manage through responsible and rational business savings and rationally with those billions and 200 million kunas of money that Croatian citizens actually keep alive. When it comes to the Director-General, this is Article 15(7), which defines that he decides on the amount of up to 10 million kuna on his own, it is one quite large amount and I think it is rare that in public institutions he has the ability to manage that amount of money, to make decisions without the consent of the Supervisory Board. But maybe that's something to think about. When it comes to the role of the programme council, Article 20(1), Article 21 and beyond, I think that the role of the programme council was not sufficiently elaborated and there was still room for a little more of the management responsibilities to be handed over to the programme council, but to give him additional tasks of what should be done and to assist the administration. When it comes to Article 29 of the editor-in-chief's question, can't the number of editors-in-chief be defined on HRT? Is it possible to determine it or must it remain undefined and subject to various agreed forms of overstatement depending on which group it should be? Does HRT have defined design units, has a defined system according to why the number of Croatian editors-in-chief can not be defined in the Statute? When it comes to Article 23, it is about the Administrative and Other Professional Service, and only in this article is it said that the whole office is being formed as part of an independent construction unit organised by the Director-General, which is being managed by the Secretary-General and ends the full description of the relatively vague and structural unit, its affairs and definitions of the Secretary-General. Article 27 discusses the activity of the Director of one of these 4 business or construction units, which is not bad. It may be possible to mention a little of the activities or to develop or at least specify the basic activities and leaders of these other construction units. They're not in their statutes, at least point them in rough terms. When it comes to the HRT programme itself, each of us has both such and such indigestion and praise for this programme. I'll speak for myself. I can say that I am very proud of HRT or HTV, and I think that in this once uncritical social concept where we are never ready to say a nice word more or less for anyone else, we should still be as a people or as a society satisfied by the fact that we have one strong, quality, national television, a television that has a rich tradition, which has a large number of both hard and hardworking and quality people, has still great resources and potentials to develop further. Yet television that we must not be so relieved of because of our interests or the interests of our parties or the interests of our groups so easily play with it and finally TV that has been relatively good for years with the competition of commercial televisions that appeared in the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to the Director-General, the Director-General voted the Croatian Parliament, but did not choose him. The Chief Director was elected by the President of the Republic of Croatia who, I do not know if the President of the Republic of Croatia and whether there are constitutional provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that provide for the participation of the President of the Republic of Croatia in the selection of the Croatian Chief Director. As far as I know, there are no such provisions, and it is generally known that the President of the Republic of Croatia chose the Director-General and decided and lobbyed and sought and was a crucial factor in his choice. Well, since such an already beloved and verified position is our president's position and when this principal has so much and life and work experience and when HRT is already being reorganised and trying to agree and when we will finally get people who, after a number of years, will finally take over the duties, and will not be constantly acting in office, which, of course, kept people in suspense. Then perhaps it is finally time to start home production and documentary and feature films on HRT too, to finally film in this country a normal film and about the Homeland War and to be the bearer of the project, for example, because we watch constant partisan films and HRT rephrase them every little bit. But one normal, fair Homeland War movie we haven't been able to make in 23 years. Perhaps the time has come for the second sequel to "Heroi Vukovar" to finally be shown on Croatian television after years of rejection. Maybe it's finally time to start again in the mid-1990s off serious shows that will be unbiased by both economic and social and political issues that are practically not on public television today. When it comes to the article 47 dealing with business secrets, I agree with the predecessors, we also feel that there is no reason for business secret to declare various contracts, amounts to compensation, wages and a business secret. Why, for one reason, HRT is the foundation of its financing is a state subsidy called HRT tax. Therefore, it is the amount paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is the money of the citizens, it is the public money, and it has the state subsidy status. Therefore, if the public has the right to know and to know, as the public has the right to know what we have paid and what the President of the Republic has to pay and everything the public has to finance and how much it cost an official vehicle, so the public has the right to know who has the pay on HRT and what contracts are concluded, in what amounts and for whom and why. Therefore, Article 47, which keeps a business secret, and in fact protects the material interests of a particular group of people, disagrees at all and keeps it at the end and harmful to HRT itself. Mr. Jasen Mesic spoke of moving the current now from 2nd to 4th channel, but one other predecessor told him well, not moving the current clock but moved the transfer of the session of the Croatian Parliament from 2nd to 4th channel. And I would also agree with some of the predecessors that it may be a good time since we all see that this 4th channel actually has almost no or indeed I will dare to say here at this initial stage a miserly program, yes and time, and perhaps this would benefit both the quality of both our sessions and our presence at these sessions and that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament are fully transmitted on that 4th channel and there would certainly agree with Mr. Stazic who talked about it. When it comes to commenting on certain events, I also agree with some who have claimed that here in the Republic of Croatia there are several experts on HRT, or HTV, primarily experts on all the sufferings that exist. So one man is, for example, an expert on all social issues, and although he does not believe in God, he is an expert on what the church says and on what the church thinks and on what it means about faith and about the economy and all political parties and the like. So because of Article 2, Article 15, Article 47 and the general quality of this Statute which can be much better and when you have already brought it to the Croatian Parliament, you could certainly have made it much better. We don't support this statute, with nothing against this structure, as far as the structure is concerned, the inner structure. Also, unlike SDP and Mr. Stazic, who said that SDP gives strong support to the Director-General, HDSSB does not give and provides strong support to the Director-General, but we do provide support to HRT, its employees, the quality of HRT work, the quality of journalists, cameramen and all those held by HRT, and we can only send a message to the head of director that our support still requires Croatian television to be converted into becoming Croatian public television, which is not the case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27765	Thank you very much. We have as many as six replicas on your exhibit. The first is Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27766	Dear counterpart Djurovic, you asked how many HRTs actually have editor-in-chiefs. I've been going through the statutes, and apparently there should be four editors-in-chief of four channels of HTV, one editor of the main portal, three editors of the main radio, but I'm worried this and other media services could mean 15 or 16, I think as much as they want. That's not good. I agree with you, it should be defined in the Statute. I agree with both you and my colleague, Stazić, the session of the Croatian Parliament should be fully transmitted on 4 channels. The sessions can be interrupted by the news, it's not at all controversial. And I think that what seemed to be just a relationship to the MPs, to the Parliament. And I believe it was done at the moment of politics, and no one can convince me that someone did it on their own. The relationship to this House of Highs that I keep saying is not the government of the Parliament, but the Parliament of the Government. And that's not good, and I don't think Croatian broadcasting should be treated like that to the owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27767	Reply to the replica Drazen Djurović, but sign up a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27768	Yeah, yeah, I signed up, and you weren't looking. Mr. Vuksic, I was recently in Quebec and I really felt proud that they had an analogue broadcast television signal, they have those noise pictures in the country that is immeasurably richer and stronger, and we have a digital signal. And somehow a man does a little bit of no matter how we compare ourselves to others, and that's how we always take out the negative examples where we're worse, where we're weaker, where we are. And here I was feeling really good and it's kind of good when you feel like you're coming to a country where some segment is still progressing and where it's found that you've gone a little ahead of those who are otherwise far ahead of you. Well, of course they could have defined. But if you think a little bit about the number of editors-in-chiefs, that way it'll make it easier for yourself when they define it in the Statute that there can be only so many will stop the jag from creating new ones where someone else might get caught. They'd make things easier for themselves. But that's why I'm saying that the Statute could've been done a lot more, a lot more work on it. That's enough of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27769	The replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27770	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, counterpart Djurovic, among other things, said that during the time HDZ authorities were all HDZ's verified personnel on Croatian television. Well, fellow Djurovic, if that were the case, if that were the case, and if that were the case, then we could conclude today with a look back that HDZ obviously had a very big problem checking personnel. I'll tell you one example, let's say when the facebook protests were organized against the government of the Republic of Croatia then, we saw a few colleagues in the government directly engage in an informative show where the journalist says, reports from one square, doesn't matter which one and says there are several thousand protesters here. And we watch and see that there are a few dozen people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27771	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27772	Ma'am, when a man is part of a group and I'm part of a group, then politically, then he loses it and gets a little bit out of the queen of society, then he loses his sense of actually the social queen and what the social queen feels. And you can be a member of whatever political group you want to convey if you're a journalist with any conscience, you have to convey what people feel, and you facebook protests were part of what most people felt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27773	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27774	Here I would agree completely with my colleague Đurović when he spoke about the way the director of television was appointed, but I would add that indeed in today's time and especially when we listen to today's rhetoric, here is Mr. Stazic, who today wants to convince the Croatian public that it is indeed something good done for all the viewers and listeners of Croatian television, and we are witnessing that today's Croatian television really is not public television. I would first of all call it a party television that is really set up by this current government and that damages the Croatian public with such one-sided reporting not only when we talk about meetings of the Croatian Parliament, and it is evident that we have transferred it from another channel to the fourth. And it's not the same thing to look at the second channel and the fourth channel, and it's about humanizing, about setting people up so we don't even talk. You may only be kidding yourself that this is good, but the public certainly appreciates it very negatively and everything that has been done on Croatian television so far and when we listen to the director who says it will set up all people from before. Well, I'm just afraid they won't be calling those who worked even during the former Yugoslavia that they'll be invited because they're extremely good personnel, and about the appointment of the director, so I guess it's clear to everyone that it was appointed by the prime minister, or the president of the government of the Republic of Macedonia, because the man in the place where he was working was due before the time before the competition was called. So, I guess it is visible in any way that the staffing was done and how the director of Croatian television was appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27775	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27776	... It's about senior officials, intelligence, public media, repressive apparatus. [[Specially enabled.]] You've missed a nice opportunity to spend your lustration. There I can't help you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27777	The replica of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27778	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djurovic, you mentioned gender and religious, in fact, the greatness of gender and religious equality in a negative context. So in order for this to never happen again, I want to remind you and introduce you to Article 14. The constitution of our country which says that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of its race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics, all are equal before the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27779	Dujomir Marasović, replica
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27780	Dear Madam Vice President, you said you were proud of HRT, and I am proud of the Croatian Army but there are no fighter planes, if we have money we will buy them either moments or phantoms and I will be even more proud. We pay Croatian television a billion and how many millions, if we give two billion will be even better, and we will be even more proud and discuss it here at all. Even these technical matters have been discussed with regard to the relationship of some of the sixth, seventh, and so on. I'm interested in Mr. Djurović's one show, I don't know exactly what it's called, somewhere later in the evening where three, four of them from the Faculty of Philosophy with a younger lady, are having a debate and have a tendency to discuss all the social events almost with one of the world's aspects because they're discussing everything and it's one teacher who bites everything in half a sentence, I haven't yet managed to say what she wants to end up with, but it's so left-handed and... That's amazing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One serious professor is smart enough to say what he's saying, let's go through it, but it's totally left-wing. One there some anarcho liberal young man I have no idea who he is now so they wouldn't accuse me as Mrs. Pusic he claims to be some kind of revolutionary but mostly left-handed total... And the fourth one professor of the young one who should play the role let's say right-handed, or this and the right-hand center, and the leader she's not SDP or she's left-handed, she springs from it that totally anti-all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now it's a reflection of Mr. Djurović's HRT, and that's where the dough is cooked from which the bread we eat is made, in that show look... Not that one defends itself against these four all night long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are not in Croatia that we should defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27781	A colleague of Marasovic. Thank you very much. You've analyzed it well. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27782	Yes, Mr. Marasovic, I'm watching that show, and I've watched the first cycle of two, and now there's three one, and really this team isn't at the level of the first team where there were emancipated intellectuals from left and right, two on one side, two on the other, but I like the show to be honest and finally that we have at least one such show, even in such a late hour on HTV because unfortunately we don't have more shows in which someone can explain their position for five minutes, so if you notice in the information program, it all comes down to a flash that lasts ten seconds or 15 seconds, someone needs. So no longer exists in the information program or the show, contact space shows that people are making their views, that's one show that at least people can in, these people, whatever they have their world view, can bring them out, and that's gone, it's all flashing for three seconds and hitting. However good this is and as personal as it is for me, I wish there were more and more such and similar shows, and I say this team is nowhere near that transitional team that had Letica, Zidic and others that were really great and now it is. It's a question of what they can agree on. Let's just make sure there's a show like that for all I care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27783	And the last replica is Jasen Mesic:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27784	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So a respected colleague to move the transfer of the current morning from another channel to the fourth channel without informing the interested public is inadmissible on public television. The 4th channel is news, it was brought into the national strategy, what it should look like and interrupted every 30 minutes of news, so it can happen that some topic is not being processed at all. And don't be surprised when one of your current mornings goes to the fourth transmission channels, so when it suddenly turns into an hour-and-a-half-minute report, then when it turns into a 15-minute attachment to you, it disappears. The current morning must be transferred on the watched channel, the sea. I agree that on the fourth channel can go to transfer constituency sessions to some other points when discussing some other topics that may not hold so much interest in the public, but currently in the morning if it is not directly on the public channel, then I don't know what it really is. Then it's real, and then what should be public. But they're so mixed up in programming schemes, it's so obvious that it's driven by completely uncompetent people who put the shows out of the archive, they only buy foreign series because they like it, without any insight into the public interest, and then on the other side you get a completely commercial show bought from, I don't know where you could look at commercial channels a few months ago, on commercial television that you have at home. What of the culture programmes that the cultural institutions are doing, zero, and it should have been written in the national strategy, which is why it was done and not that someone who had never had the opportunity to suddenly get the power to put on the programs as he wanted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27785	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27786	Well, here's MP Mesic, I agree with you, and perhaps the principal didn't like the previous Prime Minister's remarks on the current clock, so he transferred him to the fourth to have fewer people watching him, and maybe it's not because of you, but because of him simply, because the prime minister is more or less active in the role of our representatives, so we can look differently but I think it should try and that it might be really useful for us to have that fourth programme, in the end, it's not a rare phenomenon that has an x series of states on the additional channels or on those last channels or specially created channels conveying sessions of their parliaments not only national, some major state and regional parliaments. But let us also not imagine that the very sessions of Parliament should be what people's lives will be about. Yet people's lives revolve around their existence. So I say the current morning was probably more of a lot of prime ministers, so he switched to four.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27787	We move to an individual debate first in line is colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27788	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Maybe it's not bad that we've heard so many good ideas and conclusions about how we should edit the program and create the internal structure of HRT, but that's not the point of the agenda we're discussing. As much as I'd like to sort of demystify what's mentioned here as a major problem for HRT. I'd like to draw your attention to Article 17. The law on HRT that we passed and not so long ago in this House. In paragraph 1, it says "in its action HRT is independent", and then it explains what it means and says "it is achieved through programming and editorial independence". In addition to Article 4(2), the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "By the authority of its bodies, independence is governed by the fact that HRT itself determines its internal structure." And most of what we heard here in the debate was actually nothing more than an arrangement of internal relations and programs. It seems difficult to die off habits that the Assembly or parliamentarians determine quotas, edit emissions and evaluate their quality. However, we and no one else have chosen the editor-in-chief and the programme advice which is a large part of the questions about jurisdiction, and we have chosen the principal director. But here is the debate on the HRT statute. Strangely enough, it may not be strange that the procedure for the adoption of the statutes is very precisely regulated by law in three places. In a particular jurisdiction of the Director-General in Article 21, I am told where it is explicitly said that he and he are the only one who proposes the statutes. The Board of Supervisors shall, on a proposal from the Director-General, be referred to in Article 24. And interestingly, all of this is repeated once again in Article 42 where it is said that the Assembly confirms the statutes adopted by the Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Director-General. So all the questions about how many variants of the statutes we have are falling off. We only have what was proposed in this House in the procedure that was determined. One more thing that got a little out of hand, which is a fact of respecting a deadline that the truth instructive does not exceed the right of the statute to be confirmed within 2 months of the choice of the body, that is, Article 49. Any delay actually continues this which we are not satisfied with, so you expressed it in your debate, and that in most of those responsible for the program and its execution stands the vd, the performer of the duties. So how long are we gonna wait? Does the report on the work of the Director-General finally comply with the powers of the person responsible? And there's another important thing. There is no responsibility if the authorities do not respect their responsibilities, if the supervisory board, as Mr. Stazic said, starts to manage, what will the principal director do? Who's going to oversee the board of directors? Is it for me who's been given it? The Parliament has been given jurisdiction over the control of legality and business. But we have to explain, and it's quite clear that this is running from the topic, from the focus of the topic, which is the statute. Understandably, there is indeed a need in the Assembly to consider various issues and actions of HRT because it is a field of battle in which political and ideological interests, interests of groups and groups, interests of lobbys and clicks are opposed. But I'm sorry, let's not put ourselves here in a position to advocate one of those forces of click or group. It is especially visible if we do not stick to what is the subject of today’s debate. I'm also not happy with everything that's written in the statutes. Well, I don't mind the provisions of conflict and interest that concern the public. I mean, it can be fixed. True, it stands there in the statutes, some other acts by the principal, but even more by changing the management style that rules the HRT. Yesterday on the board, the principal actually made an important promise that his behaviour and his management of radio and television would be democratic, open to remarks and advice. I hope the one we heard here, too. First of all, his promise to do so is defined in three important points. First, he stressed the need for full transparency of HRT's business, it is guaranteed by this law. They'll be guaranteed other laws that I know are being prepared for, so I'm surprised some colleagues know the decisions of the Supervisory Board that we didn't get. Well, good. And the laws will force public authorities to be much more open and transparent about business, especially financial business, which is particularly important in this matter. The second was an important promise of the procedure and the implementation of the public procurements in which he had promised, and it must be maintained, that is his word. It's not the law, but it's the word. It must keep the promise that it will be about quality criteria, expertise and professional knowledge and efforts. We've had these remarks, of course, but this isn't about those remarks because we won't be able to put them into the amendments to the statutes, we don't write, we just confirm it. But those two promises, therefore full transparency and democratic and open professional selection of people who will work on television, are being added to the third and perhaps most important. HRT by definition not only from this law that I have quoted but from public institutions that must take care that all employees, especially media employees, journalists, have full freedom of choice and attitude, that such suggestions may be good for them but should not affect them. They must stick to their professional criteria, which is that the facts are important, and attitudes may vary and they have the right and the ability to have their position regardless of the principal and regardless of our reviews that we like, which we do not. Freedom, transparency and democratic leadership of the HRT in this statute have come to light, but like every act, the statute is a promise to stick to certain rules, and we as a council will have the opportunity to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27789	Thank you very much. Four replicas are on your exhibit. First up is Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27790	Dear Madam Vice President. Well, here's the thing. I've actually been encouraged by three sentences from the esteemed Cregar representative. Perhaps from the end, it is one that I fully agree with, that employees must have freedom of choice, attitude, have transparency in their actions and have freedom in what they stand for. At this point they're aware and we see that's not the case. Let's just remember a few days ago what happened to one HRT employee when she made a show that wasn't ideologically and worldly to the taste of bosses or some other power centers. It's been replaced, the show's been downloaded, etc. So that's exactly the opposite of what you're saying, unfortunately, and that's at this point the reality. I also fully agree with you when you spoke, and that is what the article 2 says. The Statute that HRT should promote public values, interests. But when we look at what's happening today with HRT lately, then we see that it's actually continuous, but it's very clearly slipping in the direction of one worldview and some valuable attitudes that match only a part of the population, in no case represents everything that exists in our population and the diversity of attitudes, worlds, political options, religious options and everything that exists in our society. Unfortunately, HRT systematically slips in the direction of only one such worldview. And secondly, you mentioned we chose the principal. Formally, it is true, it was chosen by the parliamentary majority, but we all know very well that he was actually elected somewhere else, long before the election process ended because he also said goodbye at his former workplace before the farce with the election was even finished, which lasted. People were calling, they were giving some of their programs, talking, and we all knew because it was published in the media that he said goodbye at his former workplace and that actually the thing was completely over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27791	Thank you. Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27792	Dear Mr. Reiner, I cannot agree with the whole of your position because it means taking up a certain political pressure in terms of editing on HRT. I, as a viewer, can have my own opinion, as a parliamentary representative of the pressure, and it can be seen even in the fact that we here are criticising and discussing what is not the point of the agenda. And as for the election of the Chief Director, of course most of them chose him, not the minority, but they didn't select him from any centers of power and were chosen by anyone outside of this House. As you know, the debate on this was very difficult, painful, and in no way determined just who would support it. We supported him as a whole and voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27793	Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27794	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Kregar, you were speaking constructively about this statute that was withdrawn from the procedure if you didn't know, with 3 votes to, 1 vote against, this statute that we're discussing today has been withdrawn from the proceedings at the session held on 14.1. We're discussing it with no reason today. The Supervisory Board has been deprived of its right to be completed by the Director-General within 10 days as requested by the Supervisory Board. I don't know if you as chairman of the Supervisory Board deliberately wanted to present today what happened at that session, do you really want this one-mindedness to continue to go on forever. Do you really want HTV to be the only one-party person to do what you want to do? So I will cite the mature example of the current morning when it is not conveyed what the President of the Croatian Parliament himself said, and he warned Minister Matic that indeed the use used by the minister was inappropriate for the Croatian Parliament, regardless of the issue being carried out. It was cut out on HTV and it was not shown when the president of the Croatian Parliament intervened. Imagine the extremes we've come to today, since the statute was withdrawn by the Supervisory Board with 3 members to withdraw and 10 days to complete and correct. And what are we talking about today, anyway? We're discussing the material the Supervisory Board pulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27795	The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27796	The Supervisory Board has officially sent only this proposal and it meets the conditions of the procedure. That this is the proposal of the Director-General, that he was adopted on the Supervisory Board and that he was addressed to the Parliament. For the second proposal you know about, I'd like them to pass the same bill of procedure. Not yet. And as for the continuation of this replica of yours, I'm sorry, but I've been very clear, and I hope to say that we won't determine what they're going to publish on television. And it wouldn't be good to have a debate at the HRT college tomorrow about what you are and what I thought was good or bad. That's their thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27797	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27798	I wasn't planning on replicating. As far as deadlines are concerned, deadlines are only important in the adoption and signing of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because on that contract, I mean Professor Craiger when we talk about this issue whether the Statute will be confirmed today or in seven days I don't think it's that important. This is important for the contract, and we are most seriously late in the contract and the contract is based on an entire system of state aid because HRT can therefore exercise the right to kill state support or to subscribe. That's very important, and we're almost 20 days behind on the signature. It hasn't been signed yet. Not to say that no contract has been published which is also being warned by NGOs and civil society associations. As far as commenting on the program is concerned. If it is stated on the Programme Council that the position was 35 guests in the autumn scheme, and the opposition is only a few and that the ratio is six-one, if this is the official data presented there, I do not understand why the parliamentary representative would not be able to comment. I think it's his responsibility. Because this is certainly proof that the programme does not show all the diversity of Croatian society or society in the Republic of Croatia. And what I wanted to say completely was absolute freedom to journalists and editors on Croatian TV, but also absolute responsibility to the law. Especially under the Law on Croatian Television and respect for the contract signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, if that's the case, then no editor can do it because he thinks some reporter made a false contribution to canceling the show that was financed by the way directly from the state budget. He can't, because it's illegal. Because, especially in the law, there's a provision that we have an obligation to do emissions towards emigration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27799	Thank you very much. Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27800	I thank Mr. Mesic because I have thought about your attitudes that you and the MPs often repeat. And I only have in response to the replica to say three things, facts. First, yesterday there was a contract at the government and as long as I read 20 days late we are, but you've advocated that the deadlines are not so, now in your presentation, that what would mean 7 days of delay. And that's another thing I'm going to comment on. I'm not up for a delay because I don't think it's a good policy to buy time and sell fog. We have been here for months postponing and prolonging decisions that are important for the resolution of the financial and structural situation on Croatian radio television. As for selling fog here, we're not discussing the Statute anymore, we're discussing the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27801	Thank you. And the last line, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27802	Dear Professor, I think it was your lapus, probably. You told me the MPs we chose the editor-in-chief. We didn't choose the editor-in-chief, we chose the CEO, most of the members of the Programme Council and most of the members of the Supervisory Board. So the viewers wouldn't be mistaken if we chose the editor-in-chief. And you said one sentence that I disagree with, it's to the press not to influence our suggestions. I would be very unhappy not to respect suggestions, lack of criteria, privatizing public media, serving clans and powers, private economicizing of the public media. It's not our intention, at least it's not my policy to edit the program. But it is my duty to point out problems in Croatian broadcasting and programming. So, don't get involved in the self-editation process. But what is about both the criteria and all the flaws we see on Croatia's broadcasting is just a sign that Croatian broadcasting is not yet what we want public media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27803	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's my colleague Josip Boric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27804	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So here I am in my debate talking about the Statute as stated by my colleague Kregar, but in his own way. Because I think if I just said what bothers me, maybe my debate would only take a minute. I think we have the right to say our opinions, including the programme we're looking at today, regardless of what we're discussing today, only the Statute. I will refer to Article 2(1) and (2) of the Statute. In the first paragraph, it states that in carrying out its activities HRT is independent of any political influence and pressure. That's enough so we can say what we think about whether he's independent or not. We have such a similar expression in almost every agency established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They're all independent, but we have a fact, we have a practice that she put into the division of the Ministry of Economy, let's say one of the HANDA agencies. The question arises whether it has become independent or is dependent on the political influences of the minister or the ministry, we have seen according to HANFA, according to HANDA, according to HERA that these agencies are not independent in view of the decisions they make. It is my impression that HRT has become the 20th first ministry of the government in the hay, although it is responsible for informing the Croatian public and with the task of improving Croatian reality. That's my impression, maybe someone disagrees with him. I don't want to do editorial work here, but I'm a subscriber who pays 960 kuna a year to buy a product and I think as an agent, as one of the few in the Republic of Croatia, of the rare subscribers I have a chance here in the Assembly to say what bothers me because I buy a product for 960 kuna. I think it's our right. And when we hear from previous discussions that 35 ministers' guests in the central journal have only three months of autumn schemes and only a few of the opposition, can we leave in the first and second words of this kind saying that this institution, this television is independent, I don't think it is, we have a ratio of 6:1. For several months now, almost a whole year through some information shows, it has been going through a mantra one sentence or sentence: "There is no opposition in the Croatian Parliament." And then the president at the end of the year gives statistics and says 7,000 announcements during the year, of which 75% of the opposition announcements, is that a real picture to the outside? I don't think so, and that's why I find this article questionable. We had a recent current watch. From that report and I looked at it, it turned out that I wasn't sitting in this House, that maybe I was out in Mark's square or in another parliament because the prime minister who didn't answer any of the questions of the opposition had already banged his philosophy or that I know all the theories, because he was so superior to the opposition that he didn't touch the issue of the economy, because according to this report, it was supposed to turn out that the opposition of the maltera in this house on the current clock was supposed to start a single company and hire a contract of at least a thousand people to be relevant to the economy. What did the unemployment report look like? In the central journal, a number of 370,000 appeared, 0.89, in one second, and the second one had already disappeared, it was the central diary. And the most important issue of each and these governments, the impact of politics is very visible, and it also burdens HTV employees but also burdens the policy that due to such information emissions gets the wrong impression of its work. They get the impression that they're successful and we see for ourselves how in reality that success looks. I think we're the republic that per capita has the most television, local, regional radio stations in the world. It's almost impossible for that oldest grandmother somewhere in the wrong path not to know what her mayor was doing that day, what all ministers were doing, parliamentary representatives in the Republic of Croatia. This amount of information emissions led to the child in kindergarten knowing all the ministers, all the presidents, almost all the politicians. Is that the goal of public television? What about ratings? HRT boasts the ratings it says for the first nine months of 2012. 29.9% at the level of all programs and that's half as much as some next commercial television that has five times less budgets, five times much less space opportunities and a lot less employees. The question is, can we then rationalise the business, can we create a different public service, because item 11 orders under this statute that we should have three state radio channels, eight regional, four state TV programs. What do we have with four national TV programs? At better times when HRT stood better financially, we had two channels and HRT plus as an addition but very few viewers. Now at a time of crisis and recession, we raise two more channels, and let's look at what these channels offer, what their ratings are by statistics, one to two percent of the total population per day. With this HRT 4 that appeared recently as some kind of information channel that doesn't even have teletext, you can't as an ordinary citizen find out what you're looking at at that moment, it's like something that needs to be developed, which will at some point prove to be a complete success. And what happens? Recycling the same news 10 times a day. We're the state with the most informative emissions on all the channels in the world. Well, no wonder that kid in kindergarten knows the names of every minister, prime minister. There is no such thing in other countries. I was recently in Austria. They have two channels with eight regional radio stations and that's all. And with that they satisfy twice the size of a country and half the population of a twice the size of a country. I don't think this HRT 4 is a hit, especially with HRT 3. The question is, why isn't this channel meant for children and young people when everyone swears to them? Why isn't it meant for sports? See where the sport went from all channels? What do we have a chance to watch? European and world championships. Tonight's gonna be HTV's highest score 2, we've got semifinals. But what in all the other days? Everything got commercialized and ended up on private channels. Why did HRT give up the sports program? We can watch the Olympics every 4 years or European championships or world championships if they're attractive sports. I think we have a right to say that because we're subscribers because we pay for the product. And some other phenomena that are visible, and they talk about the appearance of the same people who comment on certain values on that television in the central journals. If the question of morality is spoken by Mr. Puhovski if I'm not mistaken, if it's a question of the economy of the growth assessment, then we have an analyst from one bank. I wonder if these people are volunteers there or are bound by a labor contract, is that something people notice? I think this statute should be completed. that it's not all the way. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27805	Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27806	If it wasn't for the rest of it, and we heard that it was also withdrawn and that today it might be pointless to talk about something that is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27807	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your display. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27808	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Boric. You've described what it should be and how it should be when it comes to public television. However, public television, which has its own supervisory board and supervisory board, has its own meetings and makes its own decisions. The decisions of the Supervisory Board, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, are contrary to today's debate in the Croatian Parliament. So there is a colleague with us who should explain to us whether it is true that the 14.1. Supervisory Board with three votes and 1 against has decided to withdraw the proposal for conclusions, and that the statutes are withdrawn from the procedure, that they will be completed and that within 10 days, the Director-General will adopt a new proposal to split the total expenditures of HRT into public and commercial ones to be included in the Statute of the HRT. As long as you're here with us, Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board as a proposing, tell us, did you hold session 14.1. Have the findings on the withdrawal of the statutes and the work done by the Director-General been given as your order? Is it a 10-day deadline? And why are we in the Croatian Parliament today discussing something that has not been completed? We're discussing a statute that came into the procedure last year, and you've made your decisions on December 13, 2012 has come into procedure, and you've made 14.1.? Tell me if these changes were made by the Supervisory Board and why we're not familiar with it today in your opening speech, and then you can conclude in the end that we're discussing something that's not metric, which is not corrected. And what is wrong with your powers as a supervisory board? [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27809	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. Thank you very much. We're going to the next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27810	Your Honor, Mr. President. So MP Boris said HTV unfortunately becomes the 21st ministerial office of this government. And that's what made me actually say in the follow-up to what I said in the previous line, of course it's possible that such options are possible. And some countries in the world have state television. It's no better or worse than public television. And this television can indeed today and must be called state television, not more public television, and in fact my proposal would be to simply make it legitimate. Why do we always play some game and claim it's public television when it's national television? It exists in many countries. Some countries have it and of course it's established, it's so defined and it exists. With the government changing again, that's all. What I would like to say in evidence is just to look at how it was followed up in the morning two days ago by the main Information Show "Dnevnik" in 20.00 HRT and commercial TV. Much more objective, much more detailed than commercial television than the main information emissions of HRT. That's exactly in favor of this, and unfortunately it's not public television anymore, but it's become state television, so let's call it that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27811	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27812	Thank you very much. Well, I agree, Mr. Rainer, in your statement, whether it's state or public. But there's a difference between that. If it will be state-owned, it will be a joy to the Croatian public because it will not be necessary to pay the subscription, the state will assume on itself a billion kuna commitments and I believe that it would cheer up the Croatian public then politics would have the right to do what it does under public television. But when it's public then, according to the law, citizens pay the same price, I said what, 960 kuna a year, and they're forced to pay it, they don't have a choice. In other countries there are smart cards, smart technology, you pay with these cards what you want to watch, and even if you want to watch HRT pay how much it costs. However, we avoid it, and in the time of the 21st century, because there is a desire, and obviously the will of politics to create a picture of the public as created from the last current clock. Then all that was going on here was a full 3.5-hour stop in a minute where a minister with a completely trivial thing talking about toilet paper became a breaking news story, and we parliamentary representatives were then wondering if we were sitting in this home at the time and whether there were debates and good and valuable moments that the Croatian public needed to know. Of course, it then creates a picture in the Croatian public that we are people who are well paid, that do no work, do stupid things and represent Croatian citizens. I think that kind of practice should stop because we actually sat for 12.5 hours yesterday as Parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27813	Thank you very much. And the third replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27814	Thank you very much. I am fully aware of what you are saying, so I am sorry that here in the transfer to the 4th channel of HRT has not been seen and your inquiry to the prime minister, who was asked by the prime minister, even though that answer is not even important because it was indeed a variation on the subject and dissipation that you said philosophy itself. It was much more important for this public newscast to pass on the Prime Minister's statement, for example. that this year began excitingly, in Nero style after two explosions in Zagreb. Or not to pass on the same as you were not conveying the warning of Mr. President Leka's Parliament to Mr. Matic for inappropriate speeches in this House of Commons. And as for HRT4, he's only created by the same principle as that Energy Center, to employ similar personnel and those who, here's an example these days of hiring people through a relationship right on HRT4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27815	And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27816	Here's a very short one. We heard yesterday a solution by the Minister of Labour on how to resolve unemployment and 370,000 unemployed in Croatia. He said it very simply, he said we'd settle it by opening jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27817	Thank you, too. And the next debate by the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27818	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, indeed, this television of ours in these years, although today is something else, today is the Statute of the HRT, and I will finally say something about it, even though when we look at Mr. Djakic's debate and his replicas, we are actually doing it on principle today, and when it comes to the Supervisory Board, and also about the Director-General, my concern is to move on to another. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament should resolve the doubts held by the Supervisory Board and the Chief Director in connection with the new statutes. So it's up to us here today to judge it. Clearly, the verdict has already been passed, so I think that given the parliamentary majority there is nothing to talk about the statutes because that is how the Supervisory Board, the insistent and representative of the Supervisory Board, is silent and will not say what it was on January 14th. Therefore, parliamentary representatives are those to whom some responsibility has been transferred for the adoption of a new statute rather than reaching an agreement on the Board itself, with the opinion of the Director-General. But when you look at the statutes yourself, then you see well here to intertwine jurisdiction, so it's a colossal that hasn't been resolved to the end, which is the responsibility and task of the Supervisory Board, and what is the principal director. And then that's exactly why we've been here today in this debate for quite a while and we have quite a different opinion. If it were true on our television, I would tell the party television that Boric said here he shows a lot of things, that not to say they celebrate most of all the words of some people such as the random state of Croatia by the prime minister or that the Croats are a paradoxic people or that the year has started as exciting as I said before, it is after two bombs that exploded in Zagreb that is more than obvious. So whether it's a public interest, whether it's a public value, I don't think it is, but maybe it's someone's. When you compare what the Supervisory Board should worry about, and that's in his task and financial plan and everything that follows, and that's a billion and a half kuna as much as the total budget of HTV and when we take that so-called. An unfortunate subscription or what's called a tax in official circles and it's officially called a TV fee, then there are a lot of cases where the Supervisory Board should think about it and maybe it's one of his important tasks. Two pensioners living out of 3,000 kuna, one 1600, one 1400, pay 80 kuna tax. When one of them dies remains the pension of the other, its incomes are significantly reduced, but the fee remains 80 kuna. That's the kind of thing I'd like the Supervisory Board to think about. And what has been brought here today, so it is quite clear to us that, with the political colour of HTV, with the pressures being put on not to tell editors and those who work alongside clans that are recorded in Croatian television, with various mixes, so editor shifts, V.D. functions. and then retaining salaries at the same level as before in Croatian TV, so three, four, five, six years ago you have a V.D. The editors have those who have been removed but the salaries remain the same. And that's really one I'd say I'm not going to say horror, maybe it's a difficult thing to say, but it's as if it's chosen by Djelo Hadziselimovic and we're here today to discuss how it's matter for this debate not only about the Statute, but also clearly about the programme, because it's very connected to each other in view of that in point, in Article 2, point 1, point 1, point 1 and 2, in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2, it's written about the Croatian Television Programme, so I don't think it's here as it is. Cregar said today that we're discussing the program rather than being instructed to discuss the program. And by the way if anything else. Here is a good example of what I have already said: transfer or comment on the inauguration of US President Obama where we have actually learned well about fashion aspects, fashion views of commentators, not what the President of America is telling us, or what its new mandate for Croatia and for the politics of the Republic of Croatia will mean, in the end, and even for any problems in Croatia's accession to the EU on July 1st. It is also true that we have adopted here by harmonising our legal gain with the European acquis on the availability of data, therefore we have regulated it legally. However, here in Article 47, we have a specific proposal, namely the Supervisory Board, that he may have the power not to say secretly with 10 million kuna. Which the mayor of any city in Croatia has the right to so-called A discreet right to have no decision of the City Council with 10 million kuna. Which mayor or mayor of the municipality, the mayor of which? Not one. And the director, the director-in-chief of Croatian television, will have the right to conclude a variety of secret jobs without so much public insight and without the Board's insight. So where are we? Where do we live? What's going on here? I am indeed what Mr. Djurovic said on behalf of the club against, for such a statute cannot really be voted on. And if it is true that 14.1. was such a result of a meeting or a session of the Supervisory Board, then we are actually lying here and burning needlessly if we are to say that this Statute is delayed and that it was not properly conducted to attend the session of the Parliament. What are we discussing today? That's why I'm in an individual debate against this Statute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27819	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Boro, it's clear that we've chosen the Supervisory Board, which is made up of five members. One member represents the workers, one member is from the opposition, three members are from the ruling furniture. And at this session held on 14.1. the three members were against, one for and concluded that the Statute was withdrawn to be completed in 10 days. And I believe that what it says in the new Statute's proposal must be clearly used now, which is that, according to the order of the Croatian Supervisory Board, an irregularity is corrected in accordance with the decisions, and it is given to work. Well, that's clear. What does the Supervisory Board mean if its decisions are not implemented? What does the Programme Council mean if the program will be run by the CEO himself? Which means really the Supervisory Board if it can say that, that Statute has to go the way I wrote it and it can't be any different. What is this Supervisory Board really about then? Marionta. In its decision-making process he should monitor, he should propose and his conclusions should be included in those acts which will be relevant for the clear and transparent management of Croatian television. And what I want to highlight to the Programme Council is from here, which is to look at how many Partizan films have recently been on Croatian television, and how much is the anniversary of the defensive deaths followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27821	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27822	Thank you very much. Mr Djakic, to this first part of your step, or replicas, I can answer that I have come to doubt whether there should be a Supervisory Board at all. He doesn't have any functions. He can bring nothing, nor can he propose a new Statute to the Croatian Parliament without being approved by the Director General. So what's the Supervisory Board for anyway? And the other part, indeed, is already puking to me from Kozara, Bata Zivojinović, Ljubisa Samardzic, and all others. So what Mr. Austrian artist said and his name was Hundert Wasser said to himself the people who cut their roots can't grow as well as the plant, as well as the tree. So when we watched anything or when it was made any movie, the Homeland War series? Well never, not even when you were your HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27823	Thank you very much. And the next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27824	My dear colleague, very briefly. The new TV shut down Red Carpet, you were talking about that in Dnevnik 3 was a commentary of Mrs. Obama's clothes then HRT entered in the journal 3 Red Carpet, so somehow the viewers had to, as far as partisan films were concerned, I love them, they're our cowboys, and the movies about the Homeland War weren't made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27825	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27826	This part about Red Carpet I will not even answer, but this part about the Homeland War, or about not only the Homeland War, but also Croatian history. We marked the anniversary of the fall of Ironski in Turkish hands ten days ago, it's so-called. Croatia's Alamo, where often 28 soldiers under the command of Nikola Ozegovic, froze at the fortress in Gvosdanski and refused to surrender to Turkish hands. It's never on Croatian television. By this we may not need Djelo Hadziselimovic, we can record a series about it rather than give Sulejman magnificent and such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27827	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of representatives reported for a ten-minute debate. The president of the HRT Supervisory Board, respected Viktor Gotovina in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27828	Dear President of the Parliament, parliamentary officials, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I heard, or heard, because here I am on behalf of the HRT Supervisory Board all comments, comments, remarks and actions, they are all considered good, important and well-intentioned. As such, I will transfer them to all members of the Supervisory Board, to the Director General, and ask them to be transferred to other bodies and professional services to take them into consideration. Thank you for that. Following the procedure and the Law on HRT on a proposal from the Director-General and in content and in accordance with the Law on HTR following the debate and decision on the Supervisory Board of the HRT in respect of which the Director-General has received all the substantive interventions of members of the HRT Supervisory Board, this Statute, which is now before you in the parliamentary procedure, was unanimously adopted. Afterwards, HRT professional services acted according to all decisions of the Croatian Supervisory Board regarding the delivery of the Statutes to the Croatian Assembly. The procedure of the Law on HRT provides for the confirmation of the statutes of the HRT to be established and led by the Croatian Parliament. As a member of the Supervisory Board, I ask his acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27829	Thank you very much. You weren't on time. Here are the replicas, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27830	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll just be brief. It is true that a unanimous decision was taken at the second session of the Supervisory Board to refer this statute to the Croatian Parliament, but it is equally true that the same supervisory board with three votes to withdraw the statutes and gave this... The statutes and that's the truth you have to face today. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Three votes to withdraw the statutes and one against him has been withdrawn. And today we are voting and discussing something that the Supervisory Board has withdrawn, which is all I want to say and get to know the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27831	Your Honor. I'm familiar with things, so I'll tell you what. It is true that the chairman of the Supervisory Board presented to the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament. What you were saying is not true for one simple reason why the decision has not come to the Croatian Parliament, nor is it possible for the statutes to cancel the Board of Supervisors because they do not have the authority. Accordingly, we put it in the procedure and published what has come under the Law on HRT in the Croatian Parliament, so I ask you to take this into account both you and who listens to us. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate now. We will vote on that when the conditions are met, or within minutes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what and who?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27832	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 216.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27833	In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27834	When you, as president and president, are correcting me to say that I am wrong and that my claim is not correct. My claim is correct, the record is made, the vote is done, the supervisory board has worked and has reached conclusions that should be respected. The head director of the HRT had to amend his proposal within ten days so that everything in it was what the Supervisory Board had put in place as an objection to that statute which was in the procedure. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27835	Dear representative and for your sake and again for the sake of the Croatian public, no injured Rules of Procedure. If you think I'm wrong, I refer you to the provisions of the statutes that bind you to the point of view of that injury by the competent authority. If you do not do so, I will consider that you have deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you will have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure in the course of this session. Do we understand each other? We did. Thank you very much. The Statute of the HRT-confirmation The debate on the Statute has been concluded. I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the statutes of the HRT, which was submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT Act of 13. December 2012 Please make a statement. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most votes, 90 votes in favour and 29 votes against were proposed to confirm the HRT statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27838	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session of 23 January of this year the written request of MP Miljan Brkic of 16 January 2013 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he would put his representative mandate to rest on the basis of Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Miljan Brkic was elected representative in the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as HDZ candidate, the political party is in accordance with Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has appointed the deputy representative of Ms. Maria Rapo. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Millian Brkic's parliamentary mandate, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative of Maria Rapo. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make decisions on the start of the term of office of MP Miljan Brkic on 16 January 2013 and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, Maria Rapo, on 25 January 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27839	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I find there are no interested. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as we just heard. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that the proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission was reached unanimously with 120 votes in favour. Congratulations on the election of deputy deputies. He'll give the solemn oath when he's here in Parliament. We're going to vote on other points. Please, colleagues and colleagues, can you please go to places where the quorum can be determined? Thank you. Please take your seats so we can determine the quorum. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, honourable colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, allow me to take that on the basis of Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose an addition of the agenda to the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Any of the MPs object to including this item on the agenda? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've completed the agenda. We're moving on to a debate on the agenda. First of all, - Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Representative Petar Cobanković Please be the chairman of the commission, the respected Gordan Sobol, to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27841	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 18th session held on 20 March this year on the resignation of MP Petar Cobankovic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, as well as Article 10. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Petar Cobankovic was elected representative in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and that his resignation met the legal and business conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term. In line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Mandatno-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the termination of the parliamentary term of office and on the date of the decision of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. on 22 March 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27842	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, the proposed decision has been made. - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Goran Beus Richembergh, representative at the Croatian Parliament Please president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission respected Gordan Sobol to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27843	My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 18th session held on 20 March of this year the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Ante Rotim of Donja Lomnica for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Goran Beus Richembergh for the criminal offence referred to in Article 148(2). Penalty law. Goran Beus Richembergh is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, no criminal proceedings can be initiated or conducted. Council Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 is amended as follows: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament suggest that the decision be taken to deny the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Agent Goran Beus Richembergh in the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Ante Rotima of Donja Lomnica during the term of the parliamentary term of office. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has taken a unique position in the case of private prosecutors, as well as in cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters into the position of a state attorney because the state lawyer found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of a criminal proceedings, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Assembly a denial of the authorisation, and the criminal proceedings may be initiated even after the end of the term of office, since the limitation does not run until there are reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27844	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of 116 votes in favour and 1 abstention. c)Mandatory-Immunity Commission's report on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Giovanni Sponza, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I'd like the President of the Committee of Honored Gordan Sobol to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27845	At the 18th session held on 20 March, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Plini Kukurin of Bala for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Giovanni Sponze for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(1) and (2). Penalty law. Giovanni Sponza is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and according to the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, he has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament cannot be initiated or prosecuted. The mandate-immunity committee shall propose to the Croatian Parliament to decide that during the term of the parliamentary term of office, authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Giovanni Sponze on the private suit of Plini Kukurina of Balo for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 200(1) and 2. The Penal Code, as in other cases in the case of private prosecutors, and when, as a damage to the subject as a subsidiary prosecutor, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation because the criminal proceedings can be initiated even after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are justified reasons why the procedure cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27846	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 117 votes in favour. Let's go back to the election and appointments. The selection of the chairman of the committee to decide on a conflict of interest and the selection of members of the commission to decide on a conflict of interest. In accordance with Article 31 of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Croatian Parliament by secret vote, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, elects the president and four members of the committee to decide on a conflict of interest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law was submitted by a single final list for the selection of the chairman of the commission and a single final list for the selection of members of the commission. Does the chairman of the selection, appointment and administrative committee want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers and Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27848	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must have heard one good thing and, in my opinion, an exact explanation which is actually a conflict of interest. One man said it was the lobby of corruption. In February 2011, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests was adopted, and in January 2012, we intervened in its contents, and in the meantime the Constitutional Court was involved in the content of this law. Since February 2011 and especially after the disbandment of the previous Assembly What was happening in Croatia in the conflict of interest? Nothing for two years, nor has this commission acquired any reputation, importance and responsibility in the Croatian public or in Croatian politicians. Was one of the only political responsibilities in the course of the law that we have in those two years been the subject of questioning, resignation, alteration or anything else, and why did we adopt this law? With such behaviour in the past two years in Croatia, we have offended the Institute of Conflict of Interest and the purpose of the commission. And now we have until a certain date to choose a commission. According to the number of applications if I have the correct data, and there were 199 reportedly, we have a huge number of experts in Croatia who are very well aware of this matter and who wanted to qualify or tried to qualify for the choice. The parent board for the selection and appointment of security clearance sent 103 applications, I suppose I have the exact same information. And then comes the meeting of the Board of Selection and the appointment to which the chairman of the board comes with a list of 10 names and says that's our proposal. Take it or leave it. Whose proposal? Ours. I must remind myself that in the last term and when the law was passed in February 2011, it was required that the selection of the commission be done by a two-thirds majority. I joined that one. What, meanwhile, changed that the commission that was completely newly formed and under the new law did not need a two-thirds majority? That's not what law says, most of the total number. Okay. I allow the ruling to change their minds against the opposition. Is that smart or not, let's let it go now. But now I ask, what is the procedure of those who, two years ago, demanded a two-thirds majority in the Assembly in the election of the commission, and today they come to the board and this is our 10 items take or leave and say "go ahead and vote." There were situations in this House I remember them in the Committee on the Constitution when there were many more candidates than they were elected. And then what were we doing? The members of the board, by secret vote, narrowed down the lists of candidates. One lap, two laps, I think even when the Constitutional Court candidate was proposed, we applied that model to allow the parent working body to come to the plenary session with maximum agreement. Which candidates? ...of the three they got a positive or passed security check and could be potential candidates. Try reading it from this proposal. Why did the committee not deal with the democratic principle that members of the committee in this way, regardless of whose representatives, and they listened to them, were holding talks with them with a list of 10 candidates? There are opposition representatives on the board, but most of them have a ruling one. And it's probably that way again, maybe those same 10 would come, maybe they wouldn't. By protesting and strongly against such a way of this committee led by counterpart Lucin, and this is not the first time that this committee comes here, it is not the first time that members of the board of opposition are put in such a position the representatives of the Croatian Labourers will approach the vote and cancel the ballot and we will not vote for anyone. We won't. You can continue to practice the strength of the majority, but not in public speeches then, not after the meeting of the Assembly Presidency to the citizens and tell us how we are going to do differently now, how the opposition will be in a better and different position when such important things are done in this way. Why are there working bodies? Why is there a committee on it if such a democratic principle has not been implemented? And how is it that representatives of the SDP who in past times have always insisted on such a moaning and on working bodies suddenly don't accept it when someone else is looking for it? For Europe's sake, we need to form this commission, and that's why they put together 10 candidacys, so you can vote and choose. And this could have been over before. And with two such different political attitudes when two-thirds are first sought, and then on the board to act and to come before the Croatian Parliament is not good. So if that's what you've already decided, if you've already chosen and divided the jokes out of those 10 which 5 numbers or names you have to round up, go through it, do it. Then I wonder why you spent a week talking to the candidates, why 103 candidates sent for a security assessment when you obviously made the list before, and you were able to solve it in the first session practically. Double criteria, double political messages, double relationships, depending on whether you're in power or opposition. It's unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27849	Thank you very much. A single replica was reported to your presentation. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27850	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lesar told a lie five times, so I came on board and said take it or leave it. So 16 plus the service, there were 16 along with the staff of the board, not once in an hour of the session I didn't say that. I came with the proposal as my proposal, or several of us and our colleagues did not want to discuss it. Comrade Lesar, if you don't fall into the trap that you are cheating on the Croatian public for the third time, it would be good for you to inform me or the staff of the committee that was at the board meeting or to talk to your member, so if you wish, I will be present. And not me. Someone else in the opposition can. Therefore, I would ask you not to resort to deception when carrying out what was at the board's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27851	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27852	Comrade Lucin, choose your words when you speak to me. I didn't say you said, said or wrote, take it or leave it. I was quoting you as to whose suggestion it was, you said ours. It's access, the system you take or leave. It's a message we'll vote it that way, if you want to take it, if you don't leave it. I didn't quote you. That's the first one. Secondly, is this the essence of who, what, how, who was interpreted or the way you acted and yourself as chairman of the board and most of the committee. Do we want to discuss the democratic procedure or your vanity in a sentence that you have misheard? This is obviously more important to you than the democratic procedure and democratic standards in parliament. I'm sorry, but you've been in the Parliament for a very long time, and you're always trying to replace the essence with vanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27853	Thank you very much. We're going forward with the debate. HDZ Club and Honorable Representative Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27854	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to turn my back on the danger that I'm quoting someone, so they might be correcting me, but I'm not just going by name, but I'm not just quoting what we've heard so many times, and that's probably the second one, and this is a different government, thinking from the government and the parliamentary majority that we have today, and I think I've quoted exactly those who talked about it. And the event and the proposal of the Selection and Appointing Committee is one small icon precisely in what this other one is and what a different power this is. Therefore, not to repeat what my colleague Lesar was talking about, I will remind you of the problem and the history followed by the Commission on the decision of conflict of interest that the parliamentary majority has always left space and opposition to participate in some, we have held and we hold today very important bodies for the Republic of Croatia and for the special interests of its citizens. So, for example. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests was attended by ruling and opposition politicians, regardless of whether they were presented through their parliamentary representatives or people from the civil sector, or by prominent experts who participated in the commission. I will also remind you, the head director of HRT, the Programme Council, were appointed by the general agreement, the consensus of parliamentary parties and even the wider consensus of the interested public. There was once a Committee on European Integration, which was given into the jurisdiction of opposition parties when HDZ led the parliamentary majority. The National Council for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union was also chaired by an opposition representative, or representative, because we held that this is how the opposition in parliament can show its strength and be the control mechanism of the ruling majority. Today we got something else, today we got after two years of obstruction, difficulties in the work of the commission that should be decided on conflict of interest and its prevention, we got something, we got a list of 103 people who meet the prescribed conditions to become members of that commission. We've got a list of 10 of those who match the parliamentary majority. And regardless of whether it was in your form take or leave, we received a proposal that the opposition board members could not plead, or their statement was immaterial. So I'm going to warn you that the first incorrect information that came from the Selection Committee is the appointment that these are unanimously identified candidates for that commission. They are not unanimous but they have been chosen by majority and only by your votes because the other opposition members of the Selection Committee have not participated in the vote. That's a big difference. You might be able to explain yourself later. And this is an example of how the ruling majority saw democracy as the rule of the majority. First and first, if we were to be precise democracy is the rule of the people, not necessarily the rule of power of a certain majority as you do today, and we believed for a time that these anomalies and this arrogance of government are unique to the Croatian government. However, today you have put us in a position to see that the parliamentary majority is thinking the exact same way. For the first two years, you made it impossible for that commission to work at all. Remember the fact that when the law was passed as one of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to join the EU that you were first opposed to law-making, and then against the appointment of the commission, so what counterpart Lesar said that commission had not worked for two years. We're wondering why this was in your best interest today. What my colleague, Lesar, told you how you acted I believed I wouldn't be able to quote the Prime Minister except for the fact that I don't know how it was handled in Baden Württembergo, and neither in Schleswig-holstein can I tell you what your Prime Minister was saying two years ago. You have submitted two amendments, asking in this House that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is elected by a majority of two-thirds of the MPs' votes, claiming that it is a guarantee of its independence. You didn't come here today to just choose the common majority, but you've identified 10 candidates, five of whom will become members of this committee. Technically, you haven't even solved the question of what will happen to those who are both candidates for a member and president. And what will happen to those who, for example, will not become president of whether they will necessarily be a member. But what is important I will refer to President Milanovic and his performance in this House on the same subject. In modern countries, in democratic states, in Western and liberal democracies, such bodies are what are commonly called in English pir rewiew or pyr control. So control among equals, supervision among equals in which usually the opposition in Parliament has a leading position in such a committee. Those are the words of the Prime Minister, so probably a warrant or a suggestion you're now doing exactly the opposite. This law is adopted by those who recognise themselves to be dishonest, empowering the body of experts who will be elected by the political majority in Parliament, most of all MPs in Parliament, and this is cited in the proposal's explanation as a crown argument of depolitisation of the body. Do you really believe that? You believe that today. Something happened in the meantime, obviously, because your MPs, and I quoted one of them from that time, as you all think today, obviously quite the opposite. My colleagues and colleagues, the lowest common denominator of our agreement, can be the lowest agreement that this commission is elected by a two-thirds majority in this House. That's your conclusion two years ago. Today not only is it about choosing the common majority of MPs which is a minor problem, today you impose exclusive solutions and assessments on how these candidates you have proposed made the best impression on you. We're all convinced these candidates gave you the best impression. But this is instead of a democratic leap towards a body that we'll believe is doing a reverse in democratic standards, unfortunately deep, deep into our past. And that's what we stand up to. The HDZ cannot support such a proposal, it cannot even say that this committee procedure has been carried out as the Rules of Procedure and the laws tell you to. And before you come out with such proposals, remember your own words from two years ago and ask yourself if things have changed to that extent that today your worldview has to be a worldview of the entire Republic of Croatia. What you are doing is suppressing democracy, suppressing freedom of opinion and expressing your own opinion in Parliament and advocating the poor government policy it has spent the last year. So we will be against this proposal. In fact, we don't think there's a chance for him to vote on him at all today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27855	Thank you very much. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is a respected representative of Zlatko Komadin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27856	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Mlakar said I quote something happened in the meantime. In the meantime, you've lost the election, and now it's under the law that you've passed, not us, you. You have passed this law and this is now the consequence of the completion of the process by law that you have passed, and you have refused our amendments if I remember correctly. I wasn't there, but that's what you said. I have no reason not to believe you. And you've also said that the practice was that in bodies such as that, and the opposition, which means, in effect, no, you didn't say that, but it's predominant that you're about to talk about your and our members of the committee, which is not exactly some great democratic practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27857	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27858	It's an interesting replica of an esteemed colleague of Komadina because he was correcting something that I didn't actually say in my own words. But what I thought and why we advocated is the fact that in the work of the Parliamentary bodies, apart from your majority, there is also such an impressive participation of opposition as the control mechanism of your authority, and that is what you stood for today, regardless of the numbered situation while you were in opposition, it would be worth keeping at least the minimum of that dignity you were showing, so to give this opportunity today to those who are in opposition when you rule. However, unlike the authorities that respected the opposition and wanted to deal with important issues for this country, you are advertising everything. That was my position, Mr. Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27859	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27860	I don't understand you, my colleague. You're completely but completely illogical. You're not attacking the SDP, you're attacking yourself and your party. At the time when the law was applied, the SDP invested the amendment and asked for a two-thirds majority so that you did not accept it. Well, we wouldn't be in that problem today. So why are you jumping into your own stomach now? So why are you risking the whole public laughing at you right now? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27861	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27862	Mr. Track logic is an exact discipline and you and I obviously understand it differently. I did not talk about your statements of the type of bing-bang, pink-pong and so on, so let my logic make sense, and neither did I speak against the position of my party nor myself, saying that you who advocated a two-thirds majority in parliament in the election of certain officials do not today seek a semi-distant majority with which we agree, but we impose candidates who and that none of us will raise our hands you will vote without giving the opportunity to have a different opinion live in such a body. It's going to be the exclusive Paris police, I didn't want to quote you, everything your colleagues have said in lawmaking, about a party police who has more powers than the M.O., the financial police and the like, and what you and your colleagues have been talking about in law making, but we're saying that in a team of five people who will have powers under this law to investigate you and your colleagues who have been in conflict of interest for five years now, that's all they're saying is they'll finally be the ones to judge it. If you just name them, we already doubt their objectivity in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27863	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, now it's the HDSSB Club and Honorary Representative Dinko Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27864	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. My predecessors said, I would say quite crediblely conveyed the events with the board, but I am also a member of that committee, so I also participated directly in it, so then probably my colleague Lucin won't need to talk to your representatives. So first, on behalf of the club, I would say one important fact because of the Croatian public. We believe that today we need to elect a committee to decide on a conflict of interest. It needs to be chosen not only because it is our obligation to meet this requirement to join the EU, but it needs to be chosen for our sake, for the sake of the Croatian public. The fact that two years does not work and thanks to our failure to do so in the Croatian Parliament is not a good message to the Croatian public about our relationship with this problem and our work. I must admit that the way we started working when we started to finally solve this problem, on the board myself and the members of my club gave hope that everything would really take place in one good will and in a real democratic spirit, we also determined the stages through which it would be done, so we first narrowed down the candidates' circle towards their life experience, so we did remember a number of conversations with each of these candidates, and I would say that as members of the board we really made an effort to do our commitment not to us but to Croatian citizens in the most responsible way. And that second phase ended in a way that we once again narrowed down the candidates and that round of elected hundreds and some candidates sent in for a security check. It was in September last year if I'm not mistaken. We received a call for a session of the committee held yesterday at which, as point 3., it was stated that we would receive a report on the security check carried out, and in the previous point 2. it was said that because these are classified data the public cannot be present at that point. The media were while the minutes were being adopted, while it was decided to exclude them from further participation and after that, instead of moving to the third item of the agenda that should have been the Security Check Report, we get a document with a set list of candidates. Not a word about, and next to us is the assistant director of SOA, not a word about the agenda point. Now I'm not convincing what I've heard but what I've witnessed. I answered the word then and behind that of my colleagues and told the president that I was really embarrassed that we were all working until then I was convinced in good faith and in a democratic spirit. This last and last phase today, the stage of decision-making on this, lost its democratic principles, and it just turned into a simple farce. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, you should have at least acted out democracy, so, as we were in the first two stages of narrowing down the number of candidates, so we did yesterday, and so I suggested, and so did the other members of the committee who were not from the ruling majority, not to bring this list before the MPs today, but to allow or postpone the session for today morning, so that each of us board members, regardless of whether we come from the ruling majority or from the opposition, would have the right to propose one or two candidates for whom we decided on the basis of those first two parts of the selection of life experience, their résumé and a certain interview. And believe me, we wouldn't go out with 10 candidates, we would suggest one or maybe two. If 13 of us had proposed 2 each, we had 26 candidates, and then we could have been on the board, we should have done the job, that would have been democratic, and you would have 7 members, and that's how we always got to these 10. And we could do one round of voting for those 26 so narrow them down to 15, so make the 2nd round of voting and say of these 15 now we finally pick 10 and we know that it would be again maybe, maybe not. However, as you are Mr. President by order, I know it is not your decision, you have been ordered to do so, in such a way you have sent a bad message to the representatives, a bad message to the Croatian public, and you have finally thrown a shadow at today's candidate selection. I'll remind you of Article 42. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which, in the working bodies of the Parliament, therefore, states in Article 42, one, two, three, four, the 5th subparagraph, "the working body of the Parliament shall, after the debate has been held, take a position, or establish the proposals of the acts and report to the Parliament." First we had to conduct the debate and determine, so we had to determine the candidates for this act, and not you brought us the final act. Yesterday, there were no lists of candidates, the list of candidates was set either on Iblero's square or perhaps at the Ban Courts or at the SDP club. But we have what we have. You didn't give an opportunity to the board members, so it doesn't matter at all, we're not representatives there, we shouldn't have tried to behave like this or come from a majority or from a minority here in the Croatian Parliament. However, my colleague Komadina, by replicating my mind, told Mlakar at one point, so here we are leaving that bad practice that used to exist when we agreed that here is how much he would give ruling, and so much he would give opposition so we had said ours and yours, it was not good. Now we only have your candidates, it's more democratic than that. You said it wasn't democratic for you to have our candidates and your candidates, now it's more democratic to have only yours, not to enter the quality of these people who are here today. You know, we remember, and we know that there are several forms when democracy twists, when it's only apparent. This today, or this yesterday, and now it will end today is in the real socialist spirit of democracy. You have decisions to be democratic, and here's what we're going to remind you, in addition to the majority principle, there are still certain criteria that need to be met. One is equality, the other is freedom, the third is freedom of information, the fourth is freedom of expression, the fifth is an active electoral right and the sixth is an alternative that implies that the right decision can only be made if there are several alternatives. There's no alternative yesterday or today. And well said colleague Lesar, right, he didn't say that you said, I was in the session, take it or leave it. It's a principle called "take" or "leave" when you get someone to vote for it or you won't vote for it. I'm still going to underline the unanimous, you said it wasn't true, it says in the report in the act you sent here. Yeah, yeah, here, I'm reading to you. Page 2 of the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament is in accordance with Article 32(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and Article 123(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at the 20th session of the Committee held on 24 January 2013 unanimously established a final list for.... Here it says, unanimously. The board counts 13 members, is 7 unanimous, then you don't need 6. Unanimity by the ruling majority. That's right, that's how you should write it. You know what's worst, the worst thing is that, I already said this way you threw a shadow and today's choice of those who should be chosen, maybe there are candidates among them who deserve to be members of the commission, regardless of what we, each of us individually think, but you boasted yesterday that the media will be surprised when they see who's among the 10. There are former officials in the former HDZ government. Do you really think that, and you choose 5, you did it on purpose. You may have put some as fig leaves, and maybe some will pass, I don't say. But you're using cheap demagogue tricks and you've exposed yourself, we're revealing you now, and that's a bad message. We have another observation, of the 10 candidates proposed, 7 from Zagreb, 1 from Split, 1 from Zapresic, 1 from Duga Resa. I'm sorry, 7 of them, not 8, forgive me, it's not possible that only from Zagreb must all be candidates. We know that the SDP has a base and only here in Zagreb and you can achieve something on the results, even in Rijeka come well. But you do, and I'll remember that composition of the Council for Electronic Media, you made it out of seven members of 4 from Zagreb, 3 from Rijeka. Dalmatia and Slavonia nowhere. That's how it's gonna be now. And finally, I will conclude, it is bad that you have allowed such an important decision to be taken by the Central Committee of the SDP or by the ruling, come on, it is not the Central Committee anymore, which has been decided by the Central Body of the SDP, not the Croatian Parliament that should have done so. Yeah, it used to be called and... And the way you're introducing democracy now reminds you, and I'm going to remind you of that Marx saying, you should know it well, you should have learned a lesson, that history is always repeated twice, for the first time as a tragedy, and the second time as a farce. We once experienced a tragedy of democracy by the Communist party, and this democracy that you are now spending as followers of the former KPJ is a mere farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27865	Thank you very much. We have a report of a replica. Dear Representative Zlatko Komadina, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27866	Mr. President, thank you. I've got to take this call after my colleague got a little twisted, and he said, "What did I say?" I didn't say we'd only have ours, that's what you said. That's what you said. ... Yeah, that's what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the past term, I have said there have been practices that have chosen certain bodies by agreeing and you know that it was a practice. Yeah, for example. I don't know any of these suggestions, and as far as I'm concerned, none of them are members of any political party, which means no SDP. But you said something else in your discussion, in fact, you doubt the right of citizens to actually choose the majority and the right of that majority to then choose and decide. That's what you two are and it would probably last until then until you become most, then it would be all right... There's actually your concern that most people can pick and choose, imagine miracles. Well, it's more than most people can choose. And most importantly, what you suspect, you question the democratic standards of each of the individual members of this majority, which actually means that you doubt your own. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27867	Replica response, Honored Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27868	I don't doubt it, I have my opinions and I don't hesitate to say them out loud and clear, you know that. You didn't say it out loud, but now I repeat your words to Mr. Mlakar. You didn't say it out loud, but it's premise. Is that what you said? Right? It's understandable. Well, yeah, if you said it wasn't democratic that we had ours and yours, and now it's just you who chose the candidates. Then it is understood that they are only your candidates. You don't know any of them, they weren't members of the board. I'm not going to name anyone just to read one of the candidates' résumés, and we could find a lot of interesting ones. He says it like this. Working experience: Secretary of the Municipal Conference of the Association of Socialist Youth Zagreb – Medveščak '80-'81, etc. etc. So that's something you say is not a member of the SDP. All right, come on. Okay, okay. Wait a minute! That's the criterion by which you took it. The important thing, look at the important thing in all of this, the important thing in all of this is when you say we don't have any, we don't dispute the right to decide on any member of the board that comes from the ruling majority. It's their right. But you have denied us the right to board members who do not come from the ruling majority to propose to anyone at all. I gave it, my colleague Lucin testified to that and the other members of the board, and I proposed that he also be voted to postpone today and that we were given the opportunity to propose one or two things, which I had already told. You know how that proposal went? Six, six because even one representative from the ruling majority agreed to it first, but then they signaled her no, no, you can't raise your hand for it, so then there was seven. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27869	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn and respected representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27870	Dear colleagues and colleagues, everyone has the right to think that elsewhere they decide how they decide in their own party and in their own society or in their own club and to think that others do the same. They don't, but the public will decide whose opinion is right and correct. The conflict of interest is a very important thing and to which absolutely Croatian citizens and citizens are extremely sensitive and are rightly sensitive because the conflict of interest in the Republic of Croatia has become the way the government behaves in recent years. Unfortunately, and for this reason we should not be happy, nor should we at that time in the opposition be in particular happier now that we had a country where corruption and conflict of interest was organised at the top of the government and that is the problem. And that is why the team is more of a conflict of interest and this commission is much more important, very important because of the experiences that Croatian citizens now see daily in court proceedings. The commission as an institution will remind first of all Croatian citizens was seriously disabling the moment when it began to deal with the fantastically expensive watches of an untouchable one at that time the leader of the ruling party in Croatia and the prime minister of the Croatian government. And that's when the complete breakdown of the system started, as far as we can tell it, the Commission's decision to conflict of interest. And that's a fact. There are witnesses in this assembly. Some have also led this commission, experienced pressures and threats from the same gentleman I will not mention. You've often mentioned him, yelled, yelled, pounded, praised him for all his mouths for years. You passed the law in the last year of your term. You had these reasons and our position at the time that we said it was an extremely important institution in which a consensus should be found in the Croatian Parliament and all political options should be involved today. And yes, and such a very important institution and such a commission would be good to choose with a two-thirds majority and a deal between parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament. We also warned at that time about the provisions of the laws that you have passed that are not good, that they are against constitutional and that they turn out to be looking for a resignation after the eventual loss of parliamentary elections through their appointed committee. Yes, and these were our attitudes, and these attitudes are still the same today. Those views were confirmed in a certain way by the Constitutional Court by deleting certain provisions that we warned you about when you passed that law. I should remind the Croatian public that the ruling HDZ party with its coalition partners then had a majority in this House in 2011 when it passed the law. In April, June and October, he also tried to choose the Commission to decide on the prevention of conflicts of interest. That means he hasn't had a majority in this House all year. What was the parliamentary majority then that year when they failed to vote three times. And no one made it impossible as Mr. Mlakar said here that choice, you had most of it, you had government, you had most of it. Why didn't you choose that? And yes, by respecting the observations of the Constitutional Court, we have made certain changes and our wish was then and the Croatian public knows well and it was also a public debate and we have prepared a proposal for a new Law to prevent conflicts of interest and we have informed the Croatian public about it. But at that time, the souls who ran better in Brussels and the European Commission found themselves complaining that we were changing the Law on the Prevention of Interest, that we were changing it, and of course we were warned that we should not do it. Today from this pay phone, the same party says it should have been changed and a lawsuit was running in Brussels. What is important as a parliamentary majority, we have proposed candidates, about their quality, values and what will be tried by the public in order to judge their work and their quality in parallel with it will judge us whether we have made good decisions or have not made them. We do not run away from decisions that were good or bad, where it is fortunate that some before us had made that decision and that decision and we are in decisions that were in the national interest and in support of certain things where Croatia should have gone forward, you have always had our hand, I do not ask that you will give it now but be consistent when you are in power and when you are in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27871	Thank you very much. We have seven replicas reported. Let's get this straight. The first is the respected representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27872	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to express my surprise with this procedure that you've done because over a hundred people we've all witnessed a few weeks ago, over a hundred people you've called on we can say at hearings in front of the board, and in principle today I see you've dragged these people by your nose. These people paid travel costs in Zagreb, in this crisis today it is certainly not a small amount and today it is seen that this list of ten may even be of the five names for which you will choose today was prepared and above all the call for tenders. It means that it was one of the most common farces you've ever played in front of the Croatian public, harassing over a hundred people, and besides those board members who haven't been involved in an agreement with you and your decisions that have exposed these people to the media, questioned them questions about their private lives, so full life and everything they've done in their lives, I don't think it's right in front of those hundreds and some people who have been on the interviews. Another thing I'm going to say is that Mr. Dragovan reported himself speaking on behalf of the club, otherwise he lives here in Zagreb and with Slavonia is bound by one big thing, this mandate that acts today in the Croatian Parliament has been won on the votes of the Slavons in the fifth constituency, so I would ask him a question, because I believe that he will answer the reply to the reply that gave him a normal answer, he gave it to him, and he agrees that among these ten people who are the ruling Kukuriku coalition he could not find a place from Slavonia and Baranja's space. I don't think it's normal and that it's also perhaps a greater mistake than to set up a committee that will be a party court. I have no doubt that you will use it in the next period of reckoning with the opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27873	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27874	Thank you very much. Comrade Dragovan, you have now taught the former government I am the last to be their lawyer and judge, a judge perhaps but a lawyer did not, but so you said they passed that law. You are today the ruling coalition has already been in power for what, 13, 14 months, 13 months, was 23. If I'm not mistaken on Wednesday, so you could really do what you did when you were an opposition, to make a decision by consensus or a two-thirds majority about selecting candidates for such an important body, but no. You have now shown how accurate the claim that elections can be a mere ritual. This is a ritual, this isn't a vote, this isn't a election, this day that will be held after this debate is a simple ceremony designed in the centre of the ruling party, I mean the SDP. And you brought us all but aside only us. The entire Croatian public of these two years has been ruined by this kind of work and decision-making. You have indeed questioned the credibility of the future work of those who will be elected today. My colleague Drmic is right. You have brought this kind of work to the right to question whether the elected members of the commission will serve to protect the ruling and to deal with opposition politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27875	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27876	Col. Dragovan said the conflict of interest is an important thing, so important that 13 months for these authorities, the commission was not elected, so important that the minister, a member of the government for whom the media found that in a conflict of interest, had failed to comply with the law, not only had he not been sanctioned, punished, he had no one to report to. The conflict of interest is such an important thing that in January 2012 on the proposal of the ruling coalition and its government, changing the existing law did not include the two-thirds majority who sought as an opposition and conflict of interest is such an important thing that the election and appointment committee did not accept narrowing the list by secret voting regardless of party membership. So perhaps even before it was decided that 103 if I did not cheat on the candidate that the security assessment could be narrowed down to 50th, 30th and conflict of interest is such an important thing in this country that in this commission they can only be candidates if they are from Zagreb, Zapresic eventually Duga Resa has escaped, and this Split is probably targeted. There are not so many moral, good, responsible, trusted people anywhere else in Croatia if they are not just from Zagreb. So important is the conflict of interest on this list take or leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27877	Thank you very much. And the next one has the right to a replica is respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27878	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, there's a whole series of things that could be said to Mr. Dragovan, but I'm not going through one thing, because it's a dirty lie that you keep repeating so that it doesn't become the truth in part of the media, the regimeal media that allows you to do what you're doing, that someone from HDZ gossiped about this government in Brussels. That's not true, we've repeated it and argued it many times already. You have your colleagues from the EU Parliament, you have your colleagues on board, you have the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs of your colleague Mondekar sitting next to you and ask them what members of the HDZ are doing on the bodies. We try to hide your weaknesses sometimes, but in Brussels, they laugh at you because of your incompetence and that you're incompetent, it's become a general place, but you've tried to prove yourself fair and democratic, and now that gold fall. You're neither honest nor democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27879	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27880	Dear counterpart Jandrokovic, I will repeat once again that I am extremely sorry that a large party such as HDZ must be in court today. I'm sorry as a man and as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Because at that point, the great ability you speak of and honesty was something quite different in that party, led by Evey Sanader, whose closest associate you were to doing what he did to Croatian citizens, the Republic of Croatia, the budget, public enterprises. Speaking of morality, honesty and ability, someone was capable, today it shows who these individuals and members of the HDZ are now mentioned and how they were capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27881	Next replica and respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27882	So I'll try to make this a replica, what my colleague Dragovan is using again has nothing to do with the replicas. The poets are a wonder in the world, unfortunately fellow Dragovan MPs are not so in his speech you wonder the fact that the HDZ who had most in Parliament did not change or pass a law that would suit him and wonder why he did not do so with a whole series of wrong conclusions. My colleague Dragovan, because we, and I spoke on behalf of the club, understood the principles of democracy and as a way of ruling in agreement with others. Well, since the deal wasn't possible, we couldn't reach any of the solutions we'd advocated. And I will repeat here as the President of the Parliament likes to say for the sake of the Croatian public. Even today, we are not the ones who are asking for this commission to be decided by a two-thirds majority, we are asking that we agree and that each of us can put forward a proposal and participate in the selection of those five people who are so important and important in the competence of the work in this commission. That's what this is about. Don't be surprised and take the opportunity to talk about things that have nothing to do with this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27883	Thank you very much. And the next replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I would like to warn you once again that we are discussing an important topic, however, that colleagues from the ruling coalition may not be able to take too much care of what the opposition colleagues say, but should look very much at what they are talking about and what they are talking about and what the EU Commission is likely to talk about. As one of my colleagues' arguments, Dragovan pointed out the argument against the HDZ government that we had passed this law only in early 2011. Yes, it was the year in which the HDZ government completed the negotiations successfully by opening and closing Chapter 23. And that law was a really sharp law which, through strict rhetoric, looked back on everything and what happened but what might happen, you were against and filed a constitutional suit or a request for a constitutional assessment. But at this point, colleague Dragovan, there is one big problem. Last year, in its report, focusing on the state of fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia, including counterpart Laura Stefan, who is a special rapporteur but also an expert in the fight against corruption, criticised her report on two particularly important things, the fact that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has not been appointed but is also giving up the competition as a model for selecting administrations or supervisory boards of public enterprises. I'm warning you one more time we're still under surveillance, the last report isn't over yet. Under monitoring that speaks about what is happening in Croatia. And it would be very bad, it would be catastrophicly bad if a single trace of doubt on the commission you choose. So a commission that could be challenged from the aspects of political staffing and, in the case of a commission to prevent conflicts of interest, would indeed be a disaster because nothing has yet been completed, nothing has been completed and on July 1st today seems very far away.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27885	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27886	Dear Mrs. Kosor, I wish you had passed that law before, especially for the sake of Croatian citizens, and perhaps for your own party. Perhaps all the bad things of those years before 2011 would not have happened, and perhaps there would not be so much spillage of public money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that in the private pockets of individual officials of your party, which in the party register, unfortunately you too suffer political damage because it accuses you of receiving, not you, but it is nice to see that there was this kind of money in your presidential campaign. You see, where I'm lucky it was before, first because of the citizens, and then because of you and your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27887	Thank you, too. And the last replica, honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27888	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'm replicating to the court that said Mr. Dragovan that conflict of interest is an important thing. I listened to the prime minister carefully to answer one question in the current hour, he said the question was important but banal. So important but banally today I really understand what he's trying to say. And we really have one important question, and a banal relationship to that same question. Let's look at a neighbouring country where the conflict of interest committee has the strength to bring down the prime minister and most in parliament. They have power. I ask the question is, with this procedure, we're going to bring out people who will have the strength not to find a watch, a car, or some hidden kuna, if they're going to be able to find any such object at all. For me, this is, and we've already had procedures for both the Programme Council and the Directors, and I know what we didn't choose here in the Parliament, this is the final act of throwing democratic achievements on the floor. You don't need to go under the line anymore, you don't need to, she's just overstepping. It's very simple. When in opposition, the SDP seeks maximum democratic achievement, principles and procedures, when in power it becomes very simple, at the lowest level. It is conveyed, when we are in opposition, all together, and when we are in power, then we can do it ourselves because it is the will of the Croatian people and it is legitimate. And I listened to my colleague Dragovan, and he really has a policy of art that is possible. He explained it very nicely, but for me he is still a better dancer than an interpreter of democratic procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27889	Thank you very much. Next up for discussion is the HNS club and respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27890	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So it is certainly an important topic of conflict of interest, and whether the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and its appointment is an important topic that is the second issue and the achievement of this commission and similar committees that should be above the Croatian Parliament, above politics, above the government, what has been the achievement of such bodies in Croatia in recent years, of course, we can discuss. The Croatian Parliament, as the representative of the highest will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, delegates the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to various bodies. These are the Constitutional Court, governor of the CNB, chief state attorney, chief state auditor, and when it comes to individual appointments we had no opportunity to negotiate, negotiate, but we had several really embarrassing decisions to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court, bodies that annul the decisions of the democratically elected parliament of the country. And that's the model that we've been using so far because another model we didn't know how to find, and of course it was especially happening with these other bodies that should be the expression of the civil dimension of the control of the authorities, such as this Committee on Conflict of Interest, the Council for Civil Control of the Intelligence System, the Supervisory Board of the HRT, which I'm going to say a little later on, the Council for Electronic Media, etc. These bodies were mainly named by a political agreement, regardless of the quality of people and the fact that in recent years it has been pro-defiling the Croatian Assembly by acting these values, or the tasks that are above Parliament is below each level because it has not been seen what the quality of this candidate is, but whether he is my candidate, whether he is loyal to me. That's all it was about. And that's why we had some sort of a vision of democratic decision on what we're talking about here today, but we actually disabling the fundamental principle, which is the principle of these people's independence and those bodies that are supposed to be above politics, above Parliament, above government. It happened to us, and it happens to us. And this is definitely the time to think about getting out of that model because we saw his bad side. So this is about the repression of democracy, and what has been so far has been the repression of the principle of independence of these bodies that should be above Parliament and above the government. So we need to get out of this situation somehow. And I really cannot understand that the repression of democracy when you make a decision, the decision to appoint this time in a law that has been passed by another parliamentary majority, by half the votes of all MPs, as the president of this House is elected and in secret vote. There may be a variety of objections, there may be an objection to the lack of an appropriate agreement, but saying that what we're doing here today is that it's a repression of democracy and I don't know what else has been said it absolutely doesn't make any sense. So, the club of HNS representatives and I, on his behalf, agreed with this list, which was proposed as a parliamentary majority because these people who are on that list are people who, by their résumés, by their education and by their experience, give reason to hope that this work that they are entrusted with will be done in an appropriate manner. And there was no indication of any party addictions of these people. And that is why the club of HNS representatives agreed to make it a proposal, the initial proposal of the parliamentary majority. Why didn't it go further? Could it be discussed whether the actual quality of people talks would last beyond 1 June, this July, we can discuss the same thing. I probably would, but I'd like to make a quick deal if they said this is yours, and this is ours. Just before we had the case, the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television which is the same body of this kind has this dimension overseeing a powerful media house that needs to be kept public interest, when one representative several times reiterated how it was voted in that body and he openly said one was ours, and three were yours. That way, these people are prevented from doing their job properly if they have to represent your interests, and they have to represent someone else's interests, then they can't really be independent. They can't commit themselves to the work that needs to be done and that's some kind of deal and that's just it, Mr. Buric, is playing democracy. I don't think this is the best way. This should have been done in full agreement, but the state of our relationship, the mistrust is such that such an agreement would not, unfortunately, be possible to achieve. And because it's a step out of that determination towards a political dimension that has more defects than this way, because it's about people who have qualifications for this job, because they've passed security checks and that's one new dimension. The club of HNS representatives will support both this procedure and this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27891	Thank you, Your Honor. Six replicas have been reported to your presentation, so we'll do it in a row. The first replica and respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27892	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Rados and we who are in opposition ranks today are democratically elected, not just representatives of the ruling majority. The good thing about this law is the fact that not politicians should be elected to the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, but therefore persons not from the ranks of the ruling or the opposition, people outside let's say outside politics. But the way you've carried out this whole procedure leads us to the next decision. We will not allow you to be a fig leaf so that you can say that in a democratic procedure the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is elected because it is not a democratic procedure. And therefore we shall not participate in the Electoral Commission, nor shall we participate in the vote, and we shall go out well, and you shall choose. You've already chosen. You choose that yourself in front of the entire Croatian public then show who it is, how democratic procedures are respected and what will be the composition of the future Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. Two years later, after two years, you ruin everything in the end. Well, now you're going to choose for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27893	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27894	Comrade Buric, you say that the farce of democracy is the choice of this commission based on a law passed by the second parliamentary majority in a secret vote and with a supra-al majority. You can experience it that way, but what's beyond all your arguments and what I said is also a question of whether these people are going to do this job better than it was before. It is my belief that it will be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27895	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27896	This is almost an incredible situation that those who have had 13 months of time to change the law and return to their initial principle of two-thirds majority of us who demand a minimum democratic process within the parent board share lessons about democracy. Prior to that, their local branch of party personnel picked up and set up for state service and now convened non-party experts. Is the requirement that the committee that started the procedure by cooperating with the ruling and the opposition end in the same way was rejected in the participation of the selection process of the commission and the request for yours and ours if it is done by a secret vote. And instead of the apology, the rush, we have to do it for Europe, so maybe we're wrong about the lessons of those who often set themselves up as the wind blows, so choose this commission yourself, without us. We will not participate in any further actions or discussions or votes and happy weekends for you! Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27897	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27898	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, fellow Radosh, so far it's been a definitive illusion of democracy. In this vision of democracy together we participated in the same opposition side a couple of years ago and were disgusted by what HDZ was doing. The truth and the HDZ did it. We were bitter, you and I, but when today on this side, so on the side of the government you're holding a lecture, and you're doing the same thing, just a little bit worse, then it's kind of unconvincing to me too. There's no problem with these people's competence at all. I believe they're competent, and I believe there was another 20, 30 very competent people in there, some and I personally know what fell out of formal procedure. That's not the problem, that's not even the criteria that this government is applying and that this government appreciates. We've been told from this pay phone that we're taking responsibility and we're going to put people we trust in together, and we're done with the quote. If you decide for yourself and you don't want anyone to participate in that decision, then what's different than setting up people you trust? Why should they trust them in this situation so they don't touch you but those other ones? What I think, the thing is actually very simple. We're not so smart to make up new slices. As a liberal, you should not know that, you know that, democracy is a procedure. It's not a democracy procedure. Democracy and procedure have a sign of equality among themselves only must always be applied equally whether it is ours or yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27899	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27900	I thank Mr. President, dear colleague Rados listed cases from the recent past when some reportedly were elected to the Supervisory Board and only because they were yours or ours, so he mentioned today's case when we discussed and in HRT status, but there were also those you call yours and those you call ours and voted equally. That's why we need to agree this time, and that document, Mr. Rados, is not a secret, and these people are there chosen by this assembly to do their job in public and in public, but imagine what you call them yours and ours have voted together. Does that remind you of anything, Mr. Radosh? I can remind you of the election of the HINA Supervisory Council when we voted them unanimously in this House. They weren't members of any party equally, one was a dean, one was the director of one respected cultural institute, so don't exactly say that it had just defiled through the Parliament all sorts of things, but unfortunately they had been replaced very quickly. As soon as the majority of people who used to be minorities changed and we agreed with them on those names, Mr. Radoš agreed to give them political support so that they could work and act in such situations. You see, this has changed, and look how many times we voted unanimously in the Zagreb Assembly for the sake of general interest. Take a look at the Zagreb Holding Assembly how many times we voted what you call them both ours and yours, right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27901	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27902	If members of the HRT Supervisory Board will report to the party centres what is happening there and reveal some things and business moves of the house, it is not the best way to operate that supervisory board. If, in the committee of decision-making in the conflict of interest, members will investigate and watch others and they will agree, then overlap, and make compromises, it is entirely contrary to the tasks of that body, Mr Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27903	Thank you very much. We're going to the next line and honorary representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Rados, you said that once in this House when you were in opposition, it was important only that it was my candidate or ours and that there were no other criteria and qualities that mattered, so you said that through the Parliament, it had been all kinds of things, thinking incompetent and unquality, and that you insulted many honest, professional and capable people who worked in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and commission as external members. I don't think that's correct. I'll tell you further that you've attacked this law by saying that the choice of procedure is undemocratic, that you should have a second two-thirds majority, etc. Although it's unconstitutional, but you've been very good at representing such a position. Interestingly, in a year you haven't found it necessary to change that law in order to be more democratic as you say, you have already reached out to the instruments of the same law and proposed the selection of this commission. You're saying it's not appropriate to say it's a repression of democracy. It is the oppression of democracy. Why? Because I don't know what the criteria were at the HNS Club that out of 103 candidates you're proposing these 10, but they're you. at the HNS club asked something about it. The opposition clubs have not asked anyone anything, and I would like to know it is in line with the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure and the good practices that the president often likes to call, the President of the Parliament, is in line with the fact that we know what the criteria were for the Selection Committee, appointing that out of 103 candidates said these 10 are the best and most qualified. The only argument was that the board president came with a final proposal and said that's our proposal. Who's ours? [[Thank you very much.]] It's probably HNS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27905	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27906	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Radosh, from your discussion and later interventions, I have the impression that you don't understand what this is all about. This Law is already the third case in which this ruling majority domiciled agreement or consensus as a means of political action. I will remind you, European issues, the National Committee, the Committee on European Integration in the previous meeting of the leaders came from the opposition. The HRT that you mention yourself and the programming council and the Director-General and the Supervisory Board were once decided by consensus, now it is decided by the majority by imposing the will of the majority. The third thing, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the same thing, you're not interested in consensus, you're not interested in agreement, you're imposing a solution. So it's about very important things, it's about fighting corruption, abuse of power, it's about the media, it's about European issues. You object to HDZ we made mistakes that is not why we lost the election, but HDZ and in these matters were ahead of what you are doing today. You are going back, you have no political power to find solutions that are too important for Croatian society in agreement with the opposition. And the whole opposition will come out today, you'll make a decision, you'll choose members who won't have real democratic legitimacy. But I'm afraid there's one intention behind all of this, and you want to have a government that won't have control.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27907	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27908	Comrade Jandrokovic, you're saying we're going back. If we looked at each other for 180 degrees, we'd see that we were going ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27909	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Before we join the secret vote. ... In the name of the club, tell for God's sake what. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I did just ask myself what. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's an honorary representative on behalf of the club, come out for a pay phone and come in. ... Don't, keep the standard when you're calling the standard for a reason. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So since the debate was what it was that you did not respect any argument or HDZ, nor any other opposition parties, since some unfortunately, in the name of the SDP club, have repeated lies, untrues to which you wish to cause political damage to HDZ, since you are neither civilised as your prime minister, the head of your party, wishes to always highlight nor democratically, since you are dominating a consensus on such important issues and the possibility of agreeing on how and how this commission will work, the HDZ Representatives Club will not participate in this vote and will leave the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27911	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian SDP club Igor Dragovan. Here's to the pay phone, my colleagues. Come to the pay phone, colleagues, please. On behalf of the club, turn to the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27912	Just for a little while, I think we need to respond because of the Croatian public, first of all. No one here is lying, not making it up because Croatian citizens see very well that your former party president and prime minister whose you, Mr. Jandrokovic, were one of the closest associates, was first illegally sentenced to prison for a crime called the INA's management rights for paid bribes and these are facts. I didn't lie about it, everybody knows that. So where's the lie? What I want to say about the upcoming vote and I will repeat, we are responsible, we have received responsibility in the elections, we are ready to take responsibility, we will responsibly propose and propose certain decisions and staff solutions and they are absolutely in front of the Croatian public that these candidates we hope to choose will be chosen, as well as we together with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27913	Thank you very much. And a replica of the esteemed representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this is what you guys would say on the road is cheap. I wasn't talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27915	Please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27916	Just laugh, there's one saying that the last laughs, the sweetest laughs. So, Mr. Dragovan, now you're avoiding what I've been reacting to. You know very well what a lie is and what a lie is, but you can't justify your banditism what happened before. So.....the noise in the hall....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27917	Comrade Jandroković, you have exceeded the measure with the qualification of banditism in the Croatian Parliament. You have introduced a new term that is inappropriate for any debate in the Croatian Parliament, so I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27918	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27919	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27920	I hope next time you'll give your prime minister a warning that spoke much worse terms than banditism, and you know very well...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27921	I don't want to pollemize with you, you got your notice because of the banditism that you introduced into the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27922	Do I have any further right to.../The speaker disfellowshipped./... the political banditism you're currently serving, so you don't have the same criteria for all, Mr. President. The members of the government said the ugliest possible insults at the expense of the MPs.../The speaker excluded./... even if at times it is too difficult to allow the same vocabulary and MPs from the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27923	Your Honor, I have no intention of defending myself from you or anyone else. I respect even your views on me, of course I don't agree with that, not only do I disagree, but it has no basis in any example because you didn't mention it. Now let me tell you something else when you've already given me the obligation to return or address you. I know it's impossible, and often an addict is expected to speak independently. Such a situation will not change my position, no matter what function or to what purpose I am president of the Parliament, as a representative or as a person labels and glues. Everything I do, I do in public, I look at you all MPs and I try to maintain and fix even the standard that was here in the Croatian Parliament. If you tell me that, I'll tell you again, and I didn't want to, we've been listening here, say, to the Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, do you know where $5 million is from the Split smuggling, that man answers: your uncle was a partisan. If we wanted to keep those standards today I will fight them, how much I will succeed, so my God, it's not just about me, it's about all of you. And now to finish, I really think you have the right to speak no matter what, but not in the replica. You said what you were thinking and you let go now. That's what you said. ... No, no, you said everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's get this over with. Before we join a secret vote, I will inform you about how to vote and determine the results of the vote. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure referred to in Article 231 and Article 238 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors, shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. The president in the secret vote is referred to as the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, along with the secretary of the plenary session is also assisted by a number of MPs. MPs who assist the president in carrying out the secret vote hand over to voters, hand over ballots on the list of MPs, the secretary of the plenary session, rounding up a regular number in front of the name of the MPs to whom the ballot is handed. The number of ballot boxes and places to be set shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. When voting, each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote is held again by the same procedure as the first vote. Only one ballot can be voted by the representative and only by the candidates listed in the ballot in person. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. The ballot, rounding the regular number in front of the name of more candidates than the number to be elected, the unfulfilled ballot and the ballot from which it cannot be surely and unequivocally determined by the candidate's representative, is considered an invalid ballot. After all present deputies handed over the ballot and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, the vote was moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the Chair with the presence of the representatives who have helped him vote. On the basis of the cast ballots, the chairman shall publish the results of the election and the appointment at the same session where the secret vote was held. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots from the funeral number, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots and how many MPs have voted in favour of the election or nomination of an individual candidate. Furthermore, the chairman shall declare which candidates have been elected or appointed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose to assist the president in the election, i.e. in the vote of fellow Members and colleagues: Igor Radinovic, Sonja König, Nedzad Hodzic, Dragan Crnogoorac, Martina Banic. And they're gone? Who's not here? We're going looking for someone else? Who isn't here? Martin Banic. Let's go look for someone, then. A fellow Schamper man? You got it. I'm setting a 30-minute delay in which the vote will take place. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues will publish the results of the vote to elect the chairman of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The results are as follows, I announce that 151 is a representative, and the ballot was received by 84 MPs and voted 84 MPs. There were no wrong ballots, so zero. The results of the vote, for the president, first Dalia Oreskovic 81 votes, second Tatjana Vučetic 3 votes. I declare that Dalia Oreskovic has been elected president of the commission. We will now publish the results of the vote for the selection of members of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. The results are the following, of a total of 151 MPs, the ballot received 84 MPs, 84 MPs voted. There were three wrong ballots. Voting results, Marko Gotovina 1 vote, Davorin Ivanjek 80 votes, Branko Lukačević-Gregić 77 votes, Dalia Oreskovic 3 votes, Sandra Pernar 3 votes, Ana Raić-Knezevic 0 votes, Željko Rupic 1 vote, Boris Spudić 78 votes, Zrinka Tukić 2 votes and Tatjana Vučetic 78 votes. I declare that Davorin Ivanjek, Boris Spudic, Tatijana Vučetic, Branka Lukacevic-Gregic were elected as members of the commission. I congratulate all members of the committee and the presidents of the commission on the election. It is a truly important duty and I expect independent, independent and in accordance with the law to decide on a conflict of interest. We will now stop the session, so we will continue the session on Tuesday, Wednesday 30th of January this year, and we will begin with the item of the 12th established agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Roads Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 253. I wish you a happy journey home, rest and Monday and Tuesday working bodies of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27926	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Assembly shall be based on the provision of Article 10(2). On 14 December 2012, the Law on the Ombudsman published a public invitation to propose a candidate for the Advocate General. 12 candidates arrived at a public call on 14 January 2013. Once it has been established that all candidates and candidates meet the formal conditions for the selection of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament held a public conversation with candidates and candidates. According to the preliminary opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on its 27th session held on 6 February 2013 by a secret vote, set out the proposal of two candidates for the Ombudsman, and this is Ivana Goranic and Lora Vidovic, and is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make a choice between the proposed two candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27927	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. The word came from the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27928	Your Honor, Mr. President, this is not a speech on behalf of the club, but I am asking for this later listed or, as I would say, an imposed item on the agenda for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club to be seen about this proposal at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27929	... We'll take a break, and we'll continue at 13 o'clock. [[Specially enabled.]] They're looking for the Labourists, too, on behalf of the club, okay. HDZ, Labourists and IDS. It's all for the Rules of Procedure. You're just looking. Okay, thank you very much. I'll see you here at 1:00. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, a break was requested by the respected representative Davorin Mlakar and will explain everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27931	I'll try our modern technique on. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to admit that we remained surprised, but I think we were able to react on time, to the fact that today, at the end of the vote on the points, certain points of the agenda, appeared to us, I suppose a point of the agenda, if we could well define which would be the choice of the attorney general, i.e. the attorney general. And I must say that we have not been able to fully understand that the election of the Ombudsman is not worth the particular item of the agenda of this session or any session, but that this point is being processed under the common denominator of elections and appointments. Only for comparison from this session under the 25th agenda is the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation. And it seems perfectly to us that the appointment of such a body appointed by the Croatian Parliament deserves the item of the agenda, that all of us can declare ourselves on proposals, any suggestions given to the applicants and finally hear the reasons why certain people are appointed to certain duties. But then how do you understand the proposal of the ruling Ombudsman to the constitutional institution, the person who is the authority of the Croatian Parliament and whose term of office takes 8 years with the basic job of protecting human rights instead of choosing and discussing as a special item of the agenda we get today before the end of the session under the election and appointment point. Unfortunately, this practice speaks of something that has already settled. It speaks of the practice of the ruling party or the ruling parties which began with the appointment of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Director and the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television and all the bodies appointed by the Croatian Parliament and where we forgot for the first time I would say the already adopted practice in the Croatian Parliament, which is that we are trying and ruling and opposition to agree on candidates who are proposed to these high duties. The team is more surprised by today's proposal that a person of authority of the Croatian Parliament, at the term of office of 8 years, propose a Committee on the Constitution that conducted the debate. We must and say, he did not accept the candidates proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, but changed the list and offered the other two and different candidates from those offered by the Committee on Human Rights. And not just that. This is a repeated procedure for the appointment of the attorney general, because the first tender did not go according to what we were told at the time because none of the candidates proposed in the first competition met the high standards set by the current civil defenders. Not to enter the quality of today's proposed candidates, but we really need to ask ourselves what achievements have been achieved by those offered today to the Parliament to name them as opposed to those who were candidates in the first competition. No argument in favor of those proposed today can be seen as an addition or a greater quality than the people who first competed for this same duty. And we therefore hold that this practice without any agreement, imposing the will of the majority without talking to other parliamentary parties, about key persons who should in this particular case protect human rights, be the authority of Parliament, and de facto have the widest possible support of the Croatian public in order to be able to carry out their duties in quality, instead of trying to come to a joint proposal, we are getting from some dark corners of individual committees or party premises proposals that we could not adequately declare. Not just that. What it says is that most of the votes were cast by the board is correct, but it is not true that all others who participated in the work of those committees were against this kind of work. This is narrowing down the space of the agreement, this is a new blow to democracy for which you are all in the Croatian Parliament. And we suggest that instead of violently including such points in the agenda, you withdraw the proposal, consult with all clubs and then go to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27932	Thank you, too. I have to explain the situation because it's perfectly normal, so I'll explain it. So there are no new ones in this one. This is a proposal from the working body of the Croatian Parliament. Not an external body or an external entity. And the practice of the Croatian Parliament has been like this for twenty years and I don't see any problem with that, as far as the agenda is concerned. Therefore, if the proposal for appointments is outside the Croatian Parliament and the working bodies are discussing it, then a special item of the agenda is included. If the proposal is within the Croatian Parliament as it is here, then it is done under the point – Elections and appointments. It's a practice and it doesn't change the essence of things anything. The second thing I want to say this time is that two working bodies have been considering the implementation of the tender, or the coming up of a proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman. It is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and it is the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. These two working bodies were open to the public and all MPs could be there as well as the public. Accordingly, I see no reason to object to this species. The procedure is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure and with the Law on the Attorney General. And now I'm asking the representative of the Labour Club who also asked for a break to explain his views. Please welcome the honourable representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27933	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The function of the occupier is not only determined by the Constitution but is extremely important for Croatian citizens. Very often this is the last dam a man can address to protect him from the will of the state, from violence and from injustice. It is therefore essential that this person be a person who has already proven himself in this business, therefore in the business of protecting human rights and being a person of absolutely unquestionable credibility. The procedure carried out by the President of the Parliament has said nothing new. It's not a new reality, the force of most votes is doing something that needs to be made by agreement, so maybe the results would be smarter. In fact, in the first procedure that was carried out, all candidates were rejected because they were not publicly known enough at the level of protection of human rights. I don't see what the odds are for anyone who's been setting these candidates up to show how these people are competent enough and that they've proven themselves in the field of protection of human rights. These people may be more publicly recognizable than those candidates in the first trial, but they're even more recognizable. So, it's not a joke that a man must be publicly recognized but to be a doubtless human rights fighter and what a public defender should do for the next 8 years. This emphasis of candidates and this agreement of candidates to make the choice quite clear and that one candidate has an absolute advantage by all criteria is the culmination of manipulation that Croatian Labourists cannot agree to, they do not want to agree and we also ask that this procedure be withdrawn and that it be carried out that God commands not only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure but in accordance with the importance of this function and in accordance with the terms of general human honesty. It is a fair function, not a function that needs to be obtained to arrest someone, not a function that needs to be given to someone who listens to you through a number of years, but a function that will help us, you, the government and the legislative authority and control and correct and try to determine the injustices and help of Croatian citizens. If we're not able to do that, then here we are at the party policy right now, then we don't deserve to sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27934	Thank you very much. And the third club is club IDS and independent representative Furi Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The occupier is the central institution in Croatia for the protection of human rights, let's not forget that. It is an international qualification by the Croatian Ombudsman. That is why, although I agree with the President of the Parliament that it was possible and so to choose the Ombudsman, I think, by these candidates, that it would still be more appropriate, more valuable, more quality, if we had put the agenda in place because in this way we could discuss with more arguments and better on such an important function. And I even think maybe a point like that would be worth even two readings. Let's remember a little bit about the history of the attorney generals. Generally, all of our expectations were earned by the occupiers, all of whom were such that they defended human rights well. Except for one, the first. The First Advocate, and only the chosen ones will remember, e.g. Mr. Seks and Mrs. Zgrebec, Mr. Babac's first attorney, I think he was called, was removed after a year because it was established after a year that the only thing he had done in that year was that he wrote a report on 40 pages on the disability of the IDS party. At the request of Mr. Jakovčić, our President of the IDS Club and Independent Representative Fury Radin, President of the IDS at his request, on our general surprise then HDZ, precisely Mr. Shex here present, accepted these arguments and was replaced by Mr. Babac who had just written these 40 pages of the report in those years. The other attorneys were quite well-elected for this central function that existed afterwards, becoming the central function of the central institution, in fact for the protection of human rights. Now, let's come to the procedure that was conducted on two occasions in this House. I'm talking about the future now when we'll be back here in eight years and pick another lawyer, I'd like us to do a different, different procedure. I am here and, not only as a member or as a representative of the board, as a representative of the IDS Club, but also as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on 2 occasions proposed with the most votes the same candidate and felt that the same candidate had a very good reason to be elected, this is Mrs Lana Peti-Kunjudzic, who was first elected consensually, consensually, and secondly had the most votes. As you know, the right path to a simple contest, to put it that way, has been annulled in my opinion because no political decision has yet been made on who will be the real candidate. And that is inevitable, because the second time on our side, when we together the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities held a session together and then voted separately on candidates, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities again proposed with the highest vote the same candidate. And, of course, candidate Laura Vidovic, who is the least guilty of everything I'm saying today, because, Are you sure there is, please? .../Intruder President: Bring the end... because it certainly has the possible characteristics because we have proposed it as well. [[Invader President: Bring the end.]] What I want to say is this, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the committee that votes on the Ombudsman's report every year, and which, by the way, discusses this topic, and which is fundamental to this topic, proposes some candidates, I think it would be at least not arrogant to say that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system accepts this candidacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27936	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27937	Everything else, here's good, whatever else he has a right to behave like that, because the Rules of Procedure that we unfortunately voted on gives him, firstly, everything else I find rather arrogant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27938	Thank you, too. We've finished the club presentations they've been looking for a break. I'm opening a debate. Club representatives can participate in the debate. The HDZ Club and Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that if you don't already believe in HDZ arguments, which we know in general, I believed that you would seriously listen to the presentation of the President of the Human Rights Committee, but it doesn't seem to touch you either. To talk about that you have introduced the principle of appointing within or outside the Parliament and that this will depend on the point of the agenda is ridiculous, is a cartoon distortion of the right to talk in this home about such serious topics. In other words, if this is the principle that officials in the Republic of Croatia will be elected here in the future, other than that of your established way, then we wonder how we will choose the governor of the National Bank, how we will choose a top state attorney and a whole series of officials who should receive public support from all of us so that they can do their duty in the best possible way. This principle that you offer today is again, forgive me for the expression of rape, rape and democratic procedure. And if you think we should discuss it that way, I wasn't deliberately talking about the quality of the candidates, nor their names, then our only conclusion is that we won't participate in that farce, so as you suggested, vote for yourself all the officials you imagined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27940	Thank you, too. Next is Club Labourist and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27941	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As far as the parliamentary majority is concerned with the institution of one of the most important institutions in Croatia, the one defending human rights spoke by counterpart Vuljanic. I will only talk about one segment, and that is how the parliamentary majority treats the opposition. This is already countless times when it has been claimed that the opposition should not actually participate in anything, nor decide that everything that happens in the Croatian parliament is on the back of the majority, even those things that should be negotiated. Unfortunately, now that we have discussed this break, we have concluded however difficult it is for us to say that the principle that prevailed before the arrival of the Kukuriku coalition here has been agreed on by Parliament, much has been reached by consensus. But today you have kicked out of the parliamentary parliamentary procedure consensus. You're out of the bargain. You've thrown out parliamentaryism. You don't really need the opposition, so if you don't need an opposition, then if you don't have to deal with it in this farce, we won't be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27942	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27943	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, perhaps because of the Croatian public, should be reminded of the Croatian public in the manner of selecting the Ombudsman eight years ago for a simple reason. I agree that we should discuss each appointment and that we should particularly discuss the appointment in the Croatian Parliament. But also let there be opportunities where these conversations are held. In this case, it was an opportunity and not only one on the Charter of Human Rights and National Minorities and on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, as far as I know, both the position and the opposition are involved and there is plenty of space and time and opportunities for open discussions. I also think that some things should change especially those that were not good. And I am pleased to hear that now the opposition orders call for consensus and where luck that such calls for consensus were before when the authorities were acting, so I will remind the Croatian public of the election eight years ago in which the chairman of the board, the HDZ chairman of the board, proposed a proposal from the occupier then, with six votes for and two against the proposal, was Željko Tir, to be held in the debate when the decision was to be taken by Mr Shexs, very clearly said that he had conducted all the consultations of the HDZ clubs, HSLS, DC, HSP, HSU, but the others had not arrived. However, given that certain problems have arisen, it agrees that a decision on the election of the occupier is being prolonged, so that all this would happen at the beginning of December 30.11.2004 has completely changed the proposal of the attorney general, given that in the meantime, the ruling majority has sent a letter to withdraw its candidacy for the attorney general. So much for the seriousness of your proposals and proposals for the Croatian public and Croatian voters. But the fact is that we will try daily to improve dialogue and consensus in this assembly and I am glad that you are calling for it and I believe that we will find a common language but at this point and I will repeat this, we also said in the election and commission on the decision to prevent conflicts of interest that must take some responsibility and at this point we are taking that responsibility and we believe in the proposal that we have made, and that will be evaluated by the citizens of Croatia and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27944	Thank you, Your Honor. The next is the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27945	Here is Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. From these previous discussions, fellow MPs are more or less visible than who is the opposition who is the government, from which you should not run, who is the majority who is the minority, but most of all, I must confess to Mr Dragovan's debate. We have tried and tried to be constructive as much as possible in the debates and voting, and at the end of today's vote, we have shown that the opposition has accepted and agreed and that we have unanimously adopted a number of today's legislative proposals that we considered to be good. But your debate, Mr. Dragovane, unfortunately, shows what psychiatry has long established, and that's that rape kids become rapists themselves. Unfortunately, and that they are calling for the practice of your predecessors to be interpreted as the reason why you act like one. So I use this as a metaphor, as a display of behavior patterns. And now what does that mean? And of course the fact is that the institutional pattern of operation of the Croatian Parliament has unfortunately not changed by changing power. Yes, although you have a majority vote with that majority however you like and we try to be constructive and participate and support the laws and support the amendments of the law and support what is good. And you're ready for certain withdrawals around everything except the eye of the staff. When it comes to frames, then they're expressive and there's no conversation, there's no deal. They will be the characters you like, which you support and those you have agreed before. And that's what happened when it came to the director of HTV, and that's how it was when it came to the members in the previous discussion, and that's how it is again today. And, of course, we as an opposition party won't participate in a farce like this, so you bring yourselves as you have already written on your ballots, so vote for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27946	Thank you very much. We have a replica. One replica respected representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27947	Dear colleague Djurovic, what you said, it says everything about you about what you said on a personal level. I never debate in such a way in the Croatian Parliament but you seem to be unable to escape from it, I don't know for what reasons you are longing for insults of a personal level without any need. You see, neither will I speak at this time that the right that has been achieved in the elections and taking responsibility to make certain proposals. And I'm going to have to repeat that we have to work every day to come to an agreement. But it's hard to negotiate with people who are as exclusive as us and the way you behave is that below each level, really below each level. And with everyday examples in your own party you show, and especially the last days in which you operate in units of local self-government where you act, how you hire people, by which criteria, how you buy council members, how they change sides in the representative bodies of local self-government units and then the families are rewarded with jobs. It's all professional. It's your way of arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27948	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27949	I didn't mean to offend anyone or you personally, I'm really not the kind of person who normally speaks here either of the metaphors that I really feel like a pattern of how you took the form of behavior, and the ideas were a little different. And what I think at least those who voted for you had the idea that this form would finally change. Well, after all, this assessment that today has the Croatian Parliament and this imprecise which today the Croatian Parliament enjoys amongst citizens is, yes, and it is my responsibility, yes. I am aware of these responsibilities, and I take it upon myself in the part where I bear it, but take it upon yourself in that part of which you are responsible for it. And when it comes to non-propriety of hiring about thousands of people you have traded in cleanups both by public enterprises and by the ministries and by the state administration, yes, you have set the best example and shown Croatia how it is done. Ask your people in Osijek what nepotism is and in Osijek KBC in Osijek they know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27950	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. First, a respected representative, Ana Lovrin, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I picked up the first one, the last one, and the only one, probably because it's thought that this is such an irrelevant topic that they probably won't even want to discuss it, so maybe the MPs don't even know that they can discuss it individually if there's no ticket on the table outside. So there are no ballots out there to apply for a debate on the Point of Selection and appointments. So I'm running over there asking the secretary, so I'm allowed to discuss, which is why I'm the only one. I just want to say that you, Mr. President, may have been a good interpreter of the business procedure of the Rules of Procedure that you brought in. It may be according to the Rules of Procedure, but it certainly is not according to the good parliamentary practice of this Parliament in previous councils but also European parliaments. Officially, it may be so, but it certainly is not, and given that the proposal has failed and been carried out somewhere outside these parliamentary committees of the Croatian Parliament, but also outside the Croatian Parliament, I think it would be worth a lot of money for this point to get a special point in the agenda. To remind the public, we today choose the constitutional authority of the Parliament for the Protection of Human and Fundamental Rights guaranteed by the Constitution, we choose it for 8 years practically without debate. Remember, the first attempt at the election of the contest was announced sometime in the summer, at the end of October after a discussion was held before the debate and voting took place, the chairman of the committee declares, the position of the SDP and the ruling that none of these candidates reached a high level and visibility in the protection of human rights by the criteria set by the so far-time civil defender. After that, we approach the secret vote. And what did you expect if the rulings had a majority and, of course, no one would get the required majority and so it was presented to the plenary session, so the contest is repeated. In the next competition of 12 candidates who applied, an interview was held at a session and then a new session was called, I stress it was called at the time of the plenary session. So I and some HDZ members at that session were exactly 5 minutes late because we had discussions here at the plenary session. It was not a good practice for him to wait for us, but an urgent point of debate was put on the agenda of the public defender's candidate. At the moment when we came to the board of debate which states that the debate was conducted, there was no debate, no one answered for the debate, not even the rulings felt that it was necessary to say on the board what some candidates were for, even I am not arguing about these two proposed candidates, or candidates, or those proposed by the Committee on Human Rights. I'm talking about principle. So no one has found for a similar, nor a president, perhaps to discuss how the proposed candidates are now known in the public in the protection of human rights, which is why these are from their curricula, thus recognising this high level which will certainly be at the level of the standards set by the so far-time attorney general. So, not a word, the ballots were divided, and in a secret vote one candidate of six votes, one 8. It is symptomatic, then, that one of these candidates who received a little more votes from a daily newspaper immediately writes big articles about whether she is the most similar person for it or not, etc. So there is no debate about the person, the authority of the Croatian Parliament that we choose for years. It's never been like this before, we've never talked about important positions to each other so they really crystallized the most capable, not the most similar candidate. But apparently, this second competition, or the cancellation of the first, was waiting for the SDP to produce the right and capable and similar candidate first of all, and apparently the majority, the comfortable majority in the Croatian Parliament, in secret vote, will secretly vote what they really want but the fact that it is not the first time, we saw it in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. And I really suggest that we don't waste our time, not interviewing and harassing all those candidates who apply, that we don't exhaust ourselves by asking them questions, and that in fact, in advance, we probably already know very well who will be chosen and chosen. Yesterday we had a debate on the Law on the right to access information, and that's when the Commissioner for Information was promoted to us. Why is it so much better than what the Personal Data Protection Agency has done so far? One of the main arguments was that it was because the director of the agency proposed the government, and this is elected in the Croatian Parliament, and it is one guarantee that it will be a true person of the full trust of the entire Croatian Parliament and therefore probably the public because there are representatives of all policy options in Croatia. I personally do not believe and expect, in this parliamentary practice of this call and this majority in the Assembly that we will also have to listen again to the interviews of many people, and in fact, it will be known in advance who will be the person most choosers will be. The other clubs said, at least that's what I mean by rudely that such an important person is chosen in a way that on committees that are parent, which should study all the candidates reported, that it is practically not discussed, that from the divided ballots, the ballots are known as because this proposal as well as the proposal of the Board of Directors of Science, that the proposal is elsewhere outside the Parliament, we claim that this proposal is elsewhere outside the Assembly and when the policy, or SDP, is found by the candidate then it was quite easy to formally implement the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27952	Thank you, too. Now we've got a line of replicas, so let's get in line. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27953	Dear colleague Lovrin, I agree fully with you. The Advocate General shall not be subject to party staffing. It is an important function in the Republic of Croatia to avoid negotiating this with all parliamentary parties, or the presidents of clubs sitting here in Parliament. This is not even about business provisions, but about parliamentaryism, which is important from day to day. It is absolutely certain that the Advocate General deserves a separate agenda, deserves to be discussed seriously in the Assembly and to see what has not been good so far in the work of the Ombudsman, that is, in our relationship with the Ombudsman and how it has been applied, to the public as it relates and to the public as we refer here in Parliament. The public doesn't care if it doesn't matter to us here. I know you'll say they're arguing on boards. According to the Rules of Procedure, committees have that right, so let's introduce more rights, and more is the right deal. In addition, why it was not respected that the Committee on Human Rights had the right to propose and to discuss this candidate, means a committee that cares about human rights, and the Ombudsman is concerned about human rights. I think it really started here, and I started to doubt everything that we've done so far when I believed most of them that she was going with good intentions, that it was all really about choosing obedient and quite certain that I began to suspect whoever was elected to be the listener of the majority, and not the public defender, and that we had completed another institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27954	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27955	Thank you very much. Well, of course, fellow Vuksic should not and should not be staffed politically by such important functions, especially those that care about the protection of human rights. You said the promoters said there was a debate on the board. It wasn't a discussion on the board. That's the problem. They're so pretentious, I don't know what I'd call impertinent that they don't think or that they should say why they will, in secret vote in obedience to all of them, circle who they need, who they're told. So, at least before the secret vote, you could say here are those candidates. We believe that these have reached this high level, that they are public-recognizable because they have dealt with the protection of human rights on both the team and the team and those areas. So I certainly believe that there are such people in these 12 candidates. There were also in the first round, but apparently it was necessary to remove the first competition, because as I said by ruling they did not bring out their own candidate. And that is why we are proposing and we have proposed that just as fellow Dragovan quoted a good practice as saying that in the event of some doubts and disputes, a decision on the subject should be postponed. We also propose that decision-making on this subject is simply delayed so that we can conduct the kind of debate this function deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27956	The next replica and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27957	Thank you, Mr. President. In the interest of truth, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has discussed the proposal of a candidate for the Advocate General three times. The first time we agreed on a procedure, about a colleague's procedure. The session was right in this space and we agreed on how to choose the candidate, how to interview, how to talk, and how to vote. It wasn't slow. After that, we had a joint session of the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Human Rights. All the candidates in the full public conversation presented themselves, answering the questions that almost all the members of the two Committees were asking. We've had opportunities to hear and see every candidate. And after that, we opened a debate at the Committee on the Constitution. And yes, it's true. You weren't at that debate. You were too late. Is that my responsibility? No, I don't. The call you got on time. You could've turned yourself in. Neither you nor the other colleagues from your party who were at the session discussed it. Today we have an open debate and we are discussing candidates. Personally, I believe that the candidates who have been submitted to me are the best impression that their résumés are so clear, concise and concrete answers to the questions that we have all shared not only the representatives of the position, not just the representatives of the SDP, all of you, and you fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27958	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27959	Thank you very much. Well, fellow coat of arms, don't talk about technical details, I guess it's pretty clear to everyone. What? Why are we laughing? What's so funny about that? It is not a technical detail in the election of the Ombudsman if we meet in separate halls of the Committee on Human Rights and Nationals or we will be together. Are we going to listen separately or together that's for me a technical detail of saving space and time, but that's not the point. So you're telling me fellow coat of arms that you're being honest. This morning, very well, we HDZs came to the Constitution Committee this morning when there were no rulings, so we did a quorum. Then we're welcome. But when you have a quorum, then it's better that we're gone, and you knew it was a plenary session and you knew we were talking at a plenary session, so you could wait a dozen minutes for the board to gather on such an important subject. So, an important topic of selecting an attorney general, a debate about it. You're closing the hearing within three minutes or five minutes, anyway. So that's what this is about. What we've been doing has been interviewed by the candidates, but obviously that's enough for you. And when there was the Committee of Conflict of Interests for days, there were hearings of candidates for days. At the next session the SDP came and said, here's our suggestion that out of these 150 or 103 as many as there were these 10 is best and over, there's no debate. We're going to a plenary session. If it's democracy for you, if it's good, if it's good democratic and parliamentary practice, then let those who listen to this and watch it judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27960	New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27961	Thank you very much, President. Well, dear colleague Lovrin, you've noticed well in your discussion the fact that we spoke, i.e. when we had the agenda point, the choice of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and the way it was done. At that time, it was often said here in the assembly that today's ruling structure should at least act out democracy. But then it came down as it is today to form and a question of some responsibility without thinking what kind of democracy we are sending from this House to the outside. And what did this procedure look like? The opposition had no right nor to propose a candidate in those 10 who came to the election, nor the right to propose. Then he started the election procedure in a way that the ruling majority controls the boxes themselves, counts the votes themselves and votes the members of the commission. Some received 77 votes at the time, and 76 were required. Did we ever wonder what kind of picture she went outside? Do we have the right to doubt that everyone who received 77 votes at the time really got 77 votes when you suggest, watch, monitor, count and vote? This is the level of democracy we are talking about today, and that is what Croatian citizens are looking at today. We heard today that he resented what Mr. Shakespeare did, that he had the strength to withdraw certain and blame then possible suggestions. It's a grudge. We all know it's hard to make some decisions, but it's even harder to pull back. And that's why you, the President of the Croatian Parliament, have that possibility, but obviously you have deviated from your speech that you said here at the beginning when you became president. You said you'd be captain of this ship of democracy and that you'd bring him to port peacefully after four years. I'm afraid he's already lost somewhere or not to say even worse that he's submerged on certain interests. That's how it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27962	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27963	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Boric, seems to me to be holding the ballot boxes on his own again, counting how things go and telling themselves how many votes somebody's got. Unfortunately, our suggestions and suggestions to the President of the Croatian Parliament that sometimes in some perhaps open issues not to tell the disputed ones to reach for good practice, so here is what the president of his club mentioned that Mr. Shakespeare was doing, and then he delayed the decision to clear things up. I doubt it, I appeal, but I doubt it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27964	New replica and respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27965	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Lovrin, I must say, I'm confused. I remained confused, as well as my colleagues, Vuksic, because you said he was the authority of the Croatian Assembly for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights, a public defender. And we have recently accepted in this House the amendment of the Commissioner for Information as the authority of the Croatian Assembly for Fundamental Human Rights. What does that really mean? I'm in doubt who the citizens will now appeal to for the protection of fundamental human rights? Is it the Attorney General or the Commissioner for Information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27966	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27967	You do not need to be confused about the Constitution, but the proposal of the HDZ and then the ruling political options to unite the institutions of the Ombudsman was on this trail just to get the constitutional power of the Croatian Parliament's authority and to be able to act more strongly on the protection of human rights, and so that citizens know who they will address for human rights because all those rights that protect special lawyers are on the basis of human rights and the right to information is also rightly established by the Croatian Constitution. But it's not unconstitutional. I don't think that's good, but it's not unconstitutional either, because the constitution in the last sentence says the attorney general and the other attorneys. But this is how you can find the political and similar five, six, and so that one public defender would be just one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27968	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Zlatko Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27969	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. It's not really a very clear discussion to me, Mrs. Lovrin. Look, as far as I know in this House, the Attorney General's report was often discussed once a year. HDZ never accepted the report, but was aware of it. Which means exactly what I'm not elaborated on right now, you know what that meant, right? Secondly, your founder, as far as democratic principles and principles are concerned, is another way to say when speaking at least they didn't have a chance to make mistakes, but you had a chance to make mistakes and you were wrong. It's just that your founder is dr. Franjo Tudjman said he literally would not allow the opposition situation in the City of Zagreb. Well, then about the sheep's tiny teeth, etc. So much for the opposition situation. You're talking about not having some right as an opposition, and I'd like Mr. Mlakar to explain to the Croatian public how it would be to negotiate? How would that work? What does it look like in practice to negotiate in practice? You yourself said it was the authority of the Croatian Parliament, which will be chosen in a prescribed manner. The prescribed way is qualified most. So the Croatian public should know that it is chosen by 76 votes. Now, how does it come up with a proposal? I would really ask you not to bother us, especially you who are in the Committee on the Constitution, the system politically and as the system is said and further Rules of Procedure and you who are in the Committee on Selection, Appointing and you who are club presidents. You make a deal on the rules of the game, and now what you're saying is just for television and transmission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27970	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27971	Thank you very much. It's not about television and transmission, we're not... Please ensure my silence. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27972	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27973	As far as the agreement on the rules is concerned, we did, and when the last Rules of Procedure was made, we had some remarks, we suggested well-meaningly, and you wouldn't listen to us. So now you're saying the Rules of Procedure aren't right because the MPs are replicating too much. So speak from the table only you replicate, and you will work without a break, and you will work until midnight, and you will see. So now we're talking and we're appealing to make a deal, but you're not going to make a deal. The fact that you quoted the late first president of the Republic of Croatia here in that the procedure was not as good as I understood it to you. Djurovic has already ordered something. When something bad happens and some people have suffered, they keep saying it bad. So get away from it and fix it if you don't think it's good. And I don't know what you don't understand in my discussion? I said that although formally business is good, it is not anti-business, but it is not good, it is not in line with the good democratic practice of this Croatian Parliament and beyond. Mr. President of the Constitution Committee told me that we had agreed on what room we were going to work in, that it was the highlight of an inter-party agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27974	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replica. Now at the end of 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club and respected representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27975	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. And this point is one in a row that shows what we have known since the beginning of your term, that you want to impose into this House one game of cowboys and Indians. You've already taken over the role of cowboys, and by force you want us to take over from the opposition parties the role of Indians. And when we don't want to, then you get angry in one personal way below each level, you fight back with certain attacks. In HDZ, I will not look back this time, because it is common knowledge of what they did and in the past elections the fine is deserved. But I'm going to give you a few words because this point is also proof that you haven't learned from HDZ's mistakes. You act at least the same way they acted in their 2 terms as the government in this country. And I can say that in some things you're advocating over them. You've led this country to have over 370,000 unemployed in it, you've introduced some kind of program that's more of a social case program, where people work without establishing a working relationship for a 1600 kuna church, and almost everything they get spent on transportation to work. You have no clear standard of how these people get to work. Col. Dragovan mentioned that Šišljagic inappropriately, Mayor Šišljagic pulled out candidates with equal conditions for the job. It's the only choice of these volunteers that wasn't subjective. Explain to me how you received volunteers in the office of the president, in the Croatian Parliament, in the Government, in the county and cities not only where the SDP is in power, but also other parties. You've been messing with these jobs and you're seeing your party friends. And when something is done besides that, then you attack. What is nepotism? Perhaps he could explain to you your colleague Biljana Borzan what nepotism is. What are the advantages of her native cousin, Zoran Horvat, whom she has appointed director of the Bizoba Spas? What are the professional advantages of Dr. Vladimir Borzan's wife, Mrs. Borzan, who's been staring at Osijek's clinical hospital? Is that nepotism? It's not. I understand, you've got the election to choose your staff. If you put incompetent women, even if you're husbands and cousins, you'll lose the next election. But don't throw the stone away because it'll come back to your head. You're doing a lot worse than HDZ did. And you can only dream of HDSSB and his politics. You have to go through a lot of purgatory to catch up with our moral qualities. What is your new candidate, Ivica Vrkic, who trades for the transition from HNS to HDZ in 1995, in return his son is employed at the Croatian Embassy in Pečuh. He didn't brag about the press conference, he didn't even boast about how he traded with you to be mayoral candidate, in return you put him in charge of the Chepin oil factory. Maybe because it's called a sunflower in town, so you thought it had enough experience and predisposition because it still makes sunflower oil. These are your candidates, these are your moral verticals. You can be ashamed of yourself. Is it moral for you from the HNS that Croatia's airline releases 220 people at the same time that it pays off your former President Cacic 842 thousand kuna dividends, or buys out shares. You've imported yourself there in Osijek and the SDP, and HDZ, and Labourists, I don't know who brought you together anymore, the mob money that funds campaigns with the help of these regimeal media, you try to break up the HDSSB, you won't be able to do it. HDZ lost the election in 2 terms because of the thieving, and you will lose them again as well in 2004 because you are incompetent and corrupt, and you will destroy this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27976	Mr. Representative, at least you can apologize to the public. Which mob money and what people you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27977	You may ask your candidates, Mrs. Borzan, who comes from Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27978	I don't want to run for office, but that's why I really need to give you a heads-up because it's flat, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27979	Yeah, thanks for the heads-up. Of you is also a warning of pleasure. Mr. President, you should have responded to Mr. Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27980	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27981	I accept your warning, and I didn't put anything down and stand behind every word of my own. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27982	Thank you very much. Okay. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27983	Well, it's a demographic right to speak, but I have to admit that a colleague has made a very brave statement and throws a stone, so behind that when he says something like that, it means that in his party he's just so clean in operation, that it's a simple example of behaviour in Croatia, right? And when you lecture on democracy, you first have to respect the rule of law. As far as I know, check it out for you on the court register as president of the party. So much for respecting the legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27984	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27985	Well, as party president, we have Vladimir Šišljagic on board, so don't say anything casual. But I know you meant Branimir Glavas. Well Branimir Glavas is for you, she's vertical for you. What he's in prison today was about the HDZ retribution of Eva Sanader who today deserved to rot in prison. We stand behind Branimir Glavas and we will do everything, not because he is our friend, because we already know that he is innocent and that in the political process he is sentenced to this prison sentence. And he's gonna get out of jail, and he's gonna sit there with us. And all you can do is look at it and get angry, and that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27986	Another warning, because the Croatian court has passed a judgment of power, and we are no longer interested in your private opinion, nor in the Croatian public. ... I can, because in the Croatian Parliament you are obliged to respect and you swore, you swore a solemn oath to obey Croatian laws, Croatian institutions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27987	You weren't a respected colleague of Drmic's when I replicated your colleague. You weren't here at the assembly. I only replicated for reasons because he went to a personal level and I said I don't speak personally, read the phonogram, it's very inappropriate or ever spoken in this assembly. And while you are holding lessons here, you are the ones who have confessed to a criminal act before the Croatian court, have settled and have been convicted by law and are sitting in this Croatian Assembly. And here you come very aggressively with threats of throwing a stone at your head you're counting with your maybe people who think differently or inexperience. It is your right to represent political views, but don't act aggressively in this way here in parliament, especially not according to the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27988	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27989	Unlike you, Mr Dragovana's colleague Djurovic did not go personally but behind all of his actions or as you say Sunday, I will stop. What I did, I did the way my parents raised me to keep my truth and justice in the same place. And those of you who don't have a person, an ideal for which to do something, I feel sorry for you. But you'll never understand why I did it because you're not in a position to understand it. Because you don't have such a person, you don't have ideals for which you wouldn't give money, but give life and I have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27990	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27991	Comrade Drmić, I stand behind your every word not only in your closing word but also in these replicas. In fact, 5 thousand new employees of state, public and public services in public companies and politically similar and members of the Kukuriku coalition are making everything clear. Therefore, nothing is a strange choice of the occupier, since it is so some Kukuriku coalition gentlemen are free to vote in public rather than secretly in connection with the election of the occupier and we are out of here in public because it is a public secret who it will be. Thank you very much. Let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27992	Next replica and respected representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27993	Thank you, Mr. President. In public or in secret, I could say a lot to Mr. Drmic about the way they hire in our county but I won't. I'm not going on a personal level either. I don't mean Mr. Drmic, but according to many members of the HDZ who have ruined our county in the last four years, I dare say 20. But I wonder if Mr HDSSB is going to propose the following way here. How many candidates were there, 20, 30 I don't know, I didn't follow, find 20 blue envelopes, share them with the press, and get one candidate out, maybe that's the best suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27994	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27995	.../Intruder: I would suggest maybe a little retroactively. Your candidate in Đakov is Mr. Matko, why didn't you hire his wife a few months ago in the Đakovak water line you pulled out of the blue envelopes. It would be much fairer than you hired her overnight thinking no one would see, and in Djakovština you have 6 grand and some unemployed. It's not nepotism. Nepotism in the SDP does not exist as a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-25-0.u27996	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. We're done arguing. But for the sake of the public of Croatia and for the record, I'll say it like this. The agenda item is the election of appointments and election of the occupier. That the point was legitimate and legal in the agenda is proof that we had a debate of five clubs, one MP and twelve replicas. Unfortunately about the quality of the debate and the essence of the debate I cannot talk about. I'm not a judge, I'm not an arbiter, but that's why the Croatian public. There is no doubt, therefore, that, legitimately and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a tender for the Advocate General has passed the procedure, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he has come to the Croatian Parliament, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he has been put on the agenda and will be elected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I have to say that because some colleagues challenged, challenged one, the other and the third. And finally, of course, I'd like that so-called. We make the unattainable examples of parliamentary democracy in the Croatian Parliament even more inaccessible but not in a formal sense, or when someone wants to give himself the right to be the only one who is democratic. Please conclude the hearing. And now, before we approach the vote, we will inform you about how to vote and how to determine the results of the vote. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Article 231 to Article 238 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors of shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. A number of MPs shall also assist the chairperson in the secret vote with the secretary of the plenary session. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters. The handover of ballots shall be recorded on the list by the MPs of the plenary session by rounding up the regular number in front of the name of the MPs to whom the representative's ballot is handed. The number of ballots and places to be set shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote on each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote is held again by the same procedure as the first vote. Only one ballot can be voted by the representative and only by the candidates listed in the ballot in person. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. A ballot rounding a regular number in front of the name of a number of candidates elected, an unfulfilled ballot, and a ballot from which no one can be sure and unequivocally determined which candidate was voted by the voter is considered invalid. After all the present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, he moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairperson in the presence of the representatives who helped him vote on the basis of the cast ballots. The Chair shall publish the results of the elections and appointments at the same session at which the secret vote was held. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots there have been, and how many MPs have voted in favour of the election, or for the appointment of an individual candidate. Furthermore, the chairman shall declare which of the candidates has been elected or appointed. I suggest that the MPs who help vote be Zlatko Tušak, he's gone. We can then Nedzad Hodzic, Zeljko Šemper, Marijan Skurić and Marija Lugaric. Can we define that? I'm setting a 10-minute break, and then we'll continue the debate. We still have to discuss the previous point. We will now publish the results after a vote has been made for the Ombudsman's mother-in-law. The results of the vote for the election of the Ombudsman are as follows: - I announce that 151 MPs are in the Croatian Parliament, and that the ballot was received by 84 MPs. 84 MPs voted. The wrong ballots were one. Voting results: - Ivana Goranić 1 vote, Lora Vidovic 82 votes. According to the vote, I declare that Lora Vidovic has been elected as the occupier. Congratulations and wish her successful work in favour of all of us and Croatian citizens. And now before I conclude today's session, let me inform you that we will continue on Tuesday 19 February at 9.30 p.m. with the first item of the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, so on the agenda. It will now be published on the website of the Croatian Parliament. By Tuesday or Monday, some good luck, I'll see you.
