ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32745	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government is referring to the procedure of the Parliament of the Proposal for a Law on the Gas Market. I also use this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Economy who held the debate, as well as the constructive proposals they made on that occasion. The basic reason for the adoption of this law stems from the need for full compliance with the 2009 Directive governing common rules of the internal natural gas market. This is the fourth law of a total of four, which is the EU's energy legislation of the so-called ". The third energy law package is coordinated, i.e. transposed into national legislation. Before this law was passed in October, the Energy Law, the Energy Regulation Act, was passed until last week, the Law on the electricity market was adopted at the Parliament. This law lays down the conditions for Croatia to be part of the EU common gas market, and the main areas of harmonisation of this law with the acquis are laid down in the provision of public household supply services, the protection of all final gas customers, regional solidarity and cooperation, the separation of transport system operators, the certification of transport system operators by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the definition of the activities of the natural gas terminal operators, the determination of closed distribution systems, the exemption for new infrastructure and the improvement of existing practices. The new legislation is also that the specific interest of the Republic of Croatia related to gas security is clearly defined so that gas, or natural gas from domestic production, must be delivered to the transport or distribution system of Croatia. Also, domestic gas must be offered primarily to suppliers in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Gas Market Act will continue to be carried out as public services and as market activities, and permits to carry out energy activities will be issued separately for market activities and separately for activities carried out as a public service. Gas supply is defined as the gas supply of final customers on the gas market through 3 activities: supply as a market activity, supply of gas in a public service intended for customers of the household category and as guaranteed gas supply for all those who temporarily acquire circumstances remain without their own supplier. In doing so, all customers, as well as gas and natural gas manufacturers, can access networks or transport and distribution systems in the same way. The activities carried out in the distribution and transport system and in the future LNG terminal must therefore be carried out in a transparent non-discriminatory manner, according to all participants in the gas market. The costs of carrying out the transport and distribution activities are regulated, based on the eligible costs of work, maintenance and development of the system. The supervision of the operation, of the activities carried out, of the infrastructure, i.e. on the transport activities, of the distribution is taken care of by HERA. As regards the model for the separation of regulated transport and distribution activities from the market activities of the production and supply of energy, the law covers all 3 models of the design of the gas transport system operator provided for in that Directive, i.e. the TSO ITO models were developed. Although Plinacro is set up as a 100% company owned by the Republic of Croatia over its own resources and separates it from other market activities in the gas sector, it is also necessary for it to pass the certification carried out by the Croatian Regulatory Agency and with the consent of the European Regulatory Agency and the European Commission. Furthermore, the energy activity that has seen more significant changes to this law is this proposal and gas distribution and this is in a way that part of the concessions in the distribution is in line with the new Law on concessions, and the rules on connection to the distribution network, i.e. to the distribution system, are more clearly defined. If the customer is not connected to the distribution system, it shall be determined that it should be paid to the distributor because it is located in its distribution area. This proposal also proposes new obligations to units of regional or regional self-government regarding gas supply monitoring in their area and government reporting, i.e. the competent ministry of the activities carried out. In order to ensure sufficient resources to meet the obligations in question, a fee shall be imposed for production plants where natural gas production is established, or a concession fee paid by the distributor that received the concession for the distribution of gas to the local community. The law further lays down provisions relating to protected customers under the Energy Act, the introduction of a guaranteed supply institute. All customers who are guaranteed supplies connected to the transport or distribution system shall be guaranteed a sufficient amount of natural gas in cases where their supplier ceases to work for any reason. The importer of the guaranteed supply provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to deliver the gas at the regulated price to those customers. It is also the most expensive price on the market. The law provides for special protection for customers of the category of household under public service unless they freely choose their supplier. The threatened customers shall also have the right to supply gas in the context of a public service provided that the competent social care authority has come up with a decision on the status of the dissuaded buyer. Furthermore, final customers are given easier access to the supplier registered in the EU. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by means of this proposal, designate an energy entity to be a public service supplier for the area of the unit of regional or regional self-government as well as in cases where the supplier ceases to work but only as an exceptional measure and if the market has failed in one segment. This proposal further provides for the possibility of exempting new infrastructure facilities from the application of third party access rights and the obligation of ownership separation of transport system operators in certain cases. Where a new infrastructure facility is located in the territory of several EU Member States, competent national regulatory authorities and ACER or energy regulators shall participate in the procedure of taking a decision on the exemption. This proposal also introduces the notion of a closed distribution system which includes a distribution system in a specific geographical area which is distributed to non-household final customers. The owner of the closed distribution system may apply the amount of compensation for the use of the closed distribution system which has self-determined. Finally, the law further provides that technical rules are to be adopted by a gas transport system operator, a natural gas terminal operator and for a distribution system of agencies which also adopts general conditions of gas supply and the compensation methodology and prices for certain energy activities carried out as a public service. The payment of planning and deviations in the supply and consumption of gas is entrusted to the Croatian energy market operator while the day-to-day alignments have taken place as part of the balance sheet groups on the basis of the liability of the balance sheet groups. I would like to thank you once again for the debate that has been held on the working bodies and thank you for your attention and for the debate that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32746	Thank you, too, for your esteemed Deputy Minister of Economy, Mrs Tamara Obradović Mazal. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to see the reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The debate begins with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There is a club called Independent List and a respected representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32747	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, distinguished Mr. MPs. Yes, as we have learned to choose a telephone operator as we choose between ducats, Vindy's milk or Rijeka's Istrian milkers, so the citizens will either be able to choose a gas supplier. That's how I'm going through this law. It looks pretty futuristic today, but tomorrow will be perfectly normal. What exactly is this law doing here? A new category of public service, so-called public service, would be introduced in the area of public service for the protection of final customers. the gas supply guaranteed to ensure that each buyer connected to the distribution gas is supplied with sufficient gas in cases where their supplier ceases to work for any reason. The gas supply or gas supply activity under the guaranteed supply would be carried out by the guaranteed supplier. In particular, this law pays particular attention to the requirement for the separation of network activity, the transport of gas on the production and supply of gas which can be achieved by selecting one of three models or by owning out or by dividing by an independent operator or by a third separation by an independent operator of the transport itself. What almost offends me in some way is that the Croatian state has missed several chances or better to say several opportunities to fight for such an energy sufficientness. We lost or almost lost the South Stream, we gambled in our own time if I wasn't mistaken, that was another 2005. The company of Adriu, which will be with the LNG terminal on Krk, it is God himself who simply does not know. We're not gonna do anything, and then a man asks himself a question about how long we're gonna act like that. When we could get to some representative investment we didn't want and now we just can't because this neighbouring market is getting more or less in crisis. However, it is clear that the essence of this law is primarily monitored through those roles which, when it comes to awarding or awarding concessions, have units of local or local self-government or regional self-government and, among other things, it is said in Article 36 that for the area or part of the area of the unit of regional self-government means a county where there is a distribution system, the representative body of the unit of the regional self-government means the county on behalf of the unit of the regional self-government gives a concession for gas distribution if, for that area, the public gas distribution service is dominant or public works are secondary to the main subject of the contract. This is Article 36. In the case of gas distribution concessions, Article 37 states that the concession provider is obliged, with the preparatory actions to grant the concession prescribed by law, to regulate the concession by the consignor of the local authorisation for a high pressure or medium pressure distribution pipeline. And now I'm asking myself what that actually means, that the county will be the ones that will need to solve the right of service to set up a pipe plus normally solve property for solid objects. What are the criteria for selecting the most favourable offers? This is defined in Article 39, and then it is said that the criteria on which the gas concession provider is based on the selection of the most economically favourable offers can be the quality of the service, the reliability of the gas supply and the annual amount of concession fee offered under the Regulation on the level and method of payment of the gas concession, the total amount of investment from the tendering documentation, the technical solution offered, the aesthetic functional etc. the characteristics of the documentation, the planned height of the tariff items, etc. We see here that the price means the concession itself is somewhere in the third place. and indeed, this price criterion should begin to be treated differently when it comes to other public offers or works. In Croatia, not in general, they pass only the lowest prices, which does not mean that the lowest price is also the most favourable price. It is often the principle of this lowest price, so I would dare to make the most expensive solution. Often this is the principle of playing all the competition criteria. It might be best, I don't know how they do it so at least we builders say, say, the Germans or the Austrians to reject that lowest one of those highest prices and to choose between the other and the last one simply prices. The builders say it would be or in such a way that everything would be far more transparent and far more honest. Article 41 of the Law refers to the termination of the concession, and here it is said that the concessionr may unilaterally terminate the concession contract and in the following cases, if the concessionary has not issued an authorisation to carry out the energy activity, the distribution of gas within the time limit provided for by the concession agreement, if the concessionary is permanently withdrawn from the authorisation to carry out the energy activity of the gas distribution activity before its expiry, if the concessionary has not issued a new authorisation to carry out the energy activity, if the concessionary transfers the authorisation to another legal person, etc. Article 89 of the Law refers to the general conditions of gas supply and gas supply quality conditions are prescribed by general conditions of gas supply. What is certainly important in point 9 of the change of supply procedure for the guaranteed supplyer is supply, so good does not matter. In one word, this third as I would call the energy regulation package contains new solutions for the establishment if it can be said in a fully liberalised energy sector, mainly when it comes to gas. I place a clear emphasis on concessions of any county or protection of final customers, more specifically that this final customer can choose a supplier. All in all, this law, as we see it, bears the label of the PZE, means it's a European law, it's probably a copy of similar European laws, and we simply don't have a lot of space to define that question or that market significantly differently. I want to believe that by establishing or adopting such a law will make everyone better, it should be better and therefore this law should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32748	Thank you very much, Your Honor. One replica is Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32749	Dear colleague Cain, I will only show myself in this replica in two things because this is not a revolution in Croatia that is related to the gas market, and here is the right to special protection of a particular form of social assistance would be achieved by endangered customers in the category of household. So we really helped them this year and last year, when we raised the price of natural gas there in the 5th month, almost 32%, and where the price is and among the larger ones in Europe per cubic area is 3.60 for households, and for small producers 4.23, for medium-sized consumers 5.25. So if you compare that to the prices of natural gas in the environment, you can only go to Hungary where the same distributor, i.e. the owner of INA, is selling to its citizens and their economy by 40% lower natural gas price. The second thing to pay particular attention to in this law is not only the concession fee but the concession authority which cannot be separated and is in symbiosis of the units of local and regional self-government because it is the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government, and regional self-government can participate in a particular I would say or finance if the local self-government unit enters as an investor of gasification of certain local self-government. But it cannot make a decision is to make that decision necessary in the area of regional self-government requires consent from all units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32750	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32751	I agree with you, Mr Vinkovic, that the revolution simply does not need us as it is also true that INA, MOL Pardon, is a much lower price or gas at significantly lower prices delivers to the residents of Hungary and perhaps some other markets on which it operates. However, I think the fundamental question is something else, at a clear price, because it affects tens of thousands of Croatian households. Who put that INA in Croatia? That's the point. The company which in some ways brought the war to a certain extent is also being sold and today we see that some who participated in the purchases at the County Court in Zagreb are being tried. I don't know how individuals are gonna get higher and more of that stuff and spend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32752	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn and the respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32753	Thank you very much. Dear President, the respected deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The gas market law regulates the rules and measures for safe and reliable production, transport, storage, terminal management for ingested natural gas, gas distribution and supply, and the organisation of the gas market as part of the European Union's gas market. Rules relating to the protection of customers, the organisation and functioning of the gas sector, the concession for gas distribution and the concession for the construction of a distribution system, the right to access a third party, the model of balance sheet groups, open market access, the determination of the obligations of general services and the rights of gas customers, including the rights of final customers, separate management of business books, financial reports, rules of access to the gas system, principles of reciprocity and cross-border transport of gas are laid down. The reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began in 2001, and the Energy Law adopted the first set of laws governing the implementation of certain energy activities including the Gas Market Act. This also established a legislative framework for the restructuring and reorganisation of the energy sector, the opening of energy markets and the regulation of energy activities. That reform covers the restructuring of energy subjects and the creation of a new legislative and institutional framework, the establishment of market rules, public service obligations and the separation of energy activities to market and regulated. On the way to EU membership, energy legislation has become one of the most important segments, including the obligation to adapt properly to European energy legislation and standards of organisation of the internal energy market. In fact, the regulatory frameworks at the time were not quite clear, so in 2004, there were necessary changes to energy legislation and the regulatory framework until 2007 when a new gas market law was adopted. Accession negotiations with the EU regarding the law in question were conducted under Chapter XV. – Energy, and in part under Chapter XXI. Trans-European networks involving, among other things, energy infrastructure. In late November 2009, the European Union established that the Republic of Croatia meets criteria, including strengthening the natural gas electricity market for the temporary closure of Chapter XV. as long as Chapter XXI is. Done something earlier. The third energy regulation package contains new solutions for the establishment of a fully liberalised and efficient energy sector as the most important features can highlight the requirements for consistent separation of the network of activities from production and supply activities, a uniform and connected energy sector regulation system, an increase in regional cooperation between EU Member States and candidate countries, non-discrimination among market participants and strengthening competition, and effective protection of final customers. The necessary changes and additions of energy laws are determined by the chosen solutions regarding binding requirements of the so-called A third energy package and selected changes to improve existing practices. At the same time, this is also an opportunity to supplement energy laws in order to make their application simpler. The harmonisation of Croatian energy legislation is required not only because of the nature and the necessary changes, but also because all legal and sublegal acts should be harmonised in the short term. A new law on the gas market needs to be adopted because the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its energy legislation with the EU acquis on energy, which includes compliance with the so-called The third package of EU energy regulations. In particular, significant changes to the Gas Market Act were needed in the area governing the public service obligation, security of supply, transport distribution of gas, liberalisation of the gas market, and protection of customers. The main areas of coordination are the provision of public service, supply and protection of final customers, regional solidarity and cooperation, separation of transport system operators, certification of transport system operators, identification of closed distribution systems, exemption for new infrastructure and improvement of existing practices. In the field of public service, supply and protection of final customers, so-called the gas supply guaranteed to ensure that each buyer connected to the distribution pipeline is supplied with sufficient gas in cases where their supplier ceases to work for any reason. The gas supply or gas supply activity under the guaranteed supply would be carried out by the guaranteed supplier. The final customers would be able to access the supplier registered in the EU more easily because it should not pass the process of obtaining a permit in the Republic of Croatia, but should be agreed by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to comply with the market rules and rules on the balance of the gas system. The right to special protection and certain forms of social assistance would be achieved by endangered household customers. This status would have end-users to whom welfare authorities would determine the endangered social status or threat to life and health in the event of a natural gas supply restriction. In the area of regional solidarity, cooperation between Member States would be established in the event of a crisis situation in one or more Member States and measures to be taken in the same cases. It shall pay particular attention to the requirement to separate the network of activities, the transport of gas from the production and gas supply activities that can be achieved by selecting one of the three models, the ownership separation of the transport system operator in which the owner of the network becomes an independent operator of the transport system, the separation of an independent system operator or the separation by an independent transport operator model. Although the existing transport system operator in the Republic of Croatia is Plinarro d.o.o. prepares for certification in accordance with the above-mentioned models for the regulation of this area at the legislative level would include all potential future operators of the transparent system. The following newspaper is also introduced, in the area of natural gas distribution, a closed distribution system belt relating to a distribution system in a specific geographical area in which gas is distributed to customers of the category of industry and service activity excluding households. In that case, an operator of the closed distribution system will be able to result in an exemption from the adoption of a tariff distribution system. In the area of new infrastructure, large new infrastructure facilities of the gas system have the possibility to be exempted from the right to access the third party and the obligations of the owner... of the transparent system operator on certain systems. Furthermore, the adoption of sub-legal general acts relating to technical rules for the management of individual systems would be entrusted to any entity managing one of the systems... with the consent of HERA, i.e. for all activities carried out as a public service, a price-setting methodology would also be adopted for energy operators to determine the price with the consent of HERA. The energy performance permits would be issued separately for market activity and separately for an activity to be performed as a public service. And here, at the end of the implementation of this law, no additional resources will be needed in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, so the SDP club will support this Final Proposal of the Gas Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32754	Thank you, Your Honor. We have announced replicas. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32755	Dear colleague Babic, I think the matter should be completely crystallized and not talked about customer protection here. Here are the data that are related to the price that goes towards industrial consumers, and it is very easy to get information that in the last 4 years the gas has accumulated 93% in Croatia and thus made it possible for INA or MOL to profit extra. And then we're talking about customer protection. Even in Plan 21 there was a reduction in the price of this gas for industrial consumers, so we came up with this on the basis of which data came before the Government of the Ministry of Economy, at this point we have the price in euro per kilowatt hour because this is how it counts in Croatia 0.43 euros, in Hungary 0.038, Romania is 0.23, in the Czech Republic 0.030 I have practically all the data. So in Croatia we have the most expensive gas. Not only for industry and large consumers who should have had a significantly reduced price of gas compared to the European market but also for households where this amount is without VAT is 4.23. And if we add 25% of VAT then we will see that we have indeed protected both the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens who use natural gas with the highest price in Europe, that is, in the EU. Not to mention the wider region. And that's the protection that comes all the way from this law. And since it's my profession because I worked in HEP storage, distribution and transport will greatly increase the price of natural gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32756	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32757	... Dear colleague Vinkovic, most of the things you said were absolutely correct. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] It is also true that for decades the industry has been paying more gas than households, but here is what the Hungarians have done to us with gas prices and I believe that with these measures to show a special interest where we will have the security to sell our gas first in Croatia, but also by liberalising the market that we will be able to get a cheaper price of gas. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32758	Thank you, too. Another replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32759	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Babic noticed your claim that a guaranteed gas supply would guarantee a sufficient amount of gas to each buyer connected to the distribution pipeline in case their supplier stopped working. I understood that in that tech part, absolutely. But there's another problem I want to warn you about. In rural areas, many of our elderly in terms of age care and some quality of life were introduced by the pipeline, they introduced gas into their households that were very expensive investments. We know very well that they are one of the biggest such investments. And what happened? Here we live specifically on the gas in the county from which I come and it gives the most raw material, so the gas gives for the market. And what's going on? The price of gas is gone we know how. And now they can't pay anymore. Of course, they're shutting down. Woods can't be made in the woods because they're old and powerless. Those lists in local heating aid units are getting bigger every day. And now in these circumstances talk about some kind of consumer and customer protection I think I'm holding really unserious in these circumstances. The situation is very difficult, the executions arrive every day. Here's yesterday I got the same one of our pensioners who have a hard time living and it's really a duty in this place to warn these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32760	Thank you, too. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It's the HDZ Club and the Honorable Representative, Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32761	Dear Mr. President, Deputy, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The gas market law is another in a series of laws that bring Croatia's legislation into line with EU energy regulations and finally with a third package containing a new solution to the establishment of a fully liberalised and efficient energy sector. The most important feature of these energy regulations is the requirements to separate network activities from the production and supply activities of a uniform and integrated energy sector regulation system, to increase regional cooperation between EU members, to strengthen competition, and to protect end-users effectively. Up until now, the Republic of Croatia has almost fully implemented compliance with the second EU energy regulation package in the area of the gas market, and in particular, the significant and significant construction of network infrastructure for the transport area as well as for the area of distribution. Thanks to this, the transport system operator is practically functioning in Croatia, it is a PLINACRO company and a transport system owned by PLINACRO consists of 2113km of bus and regional pipelines, over 300 above-ground facilities, 9 entry, measurement stations and 132 exit stations. The transport system includes gas production of Panon and Adriatic fields, underground gas storage around 37 distribution systems, 27 direct pipelines of final customers. All of this is managed from the central national dispatch centre. It is clear that this company has been one of the leading infrastructure investors in the past. Only 2009, 2010 and 2011. PLINACRO has invested more than 2 billion kunas in the construction of the pipeline. In particular, I stress the interconnection towards Hungary, which provides a second natural gas supply route, thus ensuring the stability of the supply of Croatian consumers as well as the development of the gas market. However, that was all when something else was invested in Croatia. What PLINACRO is doing now, like other public companies, no one knows. It's just that you can see the result, unfortunately, that it doesn't have. Building a high pressure gas network opened up a space for investing local distributors who brought gas into the houses of many Croatian consumers, as well as the possibility of entering new players into the gas supply area. However, last year's decision by the government, which allowed gas collection of more than 35%, and accounts which these winter days put into despair of Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy still remaining, also leads this successful gas story to a completely uncertain future. As is the case with electricity markets and this law is attempting to define all possible forms of gas market organisation and to regulate the mutual relations of participants in the market. But in practice, the situation is much clearer and today's participants will have to be partially reorganized by the provisions defined by this law. One of the important newspapers that is valid here is the possibility of carrying out supply or gas trade by a legal or natural person whose head office is in the EU Member State, of course with the permission to be issued by the Croatian Regulatory Agency. In addition, in the field of public service supply and protection of final customers, so-called the gas supply guaranteed whose role is to guarantee to each buyer a sufficient amount of gas in cases where their supplier ceases to work for any reason. The supply would be provided by a guaranteed supplier. Although the idea itself is certainly interesting to see how the proposed solutions only imagined the implementation of this idea. The guaranteed supplier becomes so that the government decides on a proposal from the ministry, with the agency's approval. The Agency will give its opinion by conducting a market functioning survey, as the law states, implementing it under Article 51, and this article only speaks of the development of competition. Neither in this article nor anywhere in the law is it stated by which criteria this will give the status of the guaranteed supplier, but it is therefore quite detailed on the conditions under which that supply will be implemented. Articles 56 to 59 speak of this, and it is interesting to note Article 5 of Article 56 that the tariff item for guaranteed supply is higher than the tariff items for the supply of final customers. What's actually going on here? It is known that in the Republic of Croatia we have a network of 40 distributors, or suppliers, as this law now defines. The business and financial situation is quite complex in most of them, especially in the smaller ones, and there is a risk of some of them falling apart as a result of major problems. This law provides that if this happens, the Government will determine for a public service supplier the gas supplier that had the largest share in the gas market in the previous year. Certain units of the regional or regional self-government share of the supply of gas to customers on the distribution system. As a rule, small suppliers have a lower tariff, and therefore they are mostly in trouble. And now it will happen that instead of them, this market will take over more, with a higher tariff item, which means an increase in gas prices. The exact opposite of what should be, if the rounding is already happening, which may well be the aim of the legislator, then it should be seen as a result of a lower price of service or gas. For example. in the area of one city in Podravina, one supplier is in trouble, has a tariff item of 0.028 kuna per kilowatt hour, another supplier with a tariff sentence of 0,038 kuna per kilowatt hour operates in the neighbouring city and is not in trouble. If this first one fails, then his supplier will come with a larger tariff item because it allows him to propose a law. I therefore propose that Article 55(3) also states that it is not possible for the person who is taking the place, so this supplier who has stopped working immediately and implements the tariff item he had in the second unit of local self-government in another area. If this solution remains on the market, several suppliers will remain, which may not be the biggest problem but the problem is that they will automatically implement higher prices for their services or higher tariff items for final customers. Something similar is also defined in the transitional and final provisions of Article 105, so natural gas company. The company, which has been a gas supplier so far, is now becoming a supplier or is determined by the guaranteed supplier by 31.03.2014. This article provides that if some consumers experience gas being delivered at a certain point by natural gas company after the first 30 days of gas prices will be delivered at the price of balancing energy and it is generally twice the market price. This will last until 1.4.2014 until the government redefines the guaranteed supplier. It is good that consumers know who the guaranteed supplier is but it is not good that it is defined in this way and that one company is placed on the market in that position. In particular, Articles 56 and 105 are in conflict with the legality of the market. The guaranteed supplier should be a supplier temporarily providing guaranteed supplies but not with an increased tariff item as set out in Article 56(5), there is also no reason for the guaranteed supplier to be selected within three years and thus to practically monopolise the gas market of those suppliers which have ceased to work. The guaranteed supplier shall perform that function with the same height of the tariff items until the Government has determined that supplier who is willing to take over the supply with the most favourable supply conditions. In addition to that, I point out two new provisions of Article 13(6) and Article 74(3) which were not discussed at expert levels and by the interested public. Those provisions provide for the introduction of two new compensations for economic operators without having any impact assessment on economic activities and investments at all. How is it possible that all new burdens to economic operators produced by this government come from laws that introduce new burdens in a way that does not talk to the economy at all. And the final complexity and weight of this law and possible consequences for all the participants in the gas market, and especially for consumers, because ultimately the bill is delivered to citizens and the economy, certainly requires more time and more debate and it would be good if the law goes into two readings. It would certainly give the proposer a chance to correct all the mistakes this law has made, to the expert public, to contribute more actively to the quality of the law. And I am particularly concerned that the participants in the gas market may assume obligations under this law in view of their technical financial and human resources. But what is particularly problematic in this law is limiting the freedom of competition and thus reducing the possibility of ultimately cheaper gas. Here's why we're holding that the HDZ Club can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32762	Thank you, too. Now it's the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32763	Dear fellow Drinker. I would refer to only one of your sentences, actually, which is supported by a few more, which is when you said the full liberalisation of the market or strengthening competition. And when this is said, when said by people who are prone to neoliberal capitalism, it sounds like you said chocolate, something tempting, now there will be freedom, there will be a free market. Only a child eats chocolate without awareness of its consequences. A grown man knows what chocolate means, that it spoils teeth and thickens. Complete liberalisation has not brought happiness to anyone, i.e. it has brought happiness to only 1% of the population, and 99% of the population of the globe is at odds every day with this complete liberalisation of the market. Complete liberalisation is promoted as well as soap, brainwashing people as if it were the best thing that could happen to us, and when the most significant competitors in this completely free market fall, then state intervention is required of them. Even the biggest advocates of neoliberal capitalism have admitted that there is no fully free market and that there is no complete liberalisation of the market and that the state needs to intervene, it has already slowed down in the world for 30 years. Auto-industry was also saved by taxpayers, banks were saved by taxpayers. Therefore, when a sentence is spoken, full market liberalisation should also be considered the consequences. There'll be an increase in gas prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32764	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32765	I don't know if you were talking about chocolate or gas. I'd like to tell you that one of the worst monopolies is, of course, a state monopoly and, of course, corporate if there's no market freedom. That's what we should know. You've known that for 150 years. I'd also like to say that you need to know that gas is like any other product. So in order for that flame to start on the stove, someone has to take out that gas so they have to invest huge funds, have to transport it, distribute it, which is why they need to build some kind of infrastructure and lead to the end of the consumer. As you like to go to the store, I don't know if since you hate everything that's here comes from this world with some big supermarket and you choose the same product but different manufacturers, we're talking about Europe providing these laws so that the gas can be bought from different manufacturers, that's what this is about. And it certainly brings to a safer, more successful and cheaper price of that energy. I repeat, the worst thing that can happen to us is to monopolize and enable some of these monopolies in Croatia, of course, to dictate both the market and the conditions and the way and ultimately very questionable spells and the security of gas supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32766	Thank you very much. New Graces of Replica and Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32767	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have actually touched the key topics of course, of your colleagues on the left, and you did not want to mention it, which means that you can successfully do something through state-owned companies. Because in order to talk about this law at all today, we should invest billions of kunas, it should finally be possible that gas from the northern Adriatic can come through Croatian producers not to go around Italy and Slovenia, it should also have been possible for certain Croatian large consumers to get directly to the pipeline in Hungary and thus be put in a position to buy cheaper gas because if they had not made an interconnection with Hungary, they would not be able to discuss this with me today. But what needs to be added to this fellow Popioč, which is what this government has practically stopped, and that's what's worth us getting the freeway to Dupolje because nothing works for local self-government units to do distribution networks. Because look, if you raise the price of gas 37% logically is that everyone is doing a home account and says listen in this crisis doesn't pay me to go to the gas, something I'm going to patch up on the other side and wait for better times because it's not just gas to come to the clock on the house you need to change the entire heating system inside, everything needs to be invested, it needs to be invested several thousand euros to even get into a position to spend that gas. And in order to have cheaper gas, it takes as many consumers as possible. In order for the Croatian industry to get cheaper gas, then the logical thing is that those who spend large amounts of gas in summer months, and then citizens and households... the gas that they can get lower and cheaper prices then they are in such a way and program their production... consumes more gas. So that this law could be applied should have done a lot. Some have been able to do so, and some, unfortunately, with pay cuts and an increase in gas prices, stop the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32768	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32769	Yeah, you've got a good spot on a fellow Shucker. So in the last few years we've only mentioned the last three years of the 9th, 10th and 11. That more than 2 billion kunas only Plinacro invested in the development of the structure, if we still move it a few years back, so over a thousand kilometers of high pressure master gas pipeline was built as a refugee as the backbone of the Croatian gas system. And, of course, the immeasurable and invaluable value and the gas pipeline itself, so the Miholjac interconnection towards Hungary. This has indeed provided and enabled long-term stability, and as the diversification of supply routes is said. We are now sure that no gas crisis or at least the biggest part of the problem of those who were the cause and in 2008 of that gas crisis should be repeated because here these investments allow different gas supply routes to lead safely to Croatian consumers. But, of course, in unsettled relations with the government, allowing these monopolies precisely to create the price in the way it suits them, and we only hope that when this law is implemented and the gas market opens up when other players on this market will eventually be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32770	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32771	Thank you very much, President. I answered the replica when you mentioned that case from Podravina, which is an example that is possible. The supplier that's in difficulty and if I'm not wrong, you said the price, the neighbor has 0.38 you suggested there even to install some protective version as you can't raise the price more than the supplier that was already in that city, the place doesn't matter. However, do you feel that a new supplier would come and agree to work under these conditions when there are others elsewhere? He'll say no, see my price is my price and eventually the deputy said the price is formed at real cost. The real cost will say ok. For me, the real cost is my 0.38 and not 0.28 and I don't want to work on it. And then we have a situation that we have to allow him to raise prices, but then we get to this second one, and now I'm reacting to this as you responded to the replica, we come up with some other situation, and we end up with this state monopoly and we create a private monopoly. Why is the state monopoly worse than a private monopoly? The state should be in one part of the social, at least have that component in it. What about private? She has that obligation. He uses what he's got, uses the maximum, pulls as much as he can out of it, and that social part doesn't interest him at all. Even in this bill, it says to you that if there is a crisis, then the state jumps in, and we boast in the first part with the liberalisation of the market. But that protection mechanism still remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32772	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32773	So if you remember, in 2011, we just limited the price of gas for the economy to the industry which after some time and that decision here's the new government and abolished. As for the supplier who will come instead of the one who has fallen. So it's not controversial, but it's a controversial way he keeps doing it. Therefore, it should be possible until the local self-government provides a new supplier with any kind of competition, that whoever is in that area, so who writes the criteria here, so that whoever is largest in that area continues to work in that city on the tariff item as he had before until the most favourable one is chosen, and then let the local self-government choose whoever wants to do so on the most favourable conditions. That's all it's about. Therefore, this may happen indefinitely and that this rounding actually happens to the users and that they remain on the market several, but with significantly higher tariff items than that market, which would regulate the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32774	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32775	Here's my dear colleague, for the first time I've heard that the replica has its blessings, and then we'll enjoy these blessings as the President of the Croatian Parliament has said. But here, first of all, I want to find that no matter what law we adopt, do not adopt, give certain observations to the final customer, so the consumer was a legal or natural person, whether a citizen or a company primarily interested in the price of gas, the price of cubic matter. In Croatia, therefore, all gas consumers are also interested in the most favourable price of gas, the lowest possible price of gas. But the fact is that we have the most expensive gas in Europe, the most expensive gas. We increased it through storage, transport, distribution and that this price of gas is closely related to the political cycles that are happening in the Republic of Croatia, that is, for elections. So plan 21 also includes lower energy prices, and the first thing that was made was an increase of almost 37% just for natural gas. I don't mean just that warm energy to certain citizens, but this was in 5 months 37% of the natural gas price went away, and in the last 4 years the total gas, the price of gas collected by 93%, so the former government has its hands up in price hikes, so we won't raise before the elections, but as soon as the elections go through, we'll raise that price for gas. And at the same time, the only person with extra profits at this point is MOL, the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32776	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Natalija Martincevic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32777	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, as already said several times today, this Gas Market Act is another one in a series of laws that aligns the energy legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the third package of EU energy legislation and transposes guidelines into the law, a directive that prescribes the way in which activities will be carried out in the common European gas market. It is important here to stress that, as in other energy laws, special attention is given to the separation of activities carried out over networks that are natural monopolies from those carried out as market activities. This means that gas transport system operators must be owned or functionally separated from the activities of production, supply or gas trade and, in that sense, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Directive, three possible models of the organisation of operators over the TeSO gas transport network, ITO and ISO are also transferred. As in electricity, there are two key principles in the process to be decided and in which a particular model is certified by which the operator is set up. One is an independent decision on investment, and the other is independence in day-to-day business and maintenance. Namely, the construction and development of the gas transport system must rest on the security of gas delivery and must reflect the needs and increased consumption and there are ten-year plans for the operator's investment. If the energy regulator or HERA accepts them, the operator may calculate that he will receive the money he has invested. As each user of the transport system is obliged to pay in a transparent, clearly prescribed way the tariff for the use of the gas transport system, the Agency is responsible for the cost-effective, or acceptable projects in the plans. Croatian projects will also be evaluated on the European platform. The more a project contributes to regional or wider stability of gas supply, the more it will also be accepted as a potential project of common interest by the EU, which can then, of course, receive funds from European funds. After the adoption of this law, the terminal for the natural gas installed may become exactly one of these projects because this law prescribes all the elements that ensure that such a project is implemented in accordance with the European Energy Regulatory Framework. Gas distribution is also a regulated activity. The gas price for customers on the distribution system shall include a distribution fee which is regulated and at its height, according to its methodology, shall be approved by the Agency. However, the price of the gas distribution service itself depends significantly on both the distributor, the character and the size of the consumer and the consumption and the conditions of the concession for which regional, or regional self-government is responsible. The proposal for a law is fully in line with the Law on concessions, thus awarding concessions, as well as the development of a distribution system, as well as the monitoring of gas supply and demand, the responsibility of the regional or local self-government in which the distributor or concessionary operates. In this respect, there is a difference in gas prices for end-users although, as so far, gas prices for households in public service will form equally for all customers. In the future, to develop distribution systems, consumers in the concession area, even though they are connected to the transport system, will pay a fee to the distributor to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a regulation. The distributor, however, pays compensation to units of the local community as it has been so far. The provision of public service obligations for a specific distribution area whose primary purpose is to issue an account may be carried out by the same gas distribution company, however, the accounts must be separate for each activity for which the company is authorised. In addition to the emergence of new suppliers, i.e. competition on the market, the law will also necessarily lead to the rounding of the distribution area and distributors, and in order to be more efficient in carrying out the distribution activities. All customers including households will be able to choose their supplier in a public service obligation in a specific distribution area which is resolved by mutual contractual relationship. The change in the supplier must take place within 3 weeks. There was a discussion committee here in the settlement of commitments to the previous supplier. I think that law is really well regulated. Therefore, when changing the supplier, all obligations must be met to the supplier so far so as not to put this possibility of changing the supplier's use. However, the biggest newspaper adopted by this law is certainly a provision that speaks for gas production. Natural gas produced from gas fields on the territory of the Republic of Croatia must be transferred to the gas system of the Republic of Croatia. So, if we remember sometimes our gas from the epicontinental belt in the northern Adriatic, in Croatia we imported through Italy and Slovenia and of course made transporters in other countries. With this law, the gas manufacturer in the Republic of Croatia will have to offer the gas to customers in Croatia first. The gas will be able to be performed but only after it has been taken over into the Croatian gas system. Therefore, production itself will be able to be monitored more effectively and the manufacturer's obligation is a report on plans and compensation to the local community. The new Law on hydrocarbons and exploitation, which is based on some data in preparation, will also determine the cost of exploitation, i.e.... which is paid to the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal for a law further, which is extremely important, concerns the continuity of gas supply and addresses issues related to those customers to be protected in conditions where they lose the supplier. The government will determine after exploring the guaranteed supplier's market in the Republic of Croatia, and may, if necessary, identify the supplier in the public service. By the time the leased and storage facilities are released, the public service supplier supplying the household will be natural gas. As part of this, I would also refer to clearly defined end-user rights because, of course, we consider it extremely important, which are therefore defined as the right to free choice and free change of supplier, the right to object to the supplier's work, the right to supply relevant gas consumption data in writing, the right to connect gas devices to the transport system or distribution system, the right to build a direct gas pipeline under the conditions prescribed by this law and the right to supply gas by the gas supplier in connection with the public gas supply service obligation. Furthermore, Article 65 lays down the rights of customers under special protection under public service and guaranteed supply, so that customers who result in a decision on the status of the threatened buyer by the competent social care authority are entitled to special protection, i.e. they have the right to supply gas. The competent social care authority shall also plan and provide funds for the payment of the supplied gas to the threatened buyer. HERA shall be responsible for the effective implementation and development of transparent and non-discriminatory market relations. The transmission system operator is also responsible for security of supply, while the platform on which the day-to-day contracts are implemented is the responsibility of the Croatian Energy Market Operator. In this sense, and there are no larger newspapers since the balance sheet model has been set up and business is taking place in a similar manner this year. The paper of the law is that in households on central heat systems in buildings that have gas boilers gas is delivered at the price at which it is delivered to final customers of gas from the category of household. The new Energy Efficiency Directive prescribes the need for efficient energy production. Heat energy in one building is, of course, more efficient products in central heat systems than in individual floors, however, in order to make this financially possible and to recognise the need for an adequate change of legislation. And we expect that soon the proposer will propose to this House and the new law on the heat market, which, of course, is the previous step. And I might also mention something that customers, i.e. consumers and regional distributors are warning about, first of all, how to account for the collection, i.e. to change the unit of billing from kilowatts to cubes. Why is that a question? All measuring instruments are based on cubes and consumption is calculated in cubes, and it is converted by formula to kilowatts, which, of course, leads to a lack of understanding and what is paid for. In accounts, though, I think most distributors in Varazdin think that there is a formula from which the calculation is seen, but for most people it is quite complicated and customers do not understand it. And because of this, we think that the solution that exists in most EU countries, which is therefore to be calculated in the consumption unit, which is cubes, would be far more fair and transparent. And we think that, in that sense, given the liberalisation of the market that is now following us, we should definitely think about it seriously. With this proposal, she would conclude her debate and the HNS club would support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32778	Thank you very much. And now it's time for the replica of the respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32779	You see, dear fellow Members, no law should be taken for granted, not even this one. Among other things, regardless of what comes from the Ministry of Economy where the minister of the HNS is, but this law also has a series, I would not only say technical problems, but has something in particular to do with the relationship between local and regional self-government units and cannot be explained by the way that it will come to an agreement. This cannot be a solution to you if the jurisdiction to grant a concession of gas supply is not the jurisdiction of regional self-government which has some other possibilities to grant concessions such as hunting grounds, etc., but this is the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government. On the other hand, this law does not solve important problems. So the most important problem, you go into the gasification of a settlement, complete the gasification regardless of whether a state-owned company, be a private company, unfortunately we don't have a state anymore because it's privatized, but you have a very low response of those who want to join the gas network. It's not about the price of the connection, it's about the price of the cubic or kilowatt, not to talk about the formula of the conversion which is the same scam of citizens, or of the energy, calories value and the heating value of that gas being delivered. And then we get more, and many of those who are connected to the gas have to go, and maybe even 3 or 6 pay in minus, and then, and now, and this decision by the Ministry of Finance, we're going to shut everything out of the gas because they won't be able to pay the highest price of natural gas, either by cubicity, or by kilowatt in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32780	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32781	Well, here's a short one, this law formally comes from the Ministry of Economy, but as I think all the MPs have presented in their presentations, this is a alignment with EU legislation. We are in line here with what we have accepted when we have decided on the EU, when we have completed negotiations in that chapter, therefore this law is the consequence of this and of the harmonisation that we simply have to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32782	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Mladen Novak are on their way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As already said on several occasions here, it is about harmonising the EU rules now, so we haven't had one more law in the package that refers to electricity and just harmonising with EU regulations, and EU regulations alone is not necessarily evil, or should be something that is positive, which is good. However, such laws are written somewhere outside Germany, Brussels does not matter and are written in a way that gives us a chance, they allow us to take that opportunity. Whether we're going to use it and in what way, it's up to us again. Whether we behave in accordance with national interests, with the interests of the citizens of this country or we will behave in accordance with the expectations of large corporations and megafirms both in Europe and in the world. The third package, in this text, allows for the establishment of a fully liberalised and efficient energy system. Now, this is a liberalized possibility, but it's not necessarily the best solution. What is the reason why, for example, the question about the monopoly of the state was raised earlier, why does the state monopoly burn on a private company monopoly? The state has to have, it has to keep that social component, the private company doesn't have to, it doesn't have to, it won't, it won't because it's working on its own, it works exclusively for profit. And this, if this division, is just a colleague who mentioned it from that profession, and I say that's true, this division into these 3 segments is just going to collect the costs, they're going to collect the price to the end-user. And we justify it with, I don't know, I don't know, EU regulations, and I don't know what we're not going to invent to convince ourselves that we're doing something in our subconscious that we actually know isn't good. The possibility of liberalisation is not necessarily, does not represent the necessity of selling, but I will mention one more, because I am also taking this opportunity to draw attention to a problem that is also current but is obviously not as interesting to the media and the public. Last year I mentioned the problem of the Croatian Railways and that through one law a basis for change is created or legal status change is said there because of the division of train draws. It was a change for sales, and now it's proven that it's true and that you lied and it's true that you lied then, you lied shamelessly, but that's what people should be told, because it's over, it's forgotten. Then it was said that the division of train draws, it's also done with HEP, it's also now done with the gas market, what interests are we protecting, whose? Although not everything is even for bad purposes, they have some stimuli, here's what EU funds will do. The EU funds will not solve anything, nothing will solve the EU funds themselves. In order for the EU funds to be able to meet their purpose, first we have to do our part of the job, we have to invest our share of the funds just don't know which. We have to invest our brains and to invest our brains first we have to do and engage in some projects to make reality is such that we don't have projects. What we're doing now is pulling some 20-, 30-, 50-year-old projects that are a complete failure. One sentence really surprised me. I must admit I do not experience myself but it is so in Croatia, we are all the greatest economists and we know the economic postulates probably all better than the Minister of Finance. So we're all selectors too, so we know better football composition than the current selector. So I can't convince myself of this finding. For the insurance of the market, the supply is considered to be a responsible market. The market is something that is, it's not something solid that you can hold on to. It's not just a regulated market. After all, I've already mentioned it in my replica. When crisis situations happen again, the regulatory factor is sought, again the state jumps in. Now I just don't understand how when profits are made, then the state doesn't have a place because that's something that's profitable, let's make it possible for private investments and then that's good. Then it'll work. Which is why it will not work if, among other things, HER as independent and independent people are known to be political. And now all of a sudden it's going to work and if it's the state administration, then if it's a public firm, then it's not working. I don't think that story holds water together, but obviously it's the easiest thing to explain today. It is mentioned here that the price depends on the eligible costs. So what expenses this day will not be justified. It is also mentioned that the right of end-user. Which means the end-user of every consumer on the street will have the right to choose a supplier. I ask those who are in the profession, is that possible? Who know well the profession, it's possible that the two of us on the same street have different suppliers, and we're the ultimate users. I don't think that's possible. Only this law does not deal with a problem that I intend to draw attention to, and that is, the situation with an industry that is the main raw material, that is, one of the main raw materials of gas. Well, we have what I find very interesting is Petrochemy Kutina because it's in my field. I find the stories that appear in the media even more interesting to me is the site of the State Office for the Management of State Property, although my deputy already told me that during last debate that it does not hold water and that for the first time it hears the news and now I am interested that the State Office is publishing something that the government obviously has no idea about. They should be called to order, and I expect you to initiate the procedure of changing these people. If they work so irresponsiblely, then it's not right and that's what people need to know. If this same Petrochemy today is due to, say, imagination of will and I say because of the entry of GASPROM into the Republic of Croatia is in a situation that because of another Russian partner becomes a package of Russian artificial fertilisers for which they currently do not have a market and have it in quite large quantities but that is also not the quality that is ours, so when Petrochemy Kutina makes a package of artificial fertilisers, it will not be an additional blow to agriculture, however, it is not the subject of this law directly but consequently certainly is. In the introductory part, the deputy noted that and the social category, I must admit that the social category with this all the information that the colleague provided about the price of gas for our citizens in Croatia compared to the prices of gas for the citizens of the surrounding countries, then the really social category is very questionable under number one, and number two as we go our standard of living and how the costs are still going, so it will happen that over 90% of gas users could easily be classified into the social category. As far as surveillance is concerned, surveillance has been processed with a short chapter of approximately half of the page, and it is not even half the page, and it is found that the ministry will monitor it, or the ministry, will bring it down to the inspectors. But the first question is, do they have anything to do with, do they have personnel, and on the other hand, who will if they have nothing to do with anyone? who will control the quality of these products that we have or which we get? Who's gonna deal with it? There's a similar story about oil and oil derivatives, and this is the part, and we're practically getting into this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32784	Thank you, Your Honor. Your exposure caused a reaction by a replica of six MPs. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32785	Dear fellow, the fact is that this law is marked as a European law. but it is also a fact that we do not have to pass all these European laws by emergency procedure because we do not enter the EU on Friday, the question is whether or not we will enter the 1st of July. So, first of all I'm interested in and I repeat that both companies and legal and legal persons call it whatever you want, interested in the final result of this bill, which is the reduction of this embarrassingly high price of gas, which went to Easter after Easter last year by 32%, and then went to VAT by 2%, and a slightly higher proportion not being summed up arithmetically than even a geometric progression, then we have an announcement of other repressions and tax presses. Then we now have an announcement of the suspension of the minus on which I speak on behalf of the citizens, so we have an announcement of the withdrawal of the salary by 3% as the only measure that will get Croatia out of all of this. And in the end, we come to a gathering in just a year compared to purchasing power per cubic or kilowatt hour of heat for almost 50%. I think it's a basic indicator. And this law does not contain all that is important, regardless of what these interests of Croatia are writing, etc. Consumer protection rather than him should go through one detail, so I would say even a scientific debate. As our price of gas rises, we will obviously have to not heat wood anymore, because the price of wood per metre increases, but we will have to mention a little about agriculture and organic production to that house. If someone doesn't know what a knock is, it's extremely caloric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32786	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32787	Thank you very much. No, I didn't answer first. I thought you registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32788	Keep going, don't get in the way, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32789	Excuse me. Well, pal, we're not going to join the EU on Friday, so we'll be in on Monday 1st of July. But otherwise in this House at the end and the Constitutional Court was manifested about it, everything became by emergency procedure even whether there is this E whether or not exists, although on several occasions not only do we as your club from different sides have seen that sometimes this E supplement as a European puts on everything and that there is nothing logical about it. What you said was there's space, there's time to go into a regular procedure to do two readings, so it stands, but it stands for each of those laws. However, what is called political will is lacking simply, this is not even a lack of political will. This is simply proof of arrogance and arrogance, we can do whatever we want and do whatever we want and you can't do anything to us. It's just that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32790	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32791	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I don't really understand. You're in your debate for liberalisation or for the monopoly. I know you're for some price reduction in general. Are you for the EU, are you for the competition, for the market, for the competition? From your discussion you are for everything and nothing, you understand nothing, you understand etc. I mean what's clear, both in general and in the electricity industry that you're touching and in the gas that at this point in time, the way that it's done so monopolistly has produced that prices had to rise. Why? Because the companies as they were so far in the former government worked so hard that the production level was lower than all EU members, both old and new. The share of expenditure in employees and total revenues was 3 times higher than in the European countries, the liquidity indicator also extremely poor, and the debt also greater than All this together makes us need to liberalise the market, that we have to act the way we started essentially when we voted and wanted an independent Croatian state in a way that is based on the market, on quality, on values, on the competition that makes it possible and the situations that not political decisions are determined to be priced, to protect themselves, but not to protect monopolies and therefore pay for it by citizens. In this way, this liberalisation will ensure that cheap and high-quality gas is available.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32792	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32793	Comrade, around the EU, we have declared ourselves so that this is a declassified issue to you is not clear. Okay. If there's any need, we'll explain it a lot more times. The fact is that we warn of something else, that there is another trend here, that all the full privatisations, all the sale of national wealth is justice by entering the EU and it's liberalized there, it's normal and it's good for us. We've already had a situation in history that man explained to us that we're actually doing well just because we're not aware of it. Now you're making us believe that we're good at selling everything out alive. Well, we're not well. I'm warning you precisely that today this base was yesterday the basis for the energy system for HEP, today's gas. Tomorrow it'll be for the woods and the water. That's what we're warning you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32794	New replica and respected representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32795	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague you've opened up a security and supply issue and you've gone a little bit from an ideological aspect of whether it can be left to the market or to the sea of the state. No matter where and where those countries most represent liberal capitalism, it is always a matter of gas supply, a strategic issue, a question for national security, and of course the state has to take care of it regardless of ideology. Of course it doesn't mean to clash with the market and favor monopolies. The market has a role to play, but the state is also there to protect national security. However, it seems to me that our biggest problem may not be this ideological debate, but rather that we are in these topics that are extremely serious sometimes unprofessionally entering and not transparent enough. For example, we're running some styles. When a delegation went to Qatar for that LNG there was gas supply and I'm just talking about how Qatar would supply gas. And most European states are already negotiating with the United States because there is a very important debate in the United States about how America is starting to export the gas in the incinerated gas, which would, of course, be much safer because it doesn't have to go through the Suez Canal, but only through Gibraltar. It would be cheaper and already taking up positions, and we're kind of just because of this intransparency in the debate all the way in fashion and we're only talking about Qatar. And I think that's exactly what we're missing from opening the debate, seeing which are all horizons and making that decision that's best for our national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32796	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32797	Thank you very much. That first part of yours I'd just like to supplement. It's not just gas, it's all energy. I absolutely agree with the fact that this country has to have some rather important role to play. As for this second part, where you mentioned that we're getting in quite no one in particular, but in general, we're going in a lot not to say "Modlar" in professional terms, in professional terms. I can agree with that. However, not that I can absolutely agree, but it is evident that there is no will to hear the waist. Let's just say I'm after that case you're talking about around LNG terminals I've had a meeting with a dozen people who are from the profession and who warn me it's the biggest hoax, that most of Europe is supplied with a gas pipeline from the Russians that's far cheaper than the cost of gas preparation for transporting, transporting itself, overloading, and you don't have a safe buyer. You to bring him here, to store him you must have a safe market otherwise it's a missed story. And on the other hand, the part that is not, which is not connected to the Russian pipeline, the gas pipeline pardon, that part is already having its LNG terminals even excess, even extra for existing needs. Now the question is, what were we doing? Is that what let's say there happened a moment I think it overlapped just with some other events that are related to some judgments and things like that. The people needed to rise in some way, even with the story of finally coming one investment that would really trigger everything else. Unfortunately, I think it was an empty story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32798	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32799	Dear fellow, they're full of mouths of freedom and more empty bills. And the biggest advocates of neoliberal capitalism have acknowledged that the full liberalisation spoken of in this Market Law is impossible. She's a failure. It's proven, the economists proved it. It is a failure for most and from time to time and for the minority a failure entirely. The profits seem to have clouded many aspects. Their ideology is money. For many, Croatia is just a mere means and their money is a worldview, and that is the only thing that is said about this neoliberal capitalism in Croatia and outside Croatia. If they knew anything or maybe they knew too much about the doctrine of shock, about Chicago school, if they knew something or knew again, they wouldn't say too much about the people in which they swore more expensive, up, under the exception of watching out for that hypocrisy of freedom, that word. And worst of all, when the Social Democrats carry out the strongest neoliberal policy. Translation liberalisation means actually creating huge profits as well as throwing a bug in our ear creating an alliance between the EU and the United States that will bring new liberalisation, which will allow large companies to conquer the market and our empty wallet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32800	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32801	Thank you very much, President. My dear colleague, I agree with everything you've said with what might be a small addition. I think our people are making it even more painful that after all that, after all the suffering they've had, everything that's happened to the war, they're now having a scam. They are experiencing a fraud that is still called social democracy, that is, one major part of the fraud, which is called social democracy. People aren't, they're not looking for any of these citizens, none of these 373 grand, so many yesterday I don't know how many of them there are today, even those who are on the minimal, and those who don't get paid, none of them are looking for a standard I don't know what we can see in any soap opera, none of them are asking for a party. They're just asking that they can live off their work, and unfortunately we're getting further and further away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32802	Interesting phenomenon in Croatian political practice that colleagues in the same club agree. That's not bad, that's good. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32803	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Novak, astounded by your claim that this division is going to raise the price of gas. I would, I could just say so where else? But when I think about it a little bit, and I'm going into some kind of analysis, you're right. Indeed it is possible. If we start only from that guaranteed supplier that will continue, if that former means he is not further capable. So who's to say someone's downgraded the price? Let's say, is that possible in that model like you said justifiable costs? And in that sense, here's, of course, with regrets, I'm even more sad when it comes to the area where I come from, the Podravina County, which almost 60% gives gas, so it puts domestic gas on the market. And then the question arises who will be able to pay for that gas? Those pensioners, of course, won't be able to. Here's yesterday I got an object where people are just done, I can't. The farmers are even less. Oh, they won't be able to buy the manure you were talking about, there's no way they'll be able to buy it, and the seed season is going. The incentives have not arrived, etc. So if by my own personal example, I live almost 300 meters from the central gas station. The torch burns every day, not to mention how many times I feel that kind of smell weird that's very uncomfortable and really smell. And you know how warm I am? It's mostly wood. And it's good now as long as I'm as strong as I can and can, in which year I won't be able to hold the axe anymore, and that brake that my colleague Vinkovic was talking about won't be because corn can't be sown. And what do you do under these circumstances? Lock it up and there's no heat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32804	Thank you, too. Otherwise, in Croatian, an unpleasant smell is called smell. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32805	Thank you very much. So you mentioned your area where gasification was mostly passed and successfully implemented so I can't mention Sisak, I can't not mention a settlement called Željezara that was completely gassed in a dark age, at the time of that frozen socialism when all the apartments were a complete residential settlement had gas and it was functional. We don't have gas today, that whole network isn't operational. It has been more than a year since the prime minister and first prime minister of the government were in the Old Year in Sisak and promised moving production. It's been over half a year since Sisak-Moslavina County announced 500, 600 and I don't know how many new jobs. He's not doing anything there today, but there's no such thing as that poor gas. And also, people have just run out of those legal options for severances, they're melting, but nobody's taking care of it anymore. Now that these elections are coming up, it's probably going to open up some kind of workshop that's going to be an opportunity to cut the tape because we're already used to it, some of us even let their own elevators into traffic, so it wouldn't surprise me if someone came in here right now to turn on the light and here it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32806	Thank you, too. And a new replica and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32807	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, coming to this House a year and a few days ago, I felt that I was coming into the middle to discuss and discuss the problems of the Croatian economy and society at the highest possible level, where the credibility of the spoken one is taken into account, but I must say that some discussions, and even this morning about this law, slowly hesitate in this perception of the Croatian National Assembly. In your presentation you mentioned Kutin, and in the right of it as an example which should show that this law in its provisions and basic guidelines of doubt, it seems to me that, unfortunately in this house, in the works of the representatives, it does not understand what the liberalisation of the market means, what it means to offer more bidders and how this mechanism affects the price offered. It is Kutina's example that shows the quality and novelty of this law and everything that the 3 EU energy packages bring to the energy field. Ten limes on total consumption per cubic, gas in the Kutina means life in Kutina. Twenty limes brings them to profit. And it is quite certain that liberalising the market and a better offer will bring down the price. The second thing, the guaranteed supply instrument also guarantees stability in supply and stability of production. So Kutina is just a positive example. And you finally said that you were against the sale of national wealth, so you mentioned forests, water, I would be interested in listening to your debate, your club once again in the second reading of the Agricultural Land Act, which is also a national wealth, which is a fundamental priority that the land owned by the Republic of Croatia is not sold, not to sell out family silver but to be given in a long-term lease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32808	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32809	Thank you very much, President. Well, colleague Baranovic, you've come with the attitude, what we, you know what you're doing, you have an explosive in mind and you're members of the ruling coalition and we're still young at Max's division. And that's what you came to that conclusion by listening to us and now you're asking a question about the Agricultural Land Act where you heard the position of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers. And now you're putting something in our mouth that's absolutely the opposite of that. Let's make a little deal with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32810	Thank you, too. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 10.41 expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes after this topic. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32811	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's either, or not be, being or not being a question is now, I'm not gonna have to trast, but something's obviously rotten, but not in Denmark, but in Croatia but in Croatia. [[Intruder: It be or not to be.]] Something about the Croatian expression for the unpleasant smell or smell, so natural gas or natural gas does not smell. That's why my colleague Milinkovic is adding gas mercaptan and that's the part with the sulphur base that feels and practically just that uncomfortable smell or smell saves you. But since you're not such an expert, I advise you to call someone who understands, otherwise you can check it with a simple soap or a drink where your gas leaks on dates. But that's something, something else entirely. But I would go along with this law on the history of gasification because this is not the first law to apply to the gas market. There, in the early 1990 ’ s, even during the Homeland War, the law then allowed private investment in this area and the construction of that infrastructure. Somewhere in the late 1990s, or in the second mid-90s, the legislator, among other things, and the Croatian Parliament specifically demanded that these types of private investment be abolished in the Republic of Croatia, and I must say that the HDSB club advocates liberalisation, so that someone would not suspect it, whether liberalisation must not mean selling national goods, could mean reducing the price of gas, but not in this way, Mr Baranovic, as this law was written. Therefore, the legislator then made a decision that the entire infrastructure must pass under units of self-government and therefore I am also saying in this part that jurisdiction is primarily local self-government, not only through concession fees but also by giving concessions and that this is not the jurisdiction of regional self-government and that no matter how it interprets on committees will never come to an agreement because the interest of a particular local self-government must not be of the interest of regional self-government. Regional self-government in Europe is something different than ours. They have far greater fiscal capacity and represent regions in the right sense. So, we had another newspaper of that law, when gas and gas pipelines as infrastructure were thrown out of the law that it was a municipal infrastructure, but it had become and practically had to, except in those parts where units of local self-government participated in financing and practically they built or took over certain dubiosis and loans created during that gasification, they became owners but eventually became the state that drowned it in certain companies. We have before us this law that really shouldn't have gone in a single reading, by emergency procedure is here, regardless of who you signed or didn't sign, you agreed with the EU. I always feel that the one who signs on behalf of the Croatian laws that are harmonised with the EU is happy and the one from the EU rubs his hands because, in any case, Croatia is in almost all laws in a more unfavourable position than the EU's founding member states so that I don't get it wrong. For example, what foreign consultants say about Croatian energy is that the discussion here in the Parliament on the Energy Strategy and its implementation has been very limited so far, that the implementation of energy policy is not monitored at all, there I can agree with my colleague Baranovic who expected a broad, scientific debate to be held here but be sure that it cannot be conducted within three or four hours in 15 minutes without the real opinion of the profession that is related to this law and that I do not read, this is a complete document that I really cannot read at this time and here has extremely valuable data. These are just hints and analyses of foreign consultants on Croatian energy and about quantify the right state of energy in the Republic of Croatia. And this was not ordered to be someone but above all this was a document that was supposed to be valid when Croatia joined the EU. It is important to say that we have both separation and everything but what storage, transportation but what it looks like now on the Croatian market. I talked to one of them, I would say, the leading and great consumer of industrial gas, which also has a drive in Đakov, Osijek-Baranja County, in the Republic of Croatia, where all those other pre-election promises based on plan 21 were also a promise to the Kukuriku coalition that they would maximumly protect the domestic industry whose survival depended on the price of natural gas. That didn't happen. So we had a quick increase in that price from 2.13 per cubic to 2.75 kuna per cubic. The former government may have done it in that part because this cycle should not be seen only in one year and 32% higher than in the total increase in that gas price in the last four years of 93%. And we don't have a monopoly in the Republic of Croatia anymore in energy, or more in distribution of natural gas. Perhaps we could have it that we are the domestic production of natural gas that satisfies and these are indicators, scientific indicators, not only statistically together with the reserves of this natural gas meets 70% of the needs of not only the Croatian economy but also the Croatian population. However, we sold that domestic gas, sold it at a significantly lower price than this 2.13 per cubic bit and imported it significantly more expensive. And that's obviously economic logic in the Croatian way. At the same time, prices in the gas economy are in Croatia, so per kilowatt hour in euros, so please choose to convert it into kuna because we are soon entering the EU, so here I am adapting to the EU and talking about these prices in Croatia 0.043. In Romania, which is an EU member of 0.023, in Slovenia 0,039 euros per kilowatt hour, in Austria 0.036, that I am not talking about large countries or EU founders such as Germany, such as Great Britain, France, etc. On this basis, therefore, certain indicators that were at the end and I would like to see that gas price table put before the government by the Minister of Economy at the time, unfortunately, regardless of its absence here in the Parliament, I have to mention this on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia made the Decision and practically collected natural gas both towards the economy and citizens. So at the same time, not going in now who sold it to Ina, and sold it to the left and these central ones. So since 2000. Ina has been sold out and we no longer have the control package to patch up in the state budget so they don't have to be angry with each other. Maybe we'll start, maybe it's the idea to start Ina, the new Ina that will replace the old one just make sure we don't have those opportunities because we've also signed certain things in pre-accession contracts so that David is the only one who beat Goliath, but I doubt that this Croatian David can win European or world Goliath. But the same mall has a lower price for 40% in Hungary for citizens and the economy. Who made that possible? Both the government and the HDZ government and the SDP government. Is it normal that the company we practically gave ourselves to, we took off to the skin here, yelling at us with a price 40% higher, and at the same time where the domicillins have a 40% lower price? Which will mean it directly to the citizens, directly to the economy when we are witnesses, we have passed a similar law also by emergency procedure and on electricity. Although our HEP did not wait for this law but went far before to European legal norms and legal gains, so it distributed distribution and consumption, so you finally got a 100% higher price of electricity. It will also be with gas, regardless of what it is about liberalisation on the possibility of getting cheaper gas per cubic or kilowatt. I will remind you, the gas was introduced in Djakov in 1995 by a private investor, at the end of the city or city company took over because of the law and that gas was a golden coke gold mine, unfortunately for those who were then running the city because they brought both the gas and the city's company into the dubiosis. But that natural gas price was 0.92 June. It has not been many years for us to have a price of over 4 kunas for households today, and more than 5.5 kuna for the economy. Is that normal? At the same time, we also have the collection of electricity in the same range. And then, in this law, it's probably nice to wish to hand in to citizens with guaranteed gas prices, and we have the right to special protection and a built form of social assistance would be achieved by endangered customers in the category of household. This status would have end-users to whom welfare authorities would determine the endangered social status or threat to life and health in the event of a natural gas supply restriction. Well, gentlemen, dear, even those who receive wages right now are digging up gas because they don't have to pay from 3 to 5 thousand kuna in the winter period, but they really do as I said, they don't heat up on wood or fossil fuels anymore, they heat up on bioenergy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I wish there were more farms there. And in Zagreb, I think they're heating up with such good laws and such good emotions, just not every day of Valentine's Day, but in 6 months, fire and heat should be lit. And with prices like this, they rarely heat up in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32812	Thank you very much. They're following the replicas. First respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here again through the presentations of the esteemed colleague Vinkovic, the theme of all topics is this morning's gas price and how to achieve a lower price. I don't know, I don't belong to economic experts, certainly here in this House are the reference experts of people who worked in the economy and on their faces I see that they don't really understand all the debates that were going through this assembly this morning. And as much as my college eyes on the basics of economics are giving me the surprise on the dilemma that you think without the competition more bidders will knock down the price of gas. I really don't see how. It's going to be interesting to hear here's colleague Shucker is one of the next speakers maybe he'll say something on the subject. I have some knowledge of the Empirical nature, namely, it's no secret, and I'm not ashamed of that, of course. The people who know me know what they did in 20 years I sold my catch at the fishing shops in Dalmatia and I know one rule. If you brought the fish for sale alone or if you brought the two of us, the three of us had so much spine to go out in the storm to get the fish then the price would be extremely high, was the offer weak and there was no competition. If she'd done the bonas and those guys who didn't have that much cake, they'd all be on fish, then there were 20 or 30 of them at the fish market, and the prices were low. The conclusion is very simple. If we liberalise the energy market, there must be a cheaping and a reduction in prices. These are the elemental laws of the economy. If one of the economists has a different opinion, I pray because I'm eager to know how to teach me and deny what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32814	The replica matches representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32815	You see, dear colleague, I said that I support liberalisation and more suppliers in Croatia. However, there is another side of the medal, that everything we have done in liberalisation so far, has struck Croatian citizens and citizens regardless of nationality, religion in the pocket because it has affected the increase in prices not to decrease. And now one pig in Slavonia is somewhere around 300 kuna, now a kilo of teeth on the fishing grounds is a little above that. But I don't want to talk about it because I know that fishing work is extremely difficult. In this case, I repeat the ultimate buyer citizen, company, economy, farmer is interested in the price of gas. He's also interested in the hot value of that gas. He doesn't care about formulas, he doesn't care about storage, transportation, consumption, etc. which will affect. And that's when we separate it all into all three parts, we unwind that famous 25% VAT, and then we come to a higher price and into liberalisation. And be aware that even if we cut these officers out of 3% and this salary, it's hard to pay this one, because I can't pay it right now because they have small salaries, that I'm not talking about those who don't work, that I'm not talking about the pensioners, that I'm not talking about the entire population except us, I guess, of our fellow MPs who have that kind of salary, so we can pay it, and when we're not, too, we're going to go home.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32816	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjurkovic will now present his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32817	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you mentioned a company she was selling if I wasn't wrong about the gas at 92 limes per cubic bit, and then she went to some kind of dubiosis they brought her in, etc. Then you stopped there, you didn't talk any further. Thus, such a way of working and doing where you go to quotes in the social category, i.e. buying voters and, on the other hand, bringing the state or whoever owns the company to cover it through other taxes, imposes. And then we came at this time where we now live, where we had to. Why? Because we are not running a false policy but a real policy and a policy of truth and state as we are, to bring these prices into what is called a profitable business. And with this liberalisation that you stand for, and on the other hand, you say that market liberalisation has brought us nothing but an increase in prices which is not true. Because look at some telecommunications other services that we have that prices have fallen. We, with the liberalisation of the market, are also getting quality, and this Law ensures security, security that in that market, if there is a defect that the customer can have regular supply as it can have regular supply and electricity. Therefore, a real economy, a liberalised market in a way that is controlled, that there are regulators and that ensures the customer and quality and the possibility of providing a favourable price. That's what this law is for. Not because we are just entering the EU, but because this law is a good law for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32818	Now again, we have an interesting situation to replicate Drazen Djurovic with his own club. You haven't picked up your line. We've been watching both of you. We were both watching. Drazen Djurovic, replica of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32819	Well, here's Mr. Vinkovic has one thing you haven't mentioned, and that's a matter of control of actually supplied gas to consumers. In view of the fact that there is some kind of heating value of the reference value according to which the actual price is calculated in relation to cubicity with these still fixed fees. However, one of the problems that is present is that the actual control of the heat supply is not actually carried out to consumers, but that control is more or less the one that delivers it and controls only at storage sites, in places of greater distribution. For example, water is controlled. When taking water samples are taken from the point of final delivery, but when gas is controlled, none of the distributors control, for example, this heating value of gas whether or not it is the kind of gas that it actually delivers to its consumer. And there are certainly mechanisms that should be installed in this law and in sublegal acts that some regulators or some independent bodies actually implement whether they are the equivalent of energy that is then multiplied, multiplied by cubicity and calculated, are indeed supplied to the consumer. And now it's not done, and I haven't seen in this law that, for example, there's been any change in that part of the law in relation to the practice so far. Because consumers often also complain that they actually have a feeling that this gas is weak and that this gas does not actually have the energy that the consumer shows them to deliver. And I'm a distributor to deliver to them and these distributors, or suppliers, still have no obligation to really where consumers are located and control or to do so by some independent body. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32820	What does Zoran Vinkovic think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32821	Well, dear fellow, you have the average energy value, you have the formula by which it is calculated, so you had, so I wouldn't say in the former system, but in the former calculation of that cubicity, that average energy value, or the caloric value of the gas, had to meet the conditions if it was below that mean. At that time, the price of that cubic was lower. Here if it was higher then the price was what it was. There's no protection here and there's no control. And you often have a gas that's unquality. However, since I do not always get to use this grace of the replica to you, it must also be clear that Croatia probably sold Croatian gas under the great pressure of these famous economists and that we are importing this same Croatian gas to Croatia at a much more expensive price. And that's a fact. And of all these measures, 32% of last year's gas collection of last year's Croatian citizens have a headache, and that hurts their heads. They're in pain with their wallet, but so are their stomachs because they don't have what's left of these economists who are now in government. And here's what it looks like when we separate the entire price. You have a purchase price of 2.15 I'm talking about households, you pay distribution 0.36, transportation 0.26, storage 0.05 – total price is 2.82, when you have the cost of supplying 0.06 kuna, the total selling price is 2.88, when you add VAT of 0.72% to 3.60. And that's it. And that's the data on the 20th of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32822	There's a new replica coming up. It will be the distinguished representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you can see how this debate about the gas market can also lead to a wide range of that unpleasant smell, the smell of whatever we call another figure. But let me know something about gas, about hydrocarbons, about sulfur and that unpleasant smell that kind of points to rotten eggs. I don't need the soap opera you were talking about on those dates, I don't have to just go outside and feel it right now. And the other thing, I can call a distributor who, of course, comes right up with that ultrasound machine and he says "bip-bip" right away, so he's got an account, of course. Of course, they'll come at a price like that. But of course the bigger problem is that our defense sensor system alarms us at high prices. There's a problem and in that sense you were talking about prices and in the environment. It's really frustrating that we're paying, and these neighbors over there are paying 40% less. An even bigger problem is that those installations that our citizens have worked hard and created that they can't, that they won't be able to use at all. They won't be able to use it because they're not financially able. Of course, I was talking about today and about that category of pensioners who can't at all, who are closing, of course farmers are also in an even harder situation. And in that sense, these installations and these investments seem to be missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32824	Now we will have the opportunity to hear the answer to this replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32825	You see, an esteemed colleague of mine reminds me of those telecommunications that citizens used to do the same thing as the gas infrastructure, giving 1800 marks to that Tinker Bell or whatever it was called, there was a state involved. So then we sold out. So they've been using us practically for 20 years, and now we've got this liberalisation, so we're getting on these 0.5 limes per text, conversation, and what I know. Well, I'd give it too! That's the liberalisation some are talking about here. The real problem, however, is what we are passing by emergency procedure. What do you think the Russian likes us so he'll give us 70 grand less gas or give us two kunas less? So Croatian citizens will love Putin. Or he will love that sheik who will never come to Croatia. Or he'll bring a ZIPO lighter with gas in it. So much has been hoped that there will be great investments, and now this Investment Environment Act will be all kinds of bangers across Croatia. It's not normal how it works! And then what comes to destroy Croatian production, definitely. Now there will be wood industry, agriculture has already gone, industry has virtually no but the biggest problem Croatia has in energy is that we 50% of the energy we import and we have enough energy to export it. Both natural gas and fossil fuels and even these alternative sources of energy. Unfortunately, we're importing it all, it's 50%. And who protects Croatian interests? Croatian government? Croatian citizens can better protect Croatian interests from the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32826	The last line is Honored Representative Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you were talking about the price of gas somewhere around four kunas, and I believe you circled it because the price is still slightly smaller. But what matters to the citizens and what this law is, it is important that it also guarantees a secure supply of gas. We remember the past winters when temperatures fell to -15 with fear we listened to the news whether Ukraine would turn our valves around and how we would heat up in this way? We also watched as the empty gas warehouse around, and in that case they were all in fear, especially families with small children, that they would run out of gas in the winter. We also remember this autumn how media-accompanied the increase in heating prices in 6 cities. However, other gas users have already received this increase a year ago in February. In February, the conversion of cubic matter into kilowatt hours was used and has already increased by about 5% at the price of gas. In early May, more than 30% increased the price of this gas, leading to high winter wars so that pensioners paid up to 50% of their average pensions. Some then move on to wood heating, however, each increase in gas also significantly increases the price of wood. In addition, any calculation at the end of the period angry consumers because practically new calculation and calculation of gas is very unreasonable and the formula of calculation looks like a flight to the moon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32828	Time. Thank you. The replica matches Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32829	Now, here's a distinguished colleague of mine, and you've already begun to make amends, and I thought you'd forgotten how the pensioners here from the assembly benches live in the Republic of Croatia since you practically defended this part of the law. No natural gas suspension threatened Croatia. Well, we also have for those even winter months, we have domestic gas production that meets 70% of Croatian needs and economies and households annually. So, no Ukraine, no Russia could do that to us that year. But we still had, so it's about suppliers and you need to understand it will still be Gazprom, and Russian, and Ukrainian gas and everyone else will be suppliers. And we'll play here about practically distributors, gas distributors within the Republic of Croatia, but as far as the price of gas, I forgot to add that fixed fee. So in this account there is no fixed fee introduced by the government, and the government introduced it for water. So, as far as I'm concerned, the SDP with three lines equals HDZ, that's a sign of identity. On the other hand, I want to point out what I may not have pointed out in this part, that we definitely require this law to go to another reading, because we believe that there is enough room for this law to be fixed and we aim to legalise and liberalise the Croatian market, not sell out, because we have virtually nothing to sell out anymore. But in an emergency procedure, one very important law cannot be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32830	Now we move on to individual debates, so I give my word to a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker, who first applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is the law before us, and perhaps we have little debate about what will happen in Croatia after the adoption of this law and what we have in Croatia today and whether we are really ready for what is proposed by this law, which is to separate production from the transport of gas, security of supply, secured suppliers and, at the end of the concession, and perhaps what is most important and what we have talked about here today is very little, and that is what is most tangling Croatian citizens. And if we're going out of that ecological sense, because look at me in Gorica, they're terribly intruding those heats on that mule and that horror that's graying. The logical thing would be for one who deals with gas distribution, if it were in his interest to agree with HEP-heating that these heats go to gas, to make it cheaper, is ultimately to allow those citizens to get gas in their apartment. And then we could talk about the market, then we could talk about someone's interest in coming to a market, but also let's not ignore some facts. One thing is that the government through its business, I'm talking about that former government, has finally managed to secure the infrastructure for the distribution and supply of gas. So far, we have received gas from the northern Adriatic through some kind of, say, semi-distribution system, through Slovenia that was limited and practically even in those crisis moments we couldn't get our gas from the northern Adriatic because we couldn't get it through the supply route in Slovenia to Croatia because it was covered with someone else's needs. And also this supply route across Hungary to the construction of the interconnection simply couldn't even think, let's say Petrochemy Kutina is talking to some supplier who's willing to offer her under this or those conditions a lower price. Also, when we talk about concessions, colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget that we have bad experience from some other infrastructure investments in the Republic of Croatia that are privatised. I often mention it, and it is telecommunications and their cable channels made by units of local self-government and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So in many units of local self-government, citizens have practically built freeway pipelines in the past 20, 30 years, and then by paying the connection they came into a position to tap into the gas. That's what I'm talking about in northern Croatia and now the question is if this unit of local self-government simply wants another distributor, what will be the relationship between an existing distributor who in a certain way owns its infrastructure, and how I financed that infrastructure by Croatian citizens. Let's take the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area around the City of Zagreb, practically everything is owned by the city's gas station and tomorrow some city of Zagreb, these towns around, these Zagreb Countys are disputing the competition, they want some other concessionaire who will offer some cheaper gas, how and how we will solve the ownership of the infrastructure network. Who owns it, whether that city and those citizens will say power, if they make such a decision is we call a competition and future concessionaire gets a network built by the citizens of that city. But we're looking for some price that's more acceptable, and that's what we're talking about when we talk about the market, and then you can be markety because you're offering someone something. But if you don't have something to offer someone, then you're the pawn in which two big players agree and basically you pay it all together. So this is what we have at this time in the Republic of Croatia, and the second is this gas pipeline that came to Dupolje, which given everything that is going on in Croatia today, and that is primarily an increase in gas prices of 37%, a reduction in wages, an army of unemployed and be sure to now call a tender for some distributor that you will find it very difficult for the reasons that many people, the question is going to decide on that investment. Whether they are ready to invest, 2, 3 or 4 thousand euros for that equipment that should be there for gas heating and ultimately, if this is already happening to colleagues and colleagues, so if we know that we will have several tens of thousands of connections, if that is why we built that pipeline, it was not more logical for the Croatian economy to use it and to be a partner to someone in the production of some boilers, or something that will be installed tomorrow in the apartments of Croatian citizens or in the heat of our cities and municipalities. So these are the things we need to discuss. Look, we're going to have this law, no matter what we disagree with it, but it's simply something that's going to force the EU tomorrow to bring it to us and we need to have it as we have it and the same way as we were limited to that and that moment, the lowest price of gas sales to the Republic of Slovenia must be equal to the price of that page in Slovakia. So when we talk about the gas market, colleagues and colleagues here we can also say one anarchism of Croatia, while we had a state monopoly what in Ina what it cost, then we had the lowest gas perhaps in Europe. And today we have a market, we have one of the most expensive gases. So much so that the market doesn't necessarily mean that you'll get something cheapest, but I repeat we have a certain legacy in the infrastructure that no one can ignore because look at practically complete northwestern Croatia and one large part of Slavonia is gasified at this point. And what we forget all the time, every distributor that comes into an area, it's in his best interest, he has contracts with someone who produces gas or who supplies gas. He is in the interest of selling as much gas as possible, selling as much of that gas as possible to be competitive in the purchase of that gas and ultimately to offer a lower price that he can win the competition for a particular area, and so that he can earn in all of it. Because we can't think that someone came because they're gonna be Mother Teresa towards us, so they're gonna give us this or that price of gas. So that's something we should get ourselves. Unfortunately, however, this law does not provide an answer to these questions. And no regulation will offer an answer to this question. 'Cause look at your colleagues and your colleagues isn't comfortable, we can justify ourselves one way or another. But there's something called social sensitivity. It is not pleasant for the citizens of my Velika Gorica, for the citizens of the city of Zagreb to have now received gas prices in the first month, second month I am talking about family houses of a thousand kuna, and that residents living in apartments in collective housing buildings have received bills for heating of several hundred kunas. It's easy to say the market, it's the market, but at this point we have to think about this social aspect, we have to think that 370,000 people have that on the market and the question of how many years to come that figure will be and we also have a certain legacy that we simply can't ignore. Do we, given the price of energy in the Republic of Croatia at these moments, offer our citizens some alternative to the provisions of this law? No, we're not offering, and it's our responsibility, like the Parliament, of fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues. We can stand up for this or that. But in the end, I think we're all here because Croatian citizens get that kilowatt or cubic gas no matter how we measure it as cheap as possible. We'll all raise our hands for that, but we have to create a legal prerequisite for that to happen. If we have some kind of transition period since 2014. Let's make the most of it then. But I repeat the weak population of Croatia will lead to the fact that unfortunately many citizens of Croatia will not be in an equal position because there is only ten or 15 km you have only a few hundred connections you will simply not find a distributor for the area. It's going to stick to an area that's more populated, but it's going to charge for those 10km less populated. We need to be aware of that, and it doesn't stand in this law. Maybe you shouldn't stand in this law. But we need to stand in our thinking that we need to bring in some other legal act to deal with it. Protecting social groups is the easiest thing to say, we'll limit the minus to jury accounts, limit it but not citizens in that minus went out of luxury but out of necessity. There may be some percentage of those who simply don't care about themselves or their family, so they ended up here as they ended up, but most of them are those who are all among other things and this increased gas bill of 37% or 37% heat or increased electricity of 20%. And colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget no matter how much political fighting we had in one way or another, that we increased VAT rates from 23 to 25 and increased the zero rate of over 3.5 billion kuna to Croatian citizens out of our pockets. We have reduced their purchasing power by so much, and also with this wage reduction foreseen for civil servants and tenants, for some new hundreds of millions of kunas, we have reduced the ability of Croatian citizens to pay their bills and that is something that we should think about when we are discussing this law because what is inside of this law can be read in any law by EU members, it is simply the same. Many, however, have their specifics where they took these matters into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32832	Now they're following the replicas. Dear Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32833	Dear fellow Shuker, you mentioned that a growing number of citizens are asking whether they are worth it at all then and when they have a network brought to the house to join there. And it is true that the good part of Slavonia is also gassed. But today is unfortunately the reality that not only those who need to join are thinking about whether to do it. Rather, those who have a connection, who are connected to the gas, are seriously thinking, and many have already made a return in the old ways and sources of heating. First of all, wood and fire. And with this policy, not only do those who don't have gas for now as a source of heating but also all those who already have it are simply not a small number of people who move on to it is no longer an alternative but what their finances are simply enabling them to do. We have a situation that Croatian citizens are unfortunately drawn to moving from those old forms of heating to the one that is more elegant, etc., and now that they're drawn to it, I'm getting skins with these prices. Do not interfere with the mind of ruling that the Bulgarian government has fallen because of the increase in electricity of 13% and you are playing with the patience of Croatian citizens, the collection of only 37% gas we are a patient people but be assured if the Bulgarians have risen because of this, then I am not sure when and the patience of Croatian citizens will endure that we do not have God on the streets because we cannot survive. Take care that this is a very, very serious matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32834	Thank you. The replica matches the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Buric, when something is immeasurable, then in principle when you come to the fact that you have to use it, then you have to pay for it. It's a case of gas. When you threw out that gas oven or which was an oil oven or a wood that was as inert for gas because it was too much energy loss you invested 7.8 thousand marks, sometimes when it was stamps, today it's 4,5 thousand euros depending on which horn it might be more, that old furnace you used for wood you eliminated and you basically brought into a situation if you run out of gas or electricity you'll freeze because you simply don't have alternatives. And also nobody talks to these distributors that they might have to talk to manufacturers of these equipment that if they sell a thousand or two thousand of these furnaces in one distribution area so that the manufacturer in his interest will have a very narrow circle that they will have a... service network to give some popular price or is it logical that poor heat loss of heat in HEP Heat will pay the citizens of Velika Gorica. It's not good, and it's unfortunately something that can't be allowed and it's under that cover of the market that's being introduced unfortunately and serviced to us because when you don't have alternatives, then the question is how effective is the market. When you have an alternative when you can choose then the market is efficient and then it is best for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32836	And my colleague Davor Ivo Stier will do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's fellow Shuker rightly mentioned these negative effects of the gathering but not only in Velika Gorica, here in Samobor unfortunately more than 38.5%. But you warned that it's one negative effect that tells us that we can't just leave everything to the market. I would say what is missing in all of this is a strategic reflection on how to continue to develop this energy policy and apply it. We just joined for this reason, for example, in 2010. The multi-city group of Central European countries and at a political and strategic level tried to include Croatia in order to be on the energy corridor from Baltic to the Adriatic. You yourself mentioned earlier that in late 2010, this interconnection was made gas with the Hungarian system, and that is exactly what gives us the opportunity to develop further, not because it is perhaps the marketable and most profitable gas that will come to ELG terminals, but for some strategic reasons, the Middle European country will be ready to buy it and that is exactly the potential to solve some of our problems and even about the export of energy that Croatia can, and the infrastructure is made so that we can talk about it today and we must continue to discuss it in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32838	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Stier market is a great thing if it's regulated. It's just like in sports some kind of game, you know, when you play clearly by the rules, and when judges fuck like they don't pull for anybody, then it's beautiful and wonderful. But as soon as they start grumbling on the rules as soon as the judges start pulling on one or the other, you get chaos and eventually it doesn't usually end with a fight. So is the market if you do not have a clear set of rules of play not end with a fight but ends with a strong blow to the citizens' pocket and to the standard of Croatian citizens. Is this an increase of 37% that's for a house floor of about two hundred squares larger account in January for 800 kuna. And when you add to that a larger account than 150 kuna or 200 kuna for electricity, that's a thousand kuna more. And if one family makes 8 or 9 thousand kunas on average per month, it's practically 15% of its monthly earnings. And then we can't say it's the market because look at the price of oil derivatives as much as the maximum amount that prices can go up they go up. But very rarely they use the opportunity to bring prices down for that maximum amount. So let's not look at this law as St. A letter. That's the law we're harmonizing with EU directives, that's okay. But according to various sublaws, we must primarily protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by perceiving what we have at the moment. and what unfortunately nobody mentioned today in their debate, which will benefit the Croatian economy from all this together. Look, we're through these 40% of the gas imported by some other distributors will come, if they offer anything to the Croatian economy. So look at this moment one foreign company is extremely interested in coming to the Croatian market. So if you're interested in coming to the Croatian market to see what they offer on the Croatian market to come and possibly... someone else. So that's what we need to decide and what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32840	Thank you. Now he will present his replica with a respected representative, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32841	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's fellow Shuker you said we expected to have with suspicion you said, tens of thousands of new connections to the gas. Of course I doubt that we're going to have in mind everything that's been said here because here in my town where the gas infrastructure has been developed in the last year and a half days, I don't remember there being one foot of the development of a new network. And if we were to count the connections as many new ones as possible, they were almost gone, possibly in a slow motion. So it's not to expect in this situation that it will be. I agree with you that the accounts have collected so much that you simply are no longer able to pay for it today than to look for alternative energy sources because the accounts that were last year 1700 kunas this year are 2800 kunas in rough and people can't stand it. It's about houses. The apartments picked up the same thing. You also said one part of your debate about infrastructure heritage. That's not settled. The day today is not resolved in Croatia in most cities, the local self-government unit is not likely to be solved in Slavonia, it is not solved in other parts of Croatia, it is not resolved in my Križevci where we do not know who owns the network in principle today. And now there's a monopoly on that net. It'll mean some other customers or gas suppliers and then there'll be a conflict. And then you question the security of gas supply, and the state has to deal with it, it's a good thing the law wants to lay things down to solve security supplies. But the security supply, in order for it to be safe, needs to be solved by the predications that will then be defined, guaranteed and must be stopped at the end of the distributors and in other ways as you said it wasn't always the free market guarantee that it would be Cheaper. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] It's got to stop at the end of those who charge what they don't have to charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32842	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32843	That fellow Hrg, since we are from a region where gasification is very high and you and I, you can talk about the Križevci, I can talk about Gorica and the complete infrastructure both in the Križevci and in Gorica have made citizens. So, first through self-dependencies, and then through the payment of the connection is practically made that infrastructure. And now the question is, if we don't want to say it's the City Gasman at all, if we break up the competition, then as citizens, as a city, we can say to whoever distributes the gas tomorrow we give that infrastructure but we oblige him to develop that infrastructure in the next few years and to some surrounding places because you can no longer charge the connection under the new law, but that's why in the price of gas cost you charge that kind of percentage for the development of the gas network. So that's what we have. So where the gas is used. We have a second area as practically from Karlovac to Dugopol where great money has been invested, created a prerequisite for people to use gas in both Lika and Dalmatinska Zagora and Dalmatia. However, the question arises whether at this point they are willing to invest three, four, five thousand euros to install it into their house by watching this 37% pick-up, and then some of them were saying by entering some of the companies, but our citizens would say on willow music and unfortunately nothing happened. Winter passes in a month. Which is worth it to someone if the gas picks him up in the fourth or fifth months, it's no use. Then the next year at 11 months, the price goes up again, and that's that market accident. That's the danger of the market if you don't keep it under control. Everything's beautiful and beautiful while it's good. However, once things are done... If you do not have clear rules, the game will again be paid by Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32844	The last replica and vice president of the House, the esteemed Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32845	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Schooker. So you're actually partially answering those questions that I wanted to ask, and they're just about your mention of the market. In fact, the market everyone swears to is good when it's regulated. Unfortunately, in many things, although everyone swears to the market, the market is not regulated and we perceive an unorthodox market in the way it was perceived in the United States in the second half of the 19th century. Whoever grabs more, who manages to grab it so I say in the citizens' pocket is more successful, and the citizens are actually in that market and they have no use for that market. Citizens would benefit from the market if they could choose between several bidders, so choose the one most favourable and then of course buy from the one most favourable. But that is not the case especially when it comes to energy, especially when it comes to gas. Citizens have nothing to choose from. They get their bill. Now 37% of the bill is bigger for that gas and they have to pay it or they can freeze, not cook etc. Therefore, market stories are a fairy tale if no one regulates it, stimulates it, etc. Which, unfortunately, is not the case with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32846	Now the debate will include a respected representative, you can't when you haven't answered. We saw all three of us watching. We'll be short for your answer because you haven't answered. I'm sorry. The debate will now include the esteemed representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32847	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I will support this bill, because it is a further step in taking over the legal property of the EU, or the third European energy package. It should be noted that gas is an extremely important energy for Croatia and that in the years to come, with the parallel use of renewable energy sources, it will be even more important. And because of the importance of reducing emissions by 2020, we already know that goal of 20, 20, 20. And for this reason, Croatia must ensure the safe supply of this energy, not only through the construction of additional gas pipeline capacity towards the east, i.e. Russia and Ukraine, but also seriously consider the realisation of LNG terminals, i.e. for ingested natural gas. And of course, the LNG terminal has a very high importance for Croatia and because of the realisation of the investment of almost a billion euros, but also because the realisation of the LNG terminal opens up an alternative gas supply route for Croatia and we know, we have experience from a few years ago from 2009 when the gas crisis was Russia – Ukraine, political relations, that all EU countries have thus found themselves in a rather sensitive position, i.e. there was the possibility that Croatia at a time when gas consumption was the largest in the winter months remained without this extremely important energy. The LNG terminal implies that this gas would be supplied from other parts of the world, meaning not from the Russian market but probably from Arab countries or Qatar, which has close relations with both the US economy and of course it brings one great security to Croatia in case there is some political oscillation and crisis in the East. In addition to the increased capacity for gas storage, Croatia, in a strategic sense, should also think about building one or two gas thermal power plants in Dalmatia, because here he is, and his colleague Schuker was saying something about it. We now have a situation to have a pipeline in Dalmatia, but because of the economic crisis, it is very difficult to realise projects to build distribution networks, and the question is that users of these private households will be willing to invest in their own connections, i.e. to invest in their own gas infrastructure in their households. That is why I think it is of crucial interest for Croatia to build, as I said one or two gas thermoelectrics on the turn of the gas pipeline towards Dalmatia, because it could also be considered with the usability of the investment itself, which was not small because if you do not have a large end-user on that pipeline, then you can hardly count on a situation of this kind of crisis that is long-term and will pay off. So we need a big consumer there. I believe that the state should also consider the construction of a gas thermal power plant near Zagreb or the end of Zagreb because there would be a very high efficiency of heat, i.e. ETA would raise such a thermal power plant because of the possibility of using heat for heating of households in Zagreb. And of course, in the region of Dalmatia, excess heat could be used in agriculture to heat greenhouses and to have agricultural production throughout the year, which would naturally and positively affect the overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased that we are discussing this law today because the main point and purpose of the third European energy package that I see in the separation of production from transmission and distribution in the gas business in the end and in a formal sense is realized through this law. It is certain that the liberalisation of the electricity market in the gas business will go a little easier than in the electricity market, and we should also bear in mind the fact that PLINACRO is already ownershiply separated from the vertically integrated company and by the property separation model. And in this I see the key difference between this law and the Electricity Market Act because this law in Article 14 says that it is going on a ownership separation model, probably because PLINACRO is already in this way and separated while Article 15 allows it to mean applying the other two models, i.e. ISO or ITO to all potential future transport system operators. As I mentioned during the debate on the Committee on Economy, I regret that there is no mention of compressed natural gas anywhere in this law, or CNG, given the fact that CNG is in the upward trend in many developed countries of the world, and I think it is very appropriate in terms of the realization of closed distribution systems that are also mentioned in this law but in an article dealing with these closed distribution systems, which is Article 79. Different types of gas are mentioned, meaning mixed oil gas, evaporated oil gas, urban gas, biogas, biomass gas but no CNG, and I think CNG would be very suitable for the realization of such closed distribution systems. Because CNG systems do not depend on gas pipelines themselves and can be realised in units of local self-government that are somehow away from the gas pipelines of these freeways. And let's say, in other developed CNG countries, a lot is used on islands where this energy can be supplied to ships, and this is also a great opportunity for the domestic industry, especially for the shipbuilding industry, which could also be engaged in the construction of ships for CNG and the development of generally this technology. Not only in units of local self-government located at sea, i.e. as islands, but also in some way isolated units of local self-government on land, i.e. on the continent, these projects can also be implemented quite successfully, where you do not have a very large investment in gas pipeline infrastructure, because today this energy can also be successfully delivered to the road network, i.e. with the help of specialised trucks with these CNG tanks. Here it is, and at the very end of the presentation, I would also refer to something that was a little bit of such a pain in my eyes, and it is about the categories of vulnerable household customers where this introduction of the law says that, that the bodies responsible for social care will determine the endangered social status or the danger of life and health. Namely, this provision where social status would be determined on the basis of health is a little questionable to me in view of the fact that someone can be sick and have a lot of disability or something like that, but his material situation can be extremely favourable and I do not know on the basis of which criteria it will be determined that a person is determined by his health status as a threatened customer. And yet I didn't see it in the very text of the law, but that's the law on the electricity market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32848	Thank you. We move on to replicas, first respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Holly, I am personally very pleased that you have shown yourself so kindly about this energy law, about the Gas Act, and I am also agreeing with you about the LNG terminal. No matter what the LNG terminal is, there are certain anthropological impacts that will occur when it is realized, if realised. He's where and where a more favourable version of what was planned in that space a few years ago. I agree with you when it comes to building gas thermals, because I believe that energy stability is a condition that is not discussed in the future of Croatia. In any case, I'm going to conclude that your positive indication of LNG terminal is one of the fundamental assumptions that this project has peace. Since we know what your personal impact is on the network of those who, slowly I and likablely call the grizzly sometimes, who are very often able to be a stone in shoes with positive projects in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32850	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32851	Dear colleague, I don't know why you're giving me such a big influence. I personally don't think I have any major influence on the NGO's green scene. I have spoken from my own position, meaning my personal position on this, and that I believe that the LNG project is very much needed by the RH, the way he will realize it will just be seen, and it is not necessary for him to be the Shore LNG. There are also variations with the help of floating ships to realize that something would raise the price of the energy itself, but investment would be much simpler and cheaper. But I'm saying, today there are a lot of developed environmental technologies related to LNG technology. But what I think is crucial about us and our strategic approach to LNG is this: that when we negotiate with potential investors, and in a particular case it is about the cataracts, we first need to know what we want and how we want to do it because no one will take us seriously unless we come to such meetings fully prepared and with the precisely elaborate scenarios of the realization of such a project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32852	He also stands up to the presentation of the replica, a respected representative, Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And, fellow Members, here I am, in replicas, quite instigated, constantly mentioning this famous natural gas project. We witnessed the deafening noise coming from, here are some former members of the government, including the present, and the Prime Minister himself during a famous visit to Katara where we expected so as to result from this noise, except that some sheik from Qatar had spent a ton of dollars and started to build this famous terminal. Of course, nothing happened and it's not going to happen. In fact, a one-billion-euro terminal or a dollar would mean 10 billion approximately cubics of gas. No one in the world will invest 10 billion cc's of gas for the Croatian market, we spend about 3 billion and it would be hard to expect that and now the domestic gas that is becoming less and less, and all the one that is now being supplied to the market from other sources will be replaced with some such, in fact, not knowing what would be its price. It also does not know, if it is not for the Croatian market, for which it is the market, who would import, pay, buy from Qatar or any other market, and to whom it would be sold. Today, there are no more problems in Europe, sources and suppliers as far as natural gas is concerned. And it's a good thing you mentioned and I would remind you of a solution that PLINACRO started working, a study was done just for the possibility of a different, cheaper, more efficient and faster way of solving, which is a ship that only works for up to 2 billion cubic meters. That's why the gas pipeline was built from Omis to Kukljanov, which is why only $50 million would cost that installation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32854	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32855	I'm sorry to say that, which would allow, therefore, the transport of that ship and the connection of such a ship to our pipeline. Those dreams are about a billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32856	A fellow replica drinker is limited to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32857	Here, thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32858	The answer to the line, dear Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32859	Dear colleague Popioč, well you're right, I am and in the previous replica referred to it, of course it's important that we know what we want, which is our strategic interest, which is why we want to learn into some investment because the realisation of the investment itself means absolutely nothing. And that is why I think that when we go into negotiations with the Qatarians or with any other potential investor in this regard, we must have very well-developed plans about what we really want and how we want to realise the project. You when you were Minister of Economy and at a time when it was this particular gas crisis. I do not remember exactly what point of the agenda I was talking about the possibility of realising the project for the supply of LNG as embedded natural gas in Croatia with the help of this other technology or these vessels of floaters. Well, as I recall back then, the government wasn't too prone to such technologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32860	It will now be replicated by representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32861	Dear colleagues, I don't think you have such a big influence on certain social groups, but in any case with most of what you've said as your own opinion, I agree. And even about the construction of the gas thermal power plant, etc., but it's rightly being put here, we can have our own opinion here, it's nice to have our own opinion. But I argue that the Croatian Government has nothing to do with the energy strategy. In addition, they showed some of the expertise that was introduced, so here at some point we may have had a big investment in Istria by waking up Cain, so we had a hydrocentral in Oblo, so these investments should have started Croatia. And here's to God in a year and a half, except that you've been replaced from that place by the Minister of Environmental Protection, nothing happened. Croatia still has no investment, no investment in the energy sector. We continue with this price increase, and there I would very much like to bring a bit of a struggle to the opinion of HNS and SDP and to argue that that increase in electricity and gas prices was, above all, the resolution of dubiosis in Croatia's electricity industry. And that perhaps this law on the liberalisation of the market in the Republic of Croatia shows that HEP is cancer, early Croatian economy and also these governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32862	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32863	Well, I definitely think that at this point in time for Croatia, the gas thermoelectrics are much better because we entered the emissions trading system this year and due to the expected increase in the prices of CO2 equivalents on the market, there will be an increasing level of the price of the electricity produced from gas power plants and thermal power plants on coal. If we take into account that gas thermal power plants are in an ecological sense much more acceptable than carbon thermoelectrics, I think that is one good reason to consider which direction the energy image of Croatia will develop. However, I am not a priori against coal thermal power plants because I believe that Croatia needs diversification of energy sources but the question is what capacity, with which technologies we will realise such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32864	And the last replica. Dear Representative Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32865	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleague Holly. I'd like to refer to two aspects of your exposure. One is alternative gas fuels, and the other are alternative supply rights. Our mouths are filled with gas when we speak from an ecological aspect and I absolutely support it. It is today the most acceptable fossil fuel in terms of least environmental pollution. But we also have a completely different price policy towards the type of gas fuel. If you remember the campaign well, it was in Croatia where a gas network cannot be made and where it is not worth it to do small blends or to propane, butane or vaporised oil gas or to do those little home stories with those tanks. And when they did, a large part of the Croats then that gas went to heaven at a price because he is an oil derivative and it became a market category of classical without the influence of the state, without any stimulation to actually use environmentally acceptable fuel. I think so much about the hypocrisy of policy in practice in terms of declaration policy towards environmental protection. I don't mean that to you fellow Holly, at least you're credible here. That's why you're probably where I am right now. As far as the alternative direction of the LNG project is concerned. It's got a lot of demagogy. There are two projects. One project is an alternative supply direction for Croatia to have gas in cases of a crisis situation. This ship's story connected directly to the pipeline and it should be done by the Croatian state, PLINACRO and in this direction something is done. And a big project with tanks of that billion words. It will never be made by Croatia because there is no consumption. He'll be made by a stranger like he wanted to, and never by a gas salesman. No one who won't do it, it's made by a buyer, or a merchant. So we must have such work and a large project that surpasses Croatia several times. We should have economic, energy and environmental benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32866	Comrade Komadin, time's up. The answer to the line, dear Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32867	A well-respected colleague, talking about ingested oil gas, appeared not for environmental reasons but for economic reasons, as the biofuel story eventually appeared. That's why I don't have the same view of this problem as you do. In contrast to the widespread belief that it is an environmentally acceptable energy and is not that environmentally acceptable energy and has emissions similar to petrol fuels, I am not too prone to use more ingested oil gas in this sense. However, the fact is that the state has implemented a bit of an unusual policy and that citizens have been motivated by the realization of such projects not only in terms of building use and household use but also in terms of the use of this energy in personal cars so that, after a certain time, this energy would be quite expensive and it is not, of course, the best but I think it says that there is a lot of wandering in the field of energy policy and that we do not have a very strategic approach through all these years towards energy policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32868	We will now hear a five-minute debate on behalf of the HNS club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister with his associates. The HNS Club will, of course, support this law. starting with the fact that it is a European law as we call it and the fact that time is a resource and that there is a responsibility that Croatia's policy has taken over both from the citizens of this country and from their referendum on political will and against our future partners, EU member states. This law is a law created as a necessary alignment with the so-called so-called law. With the 3rd energy package, one extent of legal matter, the norms that the EU has prescribed in the sequence of their facts and knowledge that it is best to regulate, most effectively, the most quality energy market. Starting from the fact that energy stability and quality are indisputable to the provision of energy supplies, energy prices, basic conditions and assumptions for the development of any economy and thus Croatian, all EU member states are not in doubt that those we consider to be more successful, and for this reason we approach very well thought out when they wrote the 3rd energy package and that this is the moment for us to think of the most acceptable material. There are smart ones who learn, and there are resourceful ones who weren't in a position to learn, but they're lucid enough to overwrite and get a 4 bar, that's the position we're in right now. And let's not do too much philosophy out of it. There are fundamental economic principles, the principles of life, the experience that say that these changes which, compared to the 2nd energy package, provide a 3rd energy package guarantee a better quality supply, guarantee cheaper gas and energy, guarantee the social price for social categories and is not at all questionable for those who want to know the fact that this bill and the 3rd energy package is what is most acceptable to us right now. To talk about something that no one has accepted with enthusiasm in Croatian politics and in Croatian society, which is the collection of energy that has come about that very difficult burden for Croatian citizens is not possible without seeing the real reasons why this collection happened. To discuss this law, not to admit the fact that the introduction of competition on the market guarantees a lower price for both these citizens and Petrokemia Kutin and other important consumers in the public and economic sectors, it is gentlemen ignoring the truth, and ignoring the truth is dangerous. So I ask you to see the truth that you don't ignore from the tree that there is a forest. Petrochemy Kutina 20 lipa in price or 15 lipa in the price of cubic metre of gas. The Kutina Petrochemy is shared by losers to a firm that is doing solid business. It's not just hundreds of workers in Kutina who depend on Petrochemy. The workers also depend on the cargo traffic in HZ that carry between 500 and 750 thousand tonnes of cargo through the business of Petrochemy Kutina. The workers and Sibenik ports that overload and export and import for Petrokemia Kutin depend. A lot depends on it. Depending on the end and price, the price of gas depends on the quality of life of Croatian citizens. We cannot achieve it if we ignore the facts and ignore the positive legal practice of those who proved to be more successful than we are. For this reason, as a party that does not ignore the truth, as a party that is aware that we are an energy-dependent country, the HNS will without reservation support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32870	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32871	You see, my dear colleague, I do not necessarily support anyone, it is unreservedly not politically wise because very quickly this one, as we have unreservedly supported a series of laws here these years and a half days have come changes and decisions, and then even during the course of the debate, the amendments to the government come. I was glad to hear the truth here in the Croatian Parliament today, that we are here today. And look, you now have an emergency law, and then, according to a valid way of not wanting to argue within the coalition, so that doesn't suggest SDP, or it doesn't suggest HNS, we have one amendment that says that within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, it is replaced by words no later than 1 July 2013. The explanation doesn't matter. What's going to happen on Friday, we're going to insist on Friday's vote? So is this Petrochemy going to be ruined by 1.7 if this amendment is adopted? And whether this Petrochemy over the years and three months or four months has perhaps a lower price of gas or if we've raised to survive someone we've arrested there because he's the only expert in it, we've raised that price of gas 37%. I'm just waiting that Friday to see if this amendment will be adopted. And the HDSSB is seeking a second reading of this law for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for the sake of the economy, not for the sake of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32872	The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. While we are colleagues of Vinkovic in politics that I am in my career at times when I was being hunted by a storm of 120km/h it works as you wish the Croatian Parliament and politics to function at these critical moments for the Croatian state and also for citizens whose fate you so soulfully care and cry very likely would not be sitting here today in this House but would only be a memory of my family and friends. But all the good news is that I've been acting unreservedly and making decisions at a moment that appreciates the criticism of the situation, the seriousness of the situation, and the responsibility of those who put me on a piece of bridge. I've made decisions unreservedly, and it's a good thing I did it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32874	Followed by the replica of the esteemed Golden Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32875	Dear colleague Baranovic, I must admit that it is very correct of you and nice and partyly correct to defend and explain and stand behind the policy of the determined economy minister. That's fine, but there's one but. In that part of your discussion, I'd disagree, and I don't think that's gonna happen when we have the South Stream. No gas in Croatia will burn. It's just that we're going to have more security of supply, that we're going to have a more liberal market and actually competition of suppliers. But I doubt if someone who has gas will sell it cheaper than they sell it now. I'm saying that gas is market activity, it's not communal and it's stopped being communal, and that the social component will only be in terms of cities and municipalities as long as the social programme is introduced for those who cannot pay the price of that gas market as well as some other activities that are being subsidized.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32876	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32877	Dear colleague Komadin, I believe that the possibility of a social price, i.e. prices for socially endangered categories, is, in any case, a step forward. She's embedded in this law. As for your dilemmas and concerns about the price of gas, I think that the basic provisions of this law will be worth a long, long time in the future and that in that future, assumptions will be made for as high as possible and as successful as they can get gas to this market of various suppliers. In my thinking, I am following some of the general principles of economics, and it might be good if you have some knowledge of what the arguments against these principles are and who would really support your doubts that you share this with us as a responsible politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32878	Last replica and esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32879	Thank you, dear colleague. When you talk about what's guaranteed and what's true. It is true and it is only guaranteed that such a policy as is currently being led from the Ban Courts of Croatia is guaranteeing poverty, performance and clearly increasing unemployment. You've frozen Croatian citizens at -25 with your VAT, and you've cut them off with this 37 percent gas collection, not to mention collecting everything else that's collected. And when you have no arguments then you use assumptions and it is good to hear here in the Croatian Parliament and the existence of an increasing number, but not just from the lines of opposition, but from your ranks still coalition partners of the SDP. You see, they don't believe in what you're saying themselves, and he's right, my colleague Komadina won't get gas-saltin', and no one normal can sell gas at any price is going to lower that price just because someone wants to. You have no arguments to defend such a proposal, and then you serve in accordance with that saying by our colleague Ingrid and the only thing Croatian citizens need to believe is what people have to trust us, so until you shake from the government you won't even be worth any arguments but this saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32880	Now we will hear the answer to this replica, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32881	Dear fellow Buric, in this House, it seems that those who prophesy the future are coming into fashion. Maybe it wouldn't be worse if we were joined by psychic Milan. What I was following when I was talking about this law is some things that are learned in colleges and that are known in life. The reason for the price hike was very much spoken in this House, and I will remind you once again that no one can sell you a product or a service below its real price, that such business is introducing Croatia into a situation of total instability and that no one is normal, even one who intends to stay in power, and not shake as you said will not make such moves if they are not necessary. And that truth you know very well only what, of course, as an opposition parliamentary representative, you feel that you must be against everything that is not absolutely acceptable and is not responsible politically for the citizens of this country and its existence. As far as your forecasts are concerned, when you're in fashion this morning, you're right, even with the ruling majority's advocates, that we're going to last, we'll last, don't worry, and when we land, we'll land with a parachute unlike some who've dealt with such things in their lives that they've landed at the wrong place. Therefore, do not worry about us or our landing. We're good pilots, take care of those who were bad pilots in their day and behind which there was no great track behind the engine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32882	We will now hear the final debate for 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB and Zoran Vinkovic clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The HDSSB club supported a series of good laws in this Croatian Parliament, regardless of who was the promoter. We consider this law, and this shows the amendment of SDP MPs, which I said three hours ago, the HDSSB club requires this law to go into two readings because we have enough time to fix this law because there are also a number of failures. Not the technical, not the point and the decimal, not the small and the big letter, but there are really legitimate failures. This analysis of those who wanted to invest in Croatia, especially in energy, may indeed tell us about the situation. Because no one's coming here unless there's a profit. And let us not be so self-loving so that we feel that the world loves us extremely because we are beautiful, smart, because we bring things unreservedly, which we do not regret. I used to make decisions on the first ball, so he repented. Now I think about it. And this law is for thinking because this represents Croatia's energy future. Among other things, these consultants say specific targets for the period until 2020 have been formally taken over from EU strategic documents, that different projections have been used to quantify these objectives, those that require precisely the least changes in relation to the current situation. As a result, the specific objectives of energy policy are not transparent or consistent. The impact of the objectives on the achievement of the general objectives has been questioned. The decision-making of strategic decisions is delayed, decisions are taken without sufficient preparation and impact assessment and some are inadmissible and subject to changes which reduce policy credibility. The government has a short-term perspective that explains somewhat the delay in making decisions with long-term effects. The partial implementation of the decisions points to priorities that are different from formally accepted. Energy policy is not transparent. That's not what Vinkovic said, neither did HDSSB. That's what those who want to come here to Croatia and earn. So that's true. On the other hand, in this law stands the interest of the Croatian state. Well, we had different laws, so this interest of the Croatian state was the last hole in the play, and in this law, the interest of the Croatian state must be Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. And no one has the right to act beyond that, either to be UNPROFOR or to put themselves in the protection of someone else. So how do we explain to Croatian citizens who can barely make ends meet that we had to raise 37% of the price of gas, that we had to raise 32% of the price of electricity and then get new cars or I don't know what? How do you explain that to them? How do you explain to a pensioner who worked 45 years, who didn't go to that temporary pension and who doesn't have enough of that pension to warm up that 100-square house? Well, there's not even a foot of wood. In the end, how do we explain to people that we're passing certain laws of the future when they barely make ends meet today, when they were promised a plus of three salaries, not a minus to cry. Do you remember a colleague? And now they're citizens, and now they're crying at us as you take off our pants, cut our wages, and every one of them, so I don't get to say it harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32884	Replications. First, honourable representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must admit that my colleague, with his inspired step-up and his literary talent, truly impressed me with my poetry. I mean, we're gonna have to set up a poetry section in this House, a poet, a poet. Rome's going great, just one thing he keeps ignoring. It persistently ignores the fact that the collection is an inevitability arising from long-term irresponsible and poor business in energy and energy market policies. And it also ignores the fundamental truth that this law is not the fruit of our domestic genius, but this law is pure copying. Therefore, gentlemen, let's be politically consistent, let's not be hypocritical. If we have decided to go to the EU, it is known that both the line and the main judge are playing. And these are the rules of the game. And let's not waste our energy because we're talking about energy so loudly about something that isn't really a topic at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32886	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32887	Well, look, there's a series of art directions. One was larpurlatism where art was in the service of politics. Unfortunately, these aren't my lyrics, they're your citizens. You're surprised, Mr. President, you're surprised. There's also a general education. So, I don't think of it, in my mind in the Croatian Parliament, making the sections as you say, amateur lyrics, but obviously you could all do a section of the socialist utopian together. Because what you are doing is not the interest of Croatia, is not the interest of Croatian citizens, Croatian workers, Croatian farmers. Because everything you do, you work at the expense of them, you give them tax repression, it's not presses, it's repression, and you bring the entire population of Croatia into battle for survival. That's the policy, that was Plan 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32888	I have to explain, because I owe you, larpurlartism is art for art. It was therefore not in the function of any policy, it is a general education. Next is Branko Bačić's next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vinkovic, in your argument, in order to show short-sightedness in the work of the government, you used the opinion and quote of foreign consultants. Well, I don't think you should have been far outside of Croatia, when the last event in Croatia is talking about how and how the government thinks in the long term. In fact, it seems to me a month and a half or two ago that she assured us here in the assembly that only employees in the public sector and civil servants would not pay off the Christmas Day so we wouldn't cut their salaries, and here we heard yesterday from the Croatian government that we would now cut salaries. Secondly, the second perhaps event that also speaks of the long-term thinking of the Government is the fact that here somewhere in February we will approach the rebalancing of the state budget that we brought in late November 2012. Therefore, only those two for Croatian citizens, and especially for public sector employees and civil servants, only these two events, these two amendments speak enough about how much and how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken seriously considering economic development in the long term, the economic situation, the standard of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32890	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32891	Indeed, this was art for the sake of art, but most of those members were the pronouns of politics, so one other direction came out of it. And about the wages,... Say you, and you are not here to throw me, but to lead this session, fellow Stazic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I certainly will not vote for such laws and laws that put Croatian citizens in a completely suppressed position unlike you. 'Cause that's what you're gonna do every Friday. And when it comes to reducing wages to civil servants and when it comes to increasing the cost of energy, when it comes to increasing VAT, when you bring your hand into an unequal position first and foremost those who want to live from their work, which is guaranteed under the Constitution. Just remember, the way it went, "Live like a normal world, make a better life for everyone, not just them." Where'd you get that? That's how you acted while you were in power, and you made those decisions, although VAT was 23%, you didn't cut it either. But let's go back to, indeed, this energy, energy law. What's wrong with second reading? When the proposing has mixed the powers of regional and local self-government, when all of us here together can determine that this law will not bring a reduction of energy, it will bring perhaps more of those that will generate extra profits on Croatian citizens and on the Croatian economy. And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32892	Time. The last replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vinkovic, you were talking about the speed to be brought and the rush to something like that. I really agree with you that there is no need to rush, but we are constantly witnessing some kind of haste, and now that is in terms of EU accession. A short time ago, we also argued here about the increase in VAT on bread, milk, medicines. Well, it shouldn't have happened before July 1st, it wasn't anyone who forced us to go, and that's another blow to the citizens' standard, we have to testify. Now, we say this gas market law also says it will guarantee the provision of gas to citizens. Whoever can't pay him, to my pensioner, who'll vouch for him when he comes with those pliers from the distributor if he hasn't paid, I don't believe it, it's impossible. Furthermore, it's about Petrokemija Kutina, it's said it's important, of course it's important, it's important for the whole and for those who work, and for the port and for all, it's important for the farmers of our own who, of course, can't buy that artificial fertiliser to sow. Now comes the seed season, they didn't get support and they're really on their knees. And now, under these circumstances, think the same thing about their possibilities for some, I really don't think that's reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32894	And the last answer to the last line, respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32895	Well, you see, dear fellow Milinkovic, I'm not talking about prices right now, I'm not talking about milk, I'm not talking about agricultural products, even though the price of fuel, the fact is someone said that the price of oil comes from everything. But I argue, and these are statistics, that Croatia with natural gas meets 70% of its needs based on current wells. Why don't we invest in new wells, which is why we don't use Croatia's potential in 2010. It is a signed contract by which we delivered all Croatian natural gas, sold it to Italians and now we import it at a much more expensive price to Croatia. The gas doesn't say if it's Russian, is it Italian, is it cathartic, here I expect these days when we adopt this law, and maybe even with these amendments of SDP, we're a little too long to have a knock on the door there by some Shake over there in Djakovo because the city of Đakovo owns gas infrastructure and since we're not satisfied with the concessionary so far because it doesn't invest too much in gasification of suburban settlements because it doesn't invest, because there's no business interest. Because a lot of people don't want to join up because the gas is too expensive. Here I hope and call on the cataract sheik if the council will not meet here with the Croatian Government, the Minister of Economy may come freely to Đakovo, I will give him anything he wants according to the spatial plan. We're positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32896	The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32897	Final proposal of the Gas Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 284. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been filed, we have a plate, please the esteemed Deputy Minister of the Economy to be made manifest. Amendment number one. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32898	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32899	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32900	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32901	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32902	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32903	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 4. The Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32904	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32905	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law. And amendment number five of Representative Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32906	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32907	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Thank you very much to the respected Deputy Minister of Economy Tamari Obradović Mazal. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 73 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Gas Market Act, in the text as proposed by the proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32908	We move to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, draft law No. 282 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Economy Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm going to be very brief, and I'm going to be very brief on the proposal I'm making in the parliamentary procedure. So it's about the investment law we discussed in this house last year, at the end of last year, which came into force on 10.10.23. In view of the fact that the practice itself of implementing certain provisions of this law has highlighted the need to adapt it simply a little bit to the requirements of the field, to the demands of the entrepreneurs themselves, to life, so to speak. We have done exactly that, that is, intervention in certain segments and therefore these segments of them three and four are the subject of this proposal. So what we propose to change and supplement is to clarify the very concept of investment, i.e. initial investment, an investment project that is defined as investment in long-term assets introduced into the ownership of the promoter and at a minimum value of 150 thousand in Croatian kunas, i.e. a minimum value of 50 thousand euros in kunas for micro-entrepreneurs, i.e. that under those conditions it must also be satisfied that at least five new jobs related to the investment are created. In the case of micro entrepreneurs, three jobs. In order to avoid the possibility of misreading the current provision in practice, it is also proposed to change the definition of the calculation of the eligible costs of opening new jobs associated with the investment, which are calculated as gross wages over a two-year period rather than as a percentage of gross earnings over a two-year period. We also add a new provision allowing the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe the amount of incentives given as eligible costs for the creation of new jobs associated with the investment project, i.e. criteria for determining the actual amount of these incentives. What is also proposed is to amend the provisions of Article 21. It is prescribed that the Government can set a specific investment project out of interest for the Republic of Croatia and that the criteria will actually be established by the regulation itself. What is proposed is that this issue will be regulated by the specific adoption of a specific law or law which will be lex specialis in this matter, it is a future law which is still in the preparation of the strategic investment law. In this way, we would have a legal framework from a regulation that regulates the promotion of investment and the improvement of the investment environment and open space for the adoption of a special law or the adoption of a future Strategic Investment Act which actually defines to its matter what projects are of strategic importance. Thank you again for your attention and, of course, thank you for the debate on the working bodies of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32910	I thank the Deputy Minister. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Committee for the Economy, the Honorable Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32911	Indeed, the Committee on the Economy held a debate yesterday at its meeting on the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to that law and unanimously supported these amendments and additions to one proposed amendment. Namely, the Committee is addressed on the basis of the proposed amendment of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The new text of the amendment of the Committee on Economy has been harmonised and, therefore, following the debate, the Committee has decided to propose the following amendment to the Croatian Parliament, so in Article 1 behind point 12, a new point 13 is added: "It is considered as the end of the works to be the date of issue of a solution for carrying out the activity or the date on which the material assets related to the investment project become operational." This amendment is submitted for a clearer formulation and for the announced amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction so that there is no need for the proposed point of the Committee to be assessed in such a way that the proposed paragraph 13 of Article 1 is called for by that law. Once again, the Committee unanimously supported that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32912	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the clubs, we will have until the break only hear from the club of Independent Representatives and the respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, Mrs. Obradovic, gentlemen of the parliament. I'm glad to have this law today on encouraging investment in the improvement of the investment environment. Yes, such legal suggestions, whatever anyone thinks about them, are really necessary. Here's only in January unemployment in Istria is growing by 1140 people, and when we share those 1140 people with that 23 working days, it turns out that 49.5 people come on the market every day. We can round to 50. And it's lucky that this year Easter, I guess we'd say it's going down relatively early, so I guess this unemployment is going to start to shrink too. In 4 years, around 250,000 people remain in the real sector in the Republic of Croatia without a job. In the public sector, which we kind of belong to, and we're out of work, I guess there's no one left. It doesn't matter if it's a state it doesn't matter if it's a county, whether it's a municipality, a city or a public utility. And this announcement of pay cuts or redistribution by 3% yesterday means less public administration to more teachers, teachers, teachers it's painful but God forbid it stays on. The opportunities around us will not say that they are catastrophic around you know in Croatia is obviously even harder. Then what is it to do? I personally feel that such laws are simply necessary. The essence of the law is in the following, so micro-entrepreneurs' investments in a minimum amount of 50,000 euros can now qualify for investment support. For other entrepreneurs, the current minimum investment amount or the investment amount of 150 000 euros remains. According to this logic, the government wants to encourage a number of smaller medium-sized enterprises to invest, incentives such as tax exemptions or direct payments to open jobs cannot be granted to entrepreneurs in difficulty, as well as to those in the steel and shipbuilding industry. It is established that the eligible costs of new investment-related jobs are calculated as gross salaries of workers over a two-year period, new jobs must be opened within three years of the completion of work or work in that firm or firm. Large entrepreneurs have to keep their jobs in the investment for five years while small and medium-sized enterprises commit to three years. And that would be about the essence of this law. There's no money if there's no jobs and I think it's kind of logical. What is certainly most important is that we must understand either we will help this real sector or we will put ourselves at risk. At this point in the Republic of Croatia, we have about a million and 350 thousand workers. Of that number, 270 thousand people who work in the public administration should be taken away from it, so we come to the numbers of a million 150 thousand workers who maintain 1 million 200 thousand pensioners, 270 thousand people in the public sector, whether they were municipal, city, county, state services, and we still have a brother here for nearly 400 thousand unemployed. Of course we understand each other, for me, a teacher or a police officer doesn't matter who's standing at the border, I certainly don't put him in what they call non-productive jobs. I don't count it, but the fact is that behind it someone in the manufacturing workplace simply needs to secure the pay. And now where do you come from? Foreign investment actually does not exist, the world is in crisis, Croatia is in recession and I think we are mature to simply admit the truth that nothing can happen overnight. What is certainly most needed at this point as I see opportunities is that the small sector is finally starting to be treated as a major sector in this country. Why? I said a little while ago we have a million 350 thousand people working in the public administration and in the real sector, so somewhere around $150,000. In large companies around 350 thousand people work, in small companies about 700 thousand people. Who's filling the budget? The 350,000 large companies fill around 40% of the budget and the small company fill about 60% of the budget. When it comes to getting large parts in redistribution get cca 80%, small somewhere around 20%, and total income means big ones make about 60% and those 700 grand in small companies where there are about 40%. It's similar elsewhere in Istria. We have 70,000 jobs, 15 thousand Istrians working in large companies, 15 grand in the public sector, 40 grand in small companies. So in this law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of investment and the improvement of the investment environment, it's actually about money. We so me or the Parliament, the government doesn't matter I think we need to create one catalog first of all the rights that can be realized is not important now small, large companies and not that money sort of passes by us. We have an example. guarantee funds. In 2011, this guarantee fund, followed by the state, amounted to 750 million kuna. Out of 750 million kunas in Istria, 0.55% or 4.2 million kuna came. In 2012, it was in the guarantee fund 900 million kuna, we don't have the information for that 2012 I can get it if I want to, 2013 will certainly be even more money. So there's money, now it's a matter of redistributing. Now we have this year's entrepreneurial impulse of 750 million kuna. It's money from one to three percent interest. We have plus 190 million kuna of grants, etc. What's important is that somehow we intervene in that interest. What bothers me is that some cities from where I come from invest more money with PRs and media than they do in a small economy, not to mention them now. We must also begin to agree that I do not know, for example, every county that 5 of some strategic investments that will be built with private not public money. Twenty times five, let's say there's a hundred of them plus the city of Zagreb should have 20, 10, it doesn't matter. So that would be followed not by public, but by private money. We must simply agree not only on individual legal solutions but about 100 or 150 or 200 does not matter all Croatian projects. We would simply have to do everything that in these 100, 150 projects we have almost everything and in some way the investor in one word comes to an end and can already start working the next day or the day after. Clearly, when we talk about this law here, maybe it's not about some big money. This is about 50,000 euros, 150000 euros, etc. And I think this principle that the legislator has set at least is fair. You hire people, and then you clearly use that non-refundable, etc. Money. But no matter what, I think we all agree that the situation in this country is extremely ungrateful. I'm afraid it might be worse. In 2012, banks made a profit, 30% lower than in 2011. Someone will say that because of these under quotes of theirs they do not lose but that less achieved gain should not be grieved. But that's also not why you should look forward to it. Why? Because last year these same banks followed the economy with 8 billion kuna less than in 2011. The biggest companies from Agrokor continue to record less traffic and less profits and all this clearly says that it is not the time to deceive themselves. Pula, which was the largest exporter per capital last year after export, was behind Sisak, Kutina, Varazdin, Rijeka and the like. In 2011, she had exports of clearly 3 and a half billion kuna, last year a billion 590 million kuna. So, once again, I'm going to say that this law is good. Now, just so the practice is good and no one gets hurt. What we certainly need in this country is a little less barren, maybe a little less planting, politics less, less evil, a little bit of malpractice. Well, I'm glad Mr. Lorencin is here. My ex-party is doing a poll and they don't know what to do, so they're asking if you're for Caine who's on coal or a person x who's against coal. And Cain is against coal. But how did the Assembly of the County of Istria make a decision on coal in that document of Istria 2015 zero unemployment and maximum competitiveness, that the Office for Spatial Planning of the County of Istria said that coal, that the President of the Council of the IDS Assistant Minister of Economy is also working on Plomin Well, I can't go back, I mean, I'm talking about strategic investments among other things that should also simply be monitored in some way, but I said nobody should plant anything on anyone. [[Stazić: Comrade Cain, come back to this.]] Some investments, I'm not going back to that. There'll be a chance for that tomorrow. There are some investments in Croatia, but only those are investments financed by public money. Foreign investments are seen and simply do not see each other, citizens are scared, rather savings than invest, if they can invest at all while the economy or the economy are simply waiting for what will be. Yeah, I said it. The profit was down 40%, the INAs by 28%, banks by 30%, Podravka shows loss, in Istrian companies is similar. There are good companies that grow profits, etc. But let's not look forward to those most powerful who are surely in a difficult situation than they were a year ago. Until we in this country begin to draw money from citizens, it will be difficult from the Croatian economy. Until banks start investing, lending, monitoring citizens, the economy will be difficult. Well, in one Istria in the last 20 years, only four hotels were built over 100 beds, four hotels. By 1991, the other 72. ... is a complete tourist base not only in Istria but also in Croatia, a complete industrial base. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The country was electrified, 400,000 apartments were built. Okay. After that, there was a war. But what's ahead of us I'd say is just as demanding as it may have been to wage a war. It's not that dramatic. Fortunately, it won't be so bloody, so devastating, but it's just as serious. Now somebody's gonna tell me why it was built so much by the time we were 90. It may have been a market that was bigger, clearing, non-classified, which I know what, but also the fact that, without a big question, big investments could be accessed. And yes, I suppose it was far, far more honest than it is today. However, regardless of all this legal proposal is a correct proposal and I think we should support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32914	We have a single replica reported on this. Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Cain you said nothing could happen overnight. That's true, but in a year and a few days, something could happen, and it didn't happen. When I listen to this and listen to your debate where you talk about cities that invest more in the PR than they might invest in the economy, I ask the question, and what other cities and units of local self-government besides all those liberations they've given and prepared can I still invest if there is no atmosphere in the country for the development of entrepreneurship? Perhaps it is time, perhaps this amendment of the law goes in this direction, to stop dreaming in Croatia about some megalomanic projects in certain parts of Croatia and to start talking and preparing a series of smaller projects throughout Croatia. Maybe it's a step that will bring about this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32916	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32917	I agree with you absolutely. A lot of megalomania anywhere to be mentioned like that. However, something else I would like to say is clear counties are underestimated about redistributing budget money, but if the 2013 budget of the Republic of Croatia is expressed as a figure of 124 billion kuna, these 127 cities, 460 municipalities, 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb is available somewhere with 22.23 billion kuna. So, somewhere every fifth... With Zagreb, not without Zagreb, with Zagreb, means every fifth kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That should also change. This country needs to be radically decentralised amongst other things, it may need to be regionalised, so perhaps that responsibility from a higher point of view will be reduced to a lower level, and it will certainly be more adequate as it is better done as you mention 1,000 small projects than one project in one place. So it's better to make 1,000 all over the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32918	Thank you. This is now a good time to mark the break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32919	We're continuing to discuss clubs. It is the turn of the Croatian Labour Party club of colleagues Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32920	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. We have a law in front of us called the Investment Encouragement Act and an improvement in the investment environment, that is, its changes and additions, which could also be called a law for a bright future. I believe in the light of the future, the bright future is always ahead of us. By definition in the future, otherwise it wouldn't be what it is. In the light of this law, the first paragraph defines what this law should serve, which is its task, the promotion of investments, the improvement of the investment entrepreneurship environment in the Republic of Croatia, etc. the achievement of the necessary investment activities in the context of the full compliance of the investment project under consideration with the rule of law of the Republic of Croatia, etc. It's wonderful, but what we actually have today, we don't have any investment, we don't have one firmly promised by the state, we don't have a private investment from foreign capital that's crazy to come here, he doesn't know how to get here as soon as possible. We don't even have a chance to get a new job, we have 300 and so many thousands of unemployed, and the number is growing every day. The law comes to us in an urgent procedure which is, of course, justified, as much as all of this and the basic laws and these amendments and additions propose and prescribe not only that it is urgent, but it is already time and gone, it is not 5 to 12, 12 and a half or at least 12 and it is broken as the Dalmatians say. So, the first paragraph of the score is great, the only thing he lacks is that he doesn't have it. The second paragraph doesn't seem so beautiful anymore. The question I asked myself when I read that explanation was who's crazy, what are we talking about and what's this really about? In fact, the paragraph says the Law on Investment Encouragement and the improvement of the investment environment provides the necessary legal framework to create assumptions for increasing numbers, but also the quality of investment projects. It sounds fantastic, sounds like we're in Turkey that has annual GDP growth, I don't know 5, 6, 7% or China, or at least in these European countries where GDP doesn't fall, it doesn't really sound in any way. At the end of the first page of the argument is an explanation of what this introduction is. This is an introduction, and this is obviously very soon the adoption of that famous law on strategic investment that the public has been buzzing about for weeks since the idea actually appeared. So far, the decision is whether any investment of strategic, important interest to the Republic of Croatia has been made by the Government by its regulation, when we adopt this law, then these issues will be decided by a special law, by a lex specialis which will be called so likely, as announced, so the Law on Encouragement of Strategic Investments. And in that lex specialis, it will appear that the government is making a decision, as it is now made by a regulation. Well, we won't ride a horse anymore, now we're gonna jump on a donkey, and at the same pace we're going in the wrong direction. The regulation will also be adopted, the regulation will be passed in addition to a special law which will allow the government to also assess which category of investment is something. And why is there no investment in the Republic of Croatia? Because of the crisis, okay, because of the crisis, the crisis is, of course, a magic word that has become the catcher of every failure in politics, not just the Republic of Croatia, every failure in politics. The word crisis is a stickler like it's a elemental accident, so now it's a thunderbolt, so that's what we can do. I haven't heard a single potential foreign investor, I've been following them very closely when they appear in our media, that he said he mentioned the word crisis, and I haven't heard one that would say that Croatian workers are too expensive and that it's a prerequisite for him to come to our country to liberalize, flexible or what's already called the labour market. People don't talk about it, they talk about how the situation in property legal relations, land books, and it leads to despair, how the administration kills them, and how corruption at all levels is especially locals so that they actually get sick into work and from all these foreign investors we get most often those like those London brothers seem to be called the cane that ruined a couple of companies in Croatia, they collect money and they probably disappear from Croatia. I have a firm attitude covered by hundreds of examples, not that Croatian workers work badly, that they are lazy, dumb, overpriced, that they abuse breaks, that they go on vacations when I get fired and so on. The problem is the organization of the state. So the government tells us these days that the salaries in public services that are said anyway, the last line of defense, that these salaries are too big and there is no other, it has to be cut, it has to be earned by a million kunas, the government tells us at the same time that our citizens are stupid, wasteful, incompetent and entering the minuses, pigs in their trunks, heads in minuses, they don't know what they're going to do with themselves. So they go to minus three salaries, and then the finance minister will bring them to their senses and show them that it doesn't make sense. It doesn't occur to anyone that maybe these citizens are getting into minus three salaries because they haven't been paid for six months, because winter is because the bills for heating are triple as much as in summer, because they simply don't have anything to live on. If the government knew what it should know that today is the world day of social justice, on February 20th, the UN declared the world day of social justice and principles, or what it requires of the Member's authorities, exactly what I was just talking about earlier. Respecting the fundamental principles of labour rights, promoting social dialogue and tripartiteism, developing and strengthening social protection measures, promoting employment by creating a sustainable institutional and economic environment. If the Government knew that, and perhaps the world day of social justice, new justice would otherwise celebrate not by reducing wages, not by announcing new taxes, not by increasing the price of gas, not by trying to use the legislative stampede under the accelerated procedure to solve problems that are not here, they are not in this paper. The solution to the problem as well as the problem itself is located elsewhere. This government obviously doesn't want to look for that solution, let alone to find it. Shouldn't he have figured out how to make him put together a team that could give real solutions and not a proposal like this that translates the nonexistent hollow into a nonexistent blank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32921	Replica, Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32922	Thank you very much. You said that these announcements were announced by the government that there are high wages in this sector and that it is therefore going to reduce to 3% gross. I've been reading all the papers, listening to all the statements, not hearing anyone from government officials, government officials saying that someone said they're taking off their wages for the reason she's high. And speaking earlier, it was said that the salaries were not large and that they were the last line of defense to succeed in launching investments in some other way so that people would not be touched there, but it was constantly said that the real sector had been since 2009. In the years since the crisis began, he gave his pain to the crisis, which is why we have so many unemployed today, but nobody has ever mentioned big wages, and that's one thing, and the other thing when you're talking to the left side all the time, like I'm not the mayor of the Klanjca, but I'm the mayor of Linza, or I'm the mayor of Berlin, and I'm talking to some other people, and then you're coming from your neighborhood like you're living with some other people. Because you really think that the government increased the price of gas because it was a goal or it just had to happen because it had to happen. Did the increase in gas go to people in private, and it didn't go to businesses? Can we currently get cheaper gas on the market? Can we get cheaper electricity? ...is this government hasn't invested in energy plants in the last eight years, and we're to blame? If you truly think you are, I'm interested in what it's going to look like when you get a chance to run the country, I just don't know when it's going to be. Probably never.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32923	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32924	I just happened to be looking at your side because... there were all three, four people here. You'd have to turn your head to the right to show me how I feel about where the blame is. I'd have to ping-pong play and it really doesn't make sense for a pay phone. Of course we live in the same society, of course we live in the same world. What fascinates me is actually the ability of this government, this government that should be a social democratic government to find the exact position, that point where it will hit those most vulnerable. That's fragrant, this is a minus that Minister Linic will limit. Why didn't he think of a minimum regulation, a command, and there are economic mechanisms that can be implemented, interest on... allowed and disallowed. And that could have been the mechanisms for how this could have been done. If there are mechanisms to dictate the interest rate for housing loans, there is even more effective mechanisms for this. But always with a finger and on the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32925	Gold shower replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32926	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Vuljanić you mentioned today is today the World Day of Social Justice and in this country there is less and less social justice or almost no more. Clearly, all those promises from the Kukuriku coalition have not come true and citizens no longer trust this government. And what you said most importantly is the issue of preparing the law for strategic property management and what you have indicated that the government will have the power by law to decide what strategic investments they are. I am now asking myself a question if Plan 21 included transparent management of RH's assets on the basis of all these promises that did not come true then whether these promises will come true when we talk about strategic property management and transparent management of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32927	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32928	Thank you for pulling that off, that's my favorite theme. Namely, the Republic of Croatia and most of the units of local and regional self-government do not have a list of assets. You can't see anywhere in one place that country has. And now how the boss can manage anything, his house, his company, the state, the city, the municipality if he doesn't know what he has to see in exactly one place is that we have these apartments, this house, this building land, this agricultural, this barracks, this, this, what we don't know is what we have, number one. And number two, we never said what we really wanted to do with it. In what way we want to master that property we have. So there's no strategy. Whoever you hear from economic analysts, political analysts lately to talk about what is the biggest problem in Croatia, there is no strategy. We don't know how we want to have a country like this in 10, 20 or 50 years. They don't even know what our cities want to be. I tried to go to Karlovac where I came from to make some kind of consensus to see what we really wanted. What kind of city would be in 15 years, the headquarters of the metal industry as it used to be, the dormitory of Zagreb, something. But let's make a deal and then go that way. It failed to do most of it, I know that some cities have, most of the cities in Croatia but it unfortunately failed to do so to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32929	On behalf of HDZ Representatives Club Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32930	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Well, this is as technical and less important as the debate and debate seems, I think it's a more important topic than this is an introduction to the recent discussion of the Strategic Investments Act. I hope that we can agree on the following, which is that at least private investment should be above the policy and party political interests, as at this point in particular, economic growth and the country's exit from the crisis should be above the narrow party interests, regardless of the position and opposition, and in that sense, I hope that you will agree here on the left, and that in the past year, with all the criticisms that we have made with all the warnings that the state is going in the wrong direction, that you are still leading in the wrong direction of the national economy and thus supporting the latest amendments and amendments to the Law just to encourage investment, we have supported these amendments and amendments to the laws. And this time these are like I said less formal and more techniques of change, but what's important is so we're talking about introducing into the Strategic Investments Act. As I prepare for today's presentation, I read myself what I said about three months ago, I think that at the end of September it was in the debate on the last amendment and the addition of the Investment Encouragement Act. And here's one of the sentences back then was that one of the articles in that amended law should actually turn into a law that in some transition countries is called the law on speeding up investment of interest to the state, in this case the Republic of Croatia. And in this sense, indeed, there is plenty of room in Croatia for us to be more investment friendly and be more entrepreneurially competitive. What you must be talking about when we talk about these investment laws is something special, and that's what your colleague said earlier, and that's what we do to know what we encourage and why we have to have a National Strategy. The national strategy cannot be two years old, one year old, three years old but must indeed be at least 10 years old. It should be discussed seriously in the Croatian Parliament. Maybe I'm still under the impression and don't be angry that I'm going to be very personal last week in the U.S. and education at Harvard, but I hope we all want our culture of political dialogue to improve, not to improve, so let's just say that strategy national should be the subject of debate in this Croatian Assembly. Part of this strategy is national, and this law should also be industrial policy. Now, industrial policy and investment in industry are not only important economic but they determine the future and also some part of Croatian education, and in fact what kind of economic country we want to become. Now let's get back to the law. So, besides missing a strategy that we are constantly warning is missing industrial policy, although as far as I've heard the Ministry of Economy is preparing industrial policy. What we have not heard now, and what was missing and in preparation for the discussion of the Strategic Investments Act is an adequate public debate, a wider social debate. So, if you want to change something, I think it's crucial that an open public debate is being held and that everyone who can have an interest in this debate, even those who may at first have no interest in either a political one or another in the debates on investment or beyond in the economy, must have the right to state their position and that should, therefore, make this whole story as transparent as possible. Some parts of the announced law we have not yet received in the House I must confess to you and now I will read it because it is important that we do not make this whole story more transparent. So when you say the Government of the Republic of Croatia can declare a specific investment project of strategic interest then it is clear that you must do so, you must write. If you don't have a strategy, you have to set guidelines. So you can't leave room for any guess who's right, who doesn't have a right. I'm only talking about the private sector. So, I personally spoke not only this year as much as we are in opposition but also in 2011 as my colleagues talked about the need for the public and private sectors to cooperate closely. However, just because we cannot move forward there will be no investment without close cooperation between the public and private sectors. It is important in Croatia that we have an open public debate and that the whole procedure, the whole process, whether you have become a strategic project. But we are not just talking about strategic projects that must be clear, accessible to the public and transparent. A few sentences and a bill announced. I talked about it myself not only here in the Croatian Parliament. There's gonna be a chance we can still talk. However, the following should be said. So, when we talk about the famous bill, then, except for us in HDZ at the beginning, it was wrong and it was called the Strategic Investments Act. For something to be a strategic investment, of course you are expected to have a strategy, because with all due respect shopping malls or some shopping mall of 500 million kuna it can hardly be a strategic investment for the Republic of Croatia. So, apart from missing a strategy what's clear I've proposed a bill is not fixed, it's actually poorly written. It was not clear that this law would not prevent the sale of state-owned natural resources, that local self-government and spatial plans would not be derivated. That's pretty important. So no one in their right mind wants the opposite of local administrations, whoever is locally in power and local environments, to do some kind of project. And what I said in person on several occasions is for public administration in Croatia and there is no need for an answer, but it cannot come in four years. At all levels, we say that starting with the government and down. So, it's not absolutely adequate and exceeded the answer especially when it comes to business and investment and domestic and foreign, but within a month, two, three, five and not in three years or preferably in advance, and that's why I'm talking about how important it is to have clear rules of the game in advance, and that's why I think this law that's only in the announcement is so important that it's being discussed. I think the moment is also when we are talking not only about investment, but also about competitiveness would not be a bad time to debate in the Croatian Parliament, but also about whether the Croatian Assembly should, in this case, be able to make this whole debate about strategic, non-strategic investments more publicly available because at least to the public and more transparent. Here I could talk a lot about why there is no investment in Croatia. They are not there because of the laws of this or that, because neither this nor the Strategic Investments Act is a magic wand and it will not foster economic growth unfortunately but rather a very different direction, both tax and any other policy. However, what needs to be said and what is very important for all those who today in Croatia and hire people and pay salaries and pay the state tax, which is that this government must understand that, in addition to encouraging future investment, it must provide a framework for those who live in Croatia today not only this year but many more years just so that they can continue to employ people more and more and not less. And instead of growing unemployment to finally start falling unemployment on one side. On the other hand, since we are entering the EU and no matter how slow this happens after 1.7, we will be exposed to much more competitive markets with even less obstacles. They're not big today, but with even fewer obstacles. And therefore, the Government who else has the responsibility to prepare the Croatian economy for this competition. All we've seen in these years is unfortunately driving in the opposite direction, unfortunately. The second largest VAT in Europe, dividend tax retroactively when our regional competitors have a total profit tax of 20 percent maximum we have retroactively still a dividend tax. So these are the topics to be discussed. Public administration, starting with the government not only in the EU but globally, today, which, such as companies or companies in international competition, are not only European, so are public administrations, so are governments, so are countries in global competition. So we have to be aware of that. All that we have seen in these years, I have not talked at all about the collection of energy, which is a major problem at this time of tax repression that I mentioned absolutely water the country unfortunately in the increasingly uncompetitive and the consequences of this are the growth of unemployment, the growth of the debt of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies. So, we expect this government not only to finally hear the strategy, we expect it and on several occasions we have asked for it both in the assembly and outside the HDZ assembly, which is that Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic finally comes to the Croatian Parliament and explains whether he will achieve an economic growth of 1.8% or not, and if he does not, if he wants to achieve it? That's not what we got the answer to. The last answer that was just in my last current hour personally answered by the prime minister. Now, I appreciate if you will find it difficult to achieve what you planned a month or two ago then it would be appropriate to come back to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public and say what we will do and how we will do it. Here, and one more sentence at the end. So let me go back to my education last week. So what I honestly didn't expect to hear at Harvard, Boston, Boston, is that the state in the 21st century is responsible for economic growth. I have to admit, it surprised me. Now, we've discussed this in different ways in this assembly over the past few years, and you and I here now have the honour of participating for the past 13, 14 months I didn't expect to hear it. But this only adds to the Croatian government as well as to the Croatian Parliament to be aware of the weapons and tools available. Of course, knowledge is needed, but in the 21st century knowledge is only a prerequisite, and it is not enough. We've never seen that knowledge before. Because if we're talking about budget rebalancing in February or March this year, so I don't know, I don't know. There are colleagues who have a much longer internship, and I don't think even in the '90s, the rebalancing didn't happen in the middle of the war two months after the budgets we warned you about not bringing in that way, that they weren't real, that they weren't real, that it wasn't done that way. And I'm going to end up with a sentence, so investment is a consequence, investments don't happen on their own. We expect the private sector, both domestic and foreign to happen, to have investments, but the prerequisite is actually for long-term survival and economic growth, and we have the potential I assure you, and foreign investors who I had the opportunity to talk to in 2011, so there is potential but that we obviously do not know how to achieve it. So today I also had a press release from my colleague Dalic and I if you have a knowledge problem, hire experts. If you don't trust domestic experts, hire foreign experts. But let's go in a completely different direction than the one we're going right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32931	Replica, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32932	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I even have to point out that with some part of my fellow Milosevic's debate, I agree, and that's the part that concerns the really urgent necessity of adoption of both strategy and industrial policy, as well as the creation of a stable tax system because the continued intimidation of people with new tax duties is certainly not good for investors. But what I would disagree with is that this government has been going in a completely wrong direction for a year like you said. In fact, here's the government that I'm sure of, and it's actually the best way to see it is to work out a legal framework, a legal framework, create preconditions for investment growth, but of course it's not realistic to expect that in a year everything that hasn't been done in the last 20 years and, of course, in the middle of what we know is a really big exhausting crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32933	Replication response, Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32934	... The best fact is, you're being derrogated by the facts. [[Specially enabled.]] Take the figures from 2011 from economic growth, the unemployed, the halting of unemployment growth, further, exports and everything and look at the figures in 2012. They all told you in this assembly a year ago what would happen to the growth of the tax press after four years of crisis. I don't know if I have any need to politicize right now, but just to get the public's attention to get the numbers. Sixty thousand or many unemployed, the new unemployed have been the result of this government's economic policy for the past year. I don't know if you think someone else is responsible for this unemployment? Those people who have failed, those entrepreneurs who have failed or the people who have stayed on the road? I don't know what else to tell you. So there's economic policy, there are people who know them, let's hire them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32935	Turtle Collar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32936	Thank you very much. Mr Milosevic, the first congratulations on the way to America, and I hope that you will have the knowledge and experience that you have received to convey to us, but today we have discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and Advancement of the Investment Environment, so you were actually talking about a law that has not yet arrived at the bench and that of the Strategic Investments Act. And mentioned that nowhere in the law was it decidated that there would be no sale of natural goods, and I read the law, at the chairmanship of the Association of Cities we talked about it and I didn't see it written anywhere. Because if it were in the law, then I would personally be against that law no matter what I sit on the left, but it doesn't say anywhere in the law. Moreover, some things that are now, and you know what investment problems are, you know that two-thirds of business or economic zones are empty to us and that these are problems with investors and what can make one drawn stream in cards and recorded, and that in nature there are no things for someone, which the unit of local self-government has made a spatial plan, where in the spatial plan where the forest land is placed in an economic or business zone. Under the current conditions, the minister could make a decision means selling the land, and now, according to this strategic plan, power will only be made by the government and it will be very clear and transparent. A public debate, of course, as big as possible, as soon as possible in the Parliament, so that we can all put our opinions together and get the really best bill. As far as industrial policies and strategies are concerned, of course we should, but I think you'll agree with me that we have some things to deal with right now. What we are, at the very end of the line, is what we have brought, so we have seen that it is not better and that we change immediately rather than stand firm behind it and see that it is not good. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32937	Thank you very much. Replication response, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32938	So, look at me at all, no one in their right mind suspects good intentions, but good intentions are not enough, that's the key. Therefore, quality laws or less quality laws are written, and sublegal acts are passed so as not to leave a thing on someone's behalf and on someone's good will, but to create a legal framework. What I didn't mention in the debate on behalf of the club, but I already mentioned it five times, so it's boring, why didn't you, why didn't this government continue an action plan to remove obstacles to investors. So, can we now release the concept of difference, the names of this law on strategic investment, and I guess in Croatia that has 4 million 400,000 inhabitants and a craftsman with 50,000 kuna should be a serious investor, should be. So, if some things need to be accelerated, you should, but you have to, and therefore, and I'm going to mention it 10 times more, so on a systematic level, or you're going to call it an action plan to remove barriers to investors, call it different, it doesn't matter. It is only important that the Croatian administration system works equally well for those who invest 50 thousand kuna and employ 3 employees, even talking about them in the Investment Encouragement Act. So we're talking about billions of strategic investment, and actually this is exactly the law that's proposed to talk about both craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who need to invest, I don't know, 100 thousand kuna or 100 thousand euros and employ 3 people, and that's the big thing, and for that we need a total improvement in the legislative framework, for that we need a friendly business environment, for that we need completely different political messages for these entrepreneurs and craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32939	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32940	Thank you for your congratulations, I'll be happy, I'll be happy to talk about what was that 7 days last week there, because there were only talking about how. We all know what we should, I'm sorry, we all know what we should and how, but nobody or a few people know how, let's talk about how.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32941	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32942	Here's what I'm gonna say. I don't even have to go to America. But I want to look back at a few things you said and remind practically that that former Investment Encouragement and Investment Environment Act when it was supposed to be proposed by the former First Deputy Prime Minister was based on 3 statistical regions. I hope that now they are placed here in the amendments and additions of this valid 2nd, although Slavonia and Baranja and most of Croatia disagree, even many economic experts. It's really funny that this one is doing budget rebalances in the 2nd month or the beginning of the 3rd month, but it's also funny that already, here in the middle of the 2nd month, the finance minister says that the GDP increase is not 1.8% but 0.7%, so by the end of the year it's probably going to fall to -0.7% or -1.8%. But here's what needs to be done, the entire Croatia needs to be decentralised. The problem will certainly not be solved either in this assembly or across the street, regardless of who was sitting there, because the problem is not solved exclusively in Mark's square, the problem needs to be solved in local and regional self-government. We need to go through decentralisation, through the higher fiscal capacity of local self-government units, not take their soul and ask the mayor to invest in the development of the economy, in the development of agriculture. Which, with empty pockets, empty budgets, that's impossible. And this law should be seen as a law of merged vessels, on the one hand we raise VAT to 25%, we choke the economy and energy prices, and then we talk about an investment environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32943	Thank you. Reply to replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32944	So, I agree with my colleague, Vinkovic, with you, which is very important, of course, political support from the government, the Croatian Parliament through the legislative framework, but it is not enough. Of course, the people on the ground in that public administration are actually key. And in the ministry, ministries and counties, or at the level of units of local self-government, they're actually the ones who have to enforce the laws. We usually have a problem with constantly passing laws, constantly changing things, and what we've already brought we haven't even implemented, and that's why we're here, among other things. As for economic growth 0.7% would be great news, I'm afraid it's hard to reach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32945	Nadica Jelish, the relic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32946	Dear Vice President. In your discussion, fellow Milosevic, you spoke about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and in this context you mentioned high VAT and retroactive taxation of dividends. However, you did not mention, I ask you why you did not mention, and that the current government has reduced precisely to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, the rate of health contributions from 14% to 12% and we will further reduce health contributions. So gross wages are absolutely and relatively the highest cost to employers and this reduction in the contribution rate for health insurance is a direct contribution to increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32947	Reply to replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32948	Not just me, from the HDZ Club, we welcomed what you've done, but it's not nearly enough compared to what's been done. So it didn't, it didn't even feel, in the Croatian economy it unfortunately shows figures. So if it were as you say the effect of this is significant, then we probably wouldn't have a new 60,000 unemployed since 2011. Until today, they would not have had a decline in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Interest growth, debt growth and citizens and these same entrepreneurs. So it's obvious that it wasn't a move in the right direction. Not to enter health care and the situation financially and every other day in Croatian health care as a consequence and that, but I repeat my path to hell is filled with good intentions. Good intentions aren't enough, so I guess we all figured that out now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32949	On behalf of the club of HNS representative colleague Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32950	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is when we passed this law last October, and I still think it's one of the most important laws this government has passed in the first year of office. Since fellow Milosevic was going on about the numbers, there may be some HDZ figures in 2011 as well. In the year, so with the final year of your term, that's exactly what a concrete investment looked like, in the last three years, they've reduced as much as 28%. Their share of GDP has been further reduced from 29% to 23% plus, of course, that of our celebrated spot at the bottom of the competition scale for 2011, we will not comment specifically. Since this government has set the creation of a favourable investment environment as one of the key objectives in this direction so far, it has taken some strong steps to reverse the trend and turn Croatia into a desirable destination for investors. In this respect, the investment agency and the HAMAG INVEST, which expanded their activity, were set up in the first step, and they were given a very serious task of helping and providing full support to investors from their first question to the finalisation of the project. In order to attract investors, it is necessary, first and foremost, to provide an attractive and stimulating investment environment and that is exactly what is defined by this law. The law envisioned a whole series of new ones as well as a significant improvement in the already existing measures of incentives for micro-enterprises, tax incentives, customs incentives, incentives for capital costs, incentives for labour-intensive projects and, of course, the most important incentives, incentives for job creation. The law therefore provides for a legal framework which has created assumptions for increasing the number and quality of investment projects that will be implemented in Croatia in order to introduce new equipment and modern technologies of greater employment and training of employees, product development and services, more added value, increasing entrepreneurial competitiveness and, of course, even regional development, which must certainly be one of the basic objectives. In practice over the past few months, the law has shown that it could be better and more efficient to implement the necessary changes and additions that were very clearly explained here, so I would not repeat them now. It is important to say that the application of this law brings a whole series of commitments to the Republic of Croatia and these obligations are precisely to be clearly and transparently defined as the objective of these amendments and additions, as these interventions in the law are more clearly and operationally determined areas, and therefore precisely in the part of the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia towards the investor, which is also the most financially demanding part. Of all the amendments mentioned above, we can say that the most important one here today has been quite a few words of amendments proposing an amendment to Article 21 of the law which prescribed whether a particular investment project can be declared by the government of interest to the Republic of Croatia and that the criteria for determining the project of such interest and finding the realisation of these projects as well as the way in which encouraging investors are attracted by a government regulation, while this amendment suggests that the issue will be regulated by the adoption of a specific law which has already been, as we know, quite a lot of shouting. But whatever the law wants to look like, I believe that it will be quality and well prepared and I really call for a quality and broad public debate. In any case, it will be much more transparent for the policy of strategic investment to be regulated by law than the government regulation, as has been regulated so far by this law. We certainly welcome these changes as the law itself at the HNS club, but we must say that Croatia's journey from a country that investors bypass from investors of a desirable destination is indeed looking both long and thorny. One law certainly can't and won't do it. We're all on the one hand very eager to invest and we're always declarative all for it. But when any investment here in Croatia only mentions all the wonders of why it could not. Experience shows that when investors analyse the region largely choose another country, so both Slovakia and one Serbia have drawn much more investment, they have given before this law for some investments and up to 100% more incentives. But also with all these amendments to the law and with all the possible incentives that are defined here, we will not become a country attractive to investors unless we change our attitude towards investment in our production and tourism and into all other branches. What we have in Croatia today is certainly not a good climate for investors and I think we are all aware of it and without investments there is no investment, no new factories, no tourist facilities and actually what is most important as a consequence there is no opening new jobs. So the government, but the whole society has a very serious task ahead of them, and it is to turn the Croatian country into which it will be happy to invest, and I think that is exactly what we all have to do together, much more and better. The HNS supports the amendments and additions of this law with the desire that it indeed gives as soon as possible concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32951	Thank you. The Republic has Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32952	Dear colleagues, you said this was one of the most important laws. Although probably so many proud words were related to the law last year. I will not mention statistical regions, and be assured that neither I nor the Croatian citizens are interested, I don't think HDZ was honey and milk... the figures they left behind. It's been a year and a half. We're not standing in a place, we're going back. We have a decline in industrial production, we have an increase in the unemployed, we have a country full of cranes and cranes from large and strong investments, we have a shortage of labour. I don't know if we live in the same Croatia, I really don't. And this law cannot be observed apart from anything, no matter what ministry suggests it. And no one really has anything against investment, but let's understand that in a centralized state where fate and employees and unemployed decide, I would say one man, that this can't lead the way of progress. We need to decentralisation Croatia that is the main driver, we need to reduce VAT. Well, the Prime Minister went to Germany, so Merkel did not raise VAT to strengthen the German economy, reduced it, thus increasing consumption, thus allowing new jobs to be created, did not raise energy prices, did not reduce wages. And we're talking about investment. I'm really waiting for that sheik from Qatar, and as far as I can tell, the problem will be solved by replacing certain people in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32953	... Here you go, pals. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32954	Dear colleague Vinkovic, here is his own counter in these two minutes as much as you have for replication. First, you said that this law should not be declared particularly important in order to then bring out a whole series of things that make this law extremely important. This law is very important, these are even changes and additions. When I said this law was important, that's what I was saying when he was passed at the 10th month last year, I just said it again. This law brings a whole series of measures and incentives from tax incentives, customs incentives, incentives for micro-entrepreneurs and what is particularly important about what you keep talking about brings high incentives for new jobs. And as you know under this law, they are determined in a way that increases these incentives from 3 to 9,000 euros compared to the unemployment rate in individual counties. Therefore, I think that for Slavonia and Baranja and your county of exceptional interest, we should certainly welcome the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32955	On behalf of the SDP club Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32956	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister. So let me really put SDP's views in the shortest lines. I have prepared something broadly debated, but given that so far, given that this law is really intruding into very small objective little changes, so three, two articles are added to explain some things, and we have some small changes. So there aren't many changes. And if we had talked about encouraging investment and improving the investment environment, we'd been talking all day. I also looked as a fellow Milosevic, although it was relatively little time to remind myself of the phonogram, we talked all day about this item of the agenda, and the day two after when it was decided by 129 votes we unanimously decided to adopt this law even though it was certainly a lot of sharp tones. You'll remember it was that session when Mr. Cacic was still defending the law, and fellow Maras had a lot of replicas with opposition clubs. So I would narrow this debate down and actually this strategic debate about where we're going and how we're going and going back to those points and it's coming to the agenda. We have no idea the strategy of tourism at this session we had a strategy of health care, we expect an industrial policy of the economy, so let us try to lead these discussions, to try these more or less technical laws, especially if we have spent the period of discussion when it was time. So relatively little time to get back to the law itself, I said on the Committee on Economy I don't know if it's a quantity we justify, so let's say something very important is done and very much is done. In my opinion, we could have made these changes and additions a lot simpler. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're just adding... colleagues before me were talking 150. 50 thousand euros were all in the previous law, only now adds a condition of at least 5 investment-related jobs or three for micro-enterprises, unless the law explicitly excludes the last remark of that, which refers to those investments that are over a million or over 10 million and require more employees. As far as the second amendment is concerned, we have ousted only a percentage of gross wages, meaning the eligible costs of opening new jobs, linked to the investment, are calculated as gross salaries in a two-year period and the last time it was about this dilemma, it was shown in the debate that remained in the law but here I commend and even if it is good for the amendments and supplements to come especially for such laws that are thus to say life to change in these details. The third amendment to add paragraph 6 to Article 11 and therefore to the amount of incentives for eligible costs and criteria shall be governed by the Government by its regulation. It is now given to do so, of course in accordance with the budget. There are items that read the law carefully, and can still see it. So up to 9000, up to 6000, up to 3,000 euros. Now these criteria are said to be far better graded. And the fourth amendment, which may have been the most important one, is this article 21, which is being changed and says that now the Government can declare a particular investment project of strategic interest. So the word "strategic" is added. It describes in more detail what this will all be about and that it will be passed, so the key lex specialis specialis law. In the current law, which I recall, we all accepted with 129 votes to stand, that it was practically a government that could comply with its regulation. Now, is it better this way, if it's better if the law comes to the public's light, to come to a public debate where it already is, to come to a debate in the Parliament about such important things? I think this is a better solution. So we haven't moved around much around some key differences, but objectively here is that I say a few sentences about investment, and we have to be aware of that, of course, is this stage and the political stage and it's good to be critical. But as far as investment is concerned, there is really great competition not only in the surrounding countries. In all of Europe, all over the world, competition in this field is very large and trust me that, if not all but most of the parliaments in the world have passed such or similar laws. Everyone's actually afraid for that saying that saying, "a little bar full of crocodiles." There is little objective financial resources in the world today, and a lot of interest in investment and all countries are crying out for investment both in the United States and Japan and not in these countries in the environment. We are all aware and this has been read from these non-political parts of the debate that are incentives that this law is only a cream on cake and that it only builds on, so what is most needed for investment and that is a good investment climate, legal security, financial system security, the efficiency of administration, the speed of decision-making. So, the overall efficiency of the functioning of the state, and I'm sure we all make it clear that often, and when the microphones are turned off, we'll all agree that what's been deposited for tens or 20 years that it's not easy for this government to work it out overnight. The ship is regardless of the statistical indication that the recession stopped in one quarter, two quarters last year. An objective ship has been sinking in macroeconomic indicators for the last five, six years. This government tried to pull the brakes when she got here, tried to fix things, but it's not easy. It is not easy to achieve this and all economists will tell you in the first sentence to achieve the growth of gross social product with a parallel reduction of deficits while reducing public consumption. Of course it's not easy. Of these three growth generators, personal and public consumption or possible exports, you do not have a third one, and if you knowingly withdraw one of them, and why withdraw it because of course you are going to Greece. Oh, no? We could have continued with a deficit of 15 or a disguised 20 if you added these extra budget funds. The Greeks did it, too. The Greeks didn't cut their wages, they didn't raise energy prices to refer to something else, and then one day they came where they came from. The policy of the former government here we mentioned the heating or something, why it picked up the heat. And listen, whether a better solution is to keep the price of heating below the actual cost of costing, to buy social peace, to have the Government of the Republic of Croatia say that local self-government decide whether to collect or not, while at the same time the energy companies are owned by state-owned companies. Not that it's illogical, but it's clear that the fig is left in the pocket and that five, six years of accumulated loss remains where we have 30, 40-year-old engines, inefficient, unproductive, and that one day you have to bring the simple price of energy to the same level. Because why would someone who heats up over a company of HEP's daughter company in a town have twice as cheap heating as someone who gets that same gas heating from a local company or wood or something like that. One word with all the difficulties and the recents about the reduction, i.e. harmonising financial, therefore, foreign income and expenditure with the desire of this Government not to go into new dues and to keep the deficit at your level practically at the level of the current deficit at this stage of the crisis and not to go further into new borrowing and to practically be the one to pay the interest. And with all the other colleagues, they mentioned before, and colleague Martincevic in the opening letter in some replicas, so all other measures encourage me not to repeat too much now that this government is making to encourage the economy, from the release for investment profits, from discharge. So for a contribution to health care from parafiscal duties, of all the other laws that we bring together and which we all praise more or less. Obviously, we're going to have to continue on that path for another time. And here I am also calling on the Croatian government to continue on the path of reform in this country, and then I believe that we will get better macroeconomic indicators and, of course, a better life for all of our citizens. Since we have supported this law all together 129, so MPs then, since it only brings improvement in some of its points, I expect that we will all support these amendments and complements together, and the SDP club in which I speak will certainly do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32957	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32958	Comrade Igor, I'm going back to that bar full of crocodiles, only, unfortunately, we always have to be frogs and not the least ones. The law remains a dead letter on paper unless it shows certain effects. We had that law a few months ago. I don't see it, and we really supported it, all of us. I don't see that he's brought some major effects and improved investment. So there was not even an investment other than those of Croatian Waters in state-owned companies. We had new debts to ensure liquidity and price increases. At the same time, those who sell to Croatians gas in Croatia by 40% are the lower prices in Hungary. They're also indicators. And it is in everyone's interest here to move because be assured we won't sit quietly here because someone will welcome us out and say the good things you do in the Croatian Parliament and you in the Croatian government? Because citizens are getting hungry, and the worst is when citizens keep their mouths shut. And they started to keep quiet. You no longer have those whistles here, and apparently Matija Gupca's beard is wrapped 5,6 times around the table so I wouldn't want to be a prophet and to announce the black days and unrest in Croatia but we all need to understand together that primarily citizens, and primarily those 370,000 who don't have their jobs live on the edge of existence. And yes, we're passing laws that don't have any effect, except for an increase in VAT, and even he didn't bring extra income into the state budget, but we have a problem with that now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32959	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32960	So here's very short, I think colleague Vinkovic is quite persistent and quite convincing in showing his thesis but unfortunately there are very few arguments in them. And I say here in this last remark, as my colleague Martincevic said, she kind of jumps into her mouth. Of course, my colleague Vinkovic, and you are aware of that, and we all know together that there is great and sharp competition around the investments themselves, and you know that I am looking for a better term that many countries have really made radical steps about it and that it is very difficult to survive in this reduced environment of therefore objective, quality financial investors and that there is a certain time to go through in any case. But you mentioned it, so I'm saying that you jumped into your mouth, the gas that collected 40%, etc. So there's no clock, two, three that we've been discussing exactly the law that's going to open up the gas market in some way and break the monopolies of these Hungarians as you say who raised the price, so we've come into trouble. Therefore, by opening up the market as it was done for both taxi services and mobile services and for many other things by law that we have passed here indirectly in some way we will probably also affect the price, not to talk about electricity etc. These are all unfortunately if we really talk processes that require time and simply can't get rid of things overnight. If you want to fix the system of education to go into dyspression then if you fix it today in 15 or 20 years, you'll only have results and quality relations. I believe that this government gives the impression that it knows where it is going and that it has a quality policy and I believe it will persist, and we are at least here in the parliamentary majority to help it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32961	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32962	Here's Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. A brief explanation in which we still consider significant differences between the original law that we supported a few months ago and these amendments to the laws that are coming today refer to Article 21. Therefore, the definition of a project of interest for the Republic of Croatia was different at the time than in this amendment the definition of a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the issue of interest and the issue of the strategic interest of one state is not two identical issues. And they're not exactly the same terms. The Republic of Croatia has an interest, and so as a state, whenever something is encouraged, it encourages public good, increases income, improves the quality of life of citizens, but the issue of strategic interest is not the same as any of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So, the strategic interest is being introduced by this amendment to the law. Therefore, this Article 21 puts in place a significant definition and the difference there is in relation to the previous law, so that we, as far as these amendments to the law are concerned, will think a little bit more about them, and I am not sure that we will simply hand over to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the definition of strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. This story of investment, there were always some magic words in Croatian society, some words that were spinning like something for years, like one mantra thing that this society has been doing for years, so we've had self-management for some years. It was that notion that described society, we had in the first half of the '90s conversion and privatisation, so we had years there. So then the time came, it was, that word was transition, so it took years to transition. So then came a notion of EU entry, so we lived through this concept of EU accession for years. Here's the last two years we've had that new word. Strangely all these years, we have not been forced into the word love, the word patriotism, the word concept of Croatian national interest. This concept has never been the prevailing concept of political speech in Croatia in all these 23 years. Interesting. And here we have that word of investment. It now revolves as a mantra from which one transformation will arise, investments will come, and at some point when those investments come Croatian citizens will wake up richer, happier, the anxiety that people in their hearts are suffering today will be no longer a problem paying bills all will live up when these investments come. And now we're all focused on how investments will come. But what are those, are these investments, let's try to put them in some correlation with economic growth. Are investments the cause of economic growth, are investments the result of economic growth, are they the objective of economic growth, are they the means of economic growth, of GDP growth? What is the ratio of these investments to the concept, let's say economic growth, GDP growth, living standards, where they actually stand. Here, I'll say what I think is the central problem of the Croatian economy, I don't think they're investments. I think the central problem is when everyone, here, is so easy, and Vinkovic knows the answer, here and his colleagues knew the answer before, I'll say my answer, and I think the central question is how many people in this country are doing? That this is the real question of how this society can achieve economic growth. Through the question of how many people in this country are working, and right now I'm doing 1,400 080. And I think that's actually the question, and as long as that number with a million and a half doesn't grow by the number of 2 million this society isn't going to be power, it's not going to be able to maintain those needs and those standards and all that it really wants and what it feels like existential. It will not be possible through borrowing, through these investments, through the growth of public consumption, or through denials. So I would put there in focus what is actually rare when you put, the question of the number of people that do because these are those people whose income actually comes from consumption, and you take taxes, and you make some profits in companies where they work. And then now you would refer to this story that has been mentioned here several times, around HEP and about gas, what's the problem, for example, when we're talking about HEP? The problem is, for example, when we talk about HEP and when we divide it, so when we privatize it in part and we want it in the years that are coming, then all of a sudden there's going to be thousands of extra employees, 1, 2, 3, 5 grand, and we're going to see in a few years in our public enterprises that are doing business at zero today, or they're going to go around zero, or they're making the minimum profit of whatever it is. That all of a sudden thousands will show up there and then five and ten thousand, and 15 thousand extra people. Because because we already have such examples in those public services and systems that we privatized, they are highly profitable today, all that profit goes to their owners, and the share of employment in these systems is extremely low. Where, indeed, the Croatian Telecom has no better example than HT. How do these things go? And how this concept of Croatian national interest, in which the concept of Croatian national interest through such models is satisfied, would really like to see it. And those who keep talking about this, about the global price of gas and how the gas has increased 40%, because it is the world price, and I would ask and say what is the world price of gas from the location in the northern Adriatic, what is the market price, the world market price of gas that is being drawn in the northern Adriatic and at what price should be sold in the Republic of Croatia? And does that gas have to cost just as much as the gas coming from Russia? And why does it cost the same and how do we defend Croatian interest in that case, and did we recognize it? And if we from our domestic reserves draw those 55% of the gas, and these domestic reserves are usually from the North Adriatic, what is the reference price of that gas? Or, for example, you all know very well that the propane butane that INA on large exports costs in the countries of the environment less than it costs in the Republic of Croatia. And that INA, INA gas, in INA tanks costs less, and why is it less, why only Croatian citizens pay more? And you keep under or when the price of gas rises you take on HEP's excellent condition, with low accumulated profits and high unemployment. The fact is HEP has surplus employees, there are, but you're devastationing it to that extent to create hundreds of millions of kuna debts, no matter what the accumulations increase. You don't invest a single euro, and you're still doing it so that even before the process of that hep division starts firing people. It shows you as a person who runs a system, an elemental incompetence to do so. And not only in HEP, but also in other public sectors as we have seen, and they are also preparing for the parachutes that a colleague was talking about today, in the framework of a decisive contract in the event of early termination, so-called. Management contracts that seem to have not yet been controlled either in the public sector or in various public services. They're nice parachutes, they're not Ministers, they're not Prime Ministers, they're MPs that we don't talk, but still these parachutes work in these various public services. And to go back to, the HDZ predecessor actually said well, the issue of this national, economic strategy and the issue of industrial policy that the Republic of Croatia still does not have. I, when I went to a mere school like most of you, taught us that there are primary, secondary and tertiary activities and that we are in trouble then because we have a lot of primary, a lot of secondary and a little tertiary activities and now 20 or 30 years later we see that we have been deceived, that we are in problems because our secondary activity has decreased, the territorial activity has grown and the primary has decreased and that we have actually been taught wrong looks. And that those countries are making economic growth for those who have a strong secondary industry and not for those who have tertiary activities. They manage to survive if they move production somewhere outside and extract profits but Croatia can't do it. Croatia must be based on its production, its employment. As a person, I would support that form of flexibility, labour markets that would allow for the inclusion in the work of that great resource of people we still have today, which is outside the labour market today. Much preferable in various forms that today are actually institutionally and legislatively not possible because we actually have a rigid model of employment and we have this rigid eight-hour working time and it is not easy to work for example today, for example three jobs per three hours. It is very difficult today to perform or work four hours in the public sector for four hours in the private sector. Why not? Three hours in the public sector, another ten hours in the private sector. So if he can and if someone needs to and if he wants to work and wants to make money, he should be given the opportunity to do so. In doing so, I don't think of any way to violate the rights of workers or bring workers into an unequal position, simply to open the space that many today who are excluded from the labour market and a good part of the pensioners of whom today are still many of them working because we don't forget what we sometimes have to boast about 450 thousand people with disabilities in this country, by a variety of amazing categories but we have those who can, too, can't really do but the part that those who might still be able to work for an hour, two or three days. So let's be honest with ourselves that this question is, in my opinion, modest, much more significant than this story of investment. Investments in Croatia were not even in those golden years when they were high, but it was, in fact, the biggest point of the opening of various shopping centres that actually increased those amounts in 2006, 2007. 2008 However, these were actually the construction of shopping centres, so these were not some investments on which this society and this state should continue to base their development and their growth. And in the end what do you say? Maybe you could use an already famous quote that's been spinning around our media these days, because people fat trust ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32963	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32964	Well, you've explained these primary, secondary and tertiary activities finely, but that was this one you went to this Swiss-oriented education. It wasn't them who taught us wrong, but then it was that the state was developed if it had developed a primary, secondary, especially the tertiary future of the former country. Unfortunately, we were left alone in this, and in the list of all these words that marked this closer history of Croatia, you forgot another key word, which is survival. Before the election, we have promises and after four years of election, we have a mere survival. And Vinkovic himself would've jumped into his mouth just so I could do it, that this data that I'm about to say isn't true, that we have almost 400 thousand unemployment, that we have a decline in economic production of 7.8%, that we have a decline in gross national income, that we don't see a way out of this tunnel, no matter who's going to light up, that even spending on a small drop, which is enough to say that citizens are hard to live, that we have 800 thousand pensioners who can't survive, that we have workers who still work and don't receive wages, etc. I'd be happy to jump in my mouth if that wasn't true. And I don't want to defend this mildly verbose data because these data are true. And finally, the fact is, show me the cranes, show me the cranes, show me the investments and show me the new open production in the Republic of Croatia. It's gone, and the house is destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32965	Thank you. A colleague but you've replicated a representative of your club who didn't say you were jumping into your mouth, etc. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32966	Look, it's our job that we can't get ourselves out of that responsibility that we can't say what's wrong but try to say what we think or make a suggestion that might help those who can influence it to change something there. And that's our job, regardless of whether they were in power in the opposition, so that's what I'm trying to do in my discussions constructively to say what I mean and try to help some general debate that's going on over it because no matter what the black scenario we can't escape from this space. We have nowhere to go or we intend to go. They don't have any of our children's intentions either. I hope they don't leave. So what we need and what is our obligation and as the people who live here and as a representative and as a parent to try those of our own frameworks in which we act to help that space, this homeland, however possible, and to be a better country for life, so how God gives us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32967	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32968	Well, a colleague of yours, you've put the thesis that it's not an investment problem but employment or employment, which is basically chicken or eggs, which is, first of all, how do you think they can be realised by a new employee if there's no investment development, unless normal if it's not working how it's done so far. And here I read that you also do it in Slavonia with public service employment. Thus, for 20 years in Croatia, there was no real investment policy at all. We've got some 360 in principle, realistically maybe about 50 that are really equipped in the right way, completely non-coordinated with different land prices, different obligations of municipalities, cities, counties to execute, obligations to entrepreneurs who are willing to invest in the area in terms of infrastructure resolution. We know investment according to spatial plans, especially in Dalmatia with large tourist areas, desert hectares in fact, nothing has been done except a wasteful re-use, various trams of changes in ownership, land, change of purpose. Therefore, this government is working in a way that prepares strategically. And what does that mean, strategically, you asked the same question? And strategically, the impact that is overall on the employment of a particular investment, which affects the development of a particular sector, whether export orientation, whether it is realised in areas or islands or underdeveloped areas, is all part of this story, what is something strategic that matters what tomorrow will be defined. And what's crucial is the government has set these conditions and instruments. These amendments to the law are only part of the fact that they could finally be realised and that they could reduce unemployment or increase employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32969	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32970	In this part of what you're saying, there's nothing special to add except that you know when it comes to the concept of strategy, that concept of strategy is often used. You know what a strategy is? The strategy is that vision that embraces a broad range. It's not a series of measures you'll take. It's an operative you have between that and the concept of tactics. The strategy do you have a vision of whether you have an idea whether you really have a broad concept of what you intend to do with what you have at your disposal regardless of the company, whether it's your family, whether it's your city or whether it's the company you run. I don't think you see those strategies, let alone the citizens of this country. And when it comes to hiring that party, you know I'm not gonna tell you anything, you're the one who showed it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32971	Replica Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32972	Here's my dear colleague Đurovic, I must admit that you have confused me quite a bit with this debate of yours. You first asked the most important question of how many people work. So how many people work is the closest thing to how much investment we have. I don't know maybe we should further explain the concept of investment itself, that investment means investing in some production capacity, investing in some kind of tourist capacity, investing in some kind of drive that means hiring new people. The whole point of the law is that we encourage employment and all these incentives that are listed in all articles of the law go to encourage employment. And the other part where you confused me a lot about this part of Article 21 when you said that this article was quite a bit of a synergy to you. This article, I think, is a major progress since the current law has prescribed that the government will be able to decide through a regulation on strategic investments, and now a whole new law will be made that will pass a wide public debate and that we here in the Parliament will discuss in particular. So it must be a much better and more transparent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32973	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32974	The current law spoke of investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia. and here we are talking about projects of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, so that's the difference. It is not the same concept of something that is of some interest to the Republic of Croatia and something that is of strategic interest. So what's strategically predominant is that it's really something vital. And as for the number of jobs or the number of people who work, it's not just a matter of investment, it's a question of how many people will stay in HEP for a year, it's a question of how many people will stay in the INA for several years, how many people will stay in the public administration? Are we gonna save Dioki? Are we gonna save Dina? how we will be placed in pre-fashion settlement procedures according to at least a hundred thousand vulnerable jobs currently in the economy. So it's not just a matter of investment. And the other thing is, we're gonna open up a space for opening new jobs. But what we're going to do is we're going to keep existing jobs and we have an answer to how we still run and self-employment and people just to get and where there's space involved in the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32975	We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32976	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. So this is one of the obvious technical changes in the law, but since this law should have been passed, and it was not passed until this change of law this technical change points us to something far more devastating for Croatia, far worse and it is unfortunately the Government in the past year and a few days did not know what to do. They're totally misjudged, and that's what article 21. And I'll talk about that later. They're misjudged and assessed because someone thought it was enough to write this piece of paper to say inside that someone was going to get some benefits, and that the minister would make a rule and then not three months after the law went into effect, the minister didn't make the rules, investments happened. And that's the fact that you can't get away from a colleague and a colleague. Because if the government knew what they wanted to do, then practically 10 or 15 days after this law was published in the National Journal, the minister came out with a rulebook and all those who would like to invest in something that was across various institutions and spaces would be encouraged to use these investment privileges. The key question, however, is the key error in Croatia that we constantly think someone will invest because we give him some kind of relief, a privilege. It's a total delusion. It's just a relief to someone who has an idea to do something and create something. So the state gave him some relief to get to it. And if that were the case for co-workers and colleagues that this government knew what would be done, if something had happened in the area of investment then it wouldn't have happened last night that dramatic interview of the Prime Minister, who so dramatically announced that wages had to be reduced 3%, had not occurred certain forecasts. He just didn't say, despite the fact that we've increased our taxes and thus improved the revenue side of the budget, but we can't keep the deficit in the defined frameworks, but it just happened and we have to cut the salaries 3%. That this is the best confirmation today and the finance minister who said that wages are cutting 3% because certain investment processes have not occurred in Croatia. Why is that a problem? Well, because it's a missed economic policy that took us away in 2012. Unfortunately, since none of these investments are in the public tender procedure. We've already been practically lost for this failed and poor economic policy for 8.9 months this year. Because if a public tender is now being opened, while all this is going on, this, that, as he enters a job that should do something, while the effects of it would be seen in the economy if something starts to create, happen, hire some people, mechanization etc. You can only see that in the fourth quarter of this year. So, because of the lack of an economic strategy, because of the lack of a vision which, unfortunately, with the industry in the Republic of Croatia, we lost in 2013. Confirmation that this happened to Croatia was an interview last night by the Prime Minister. You don't need to be too economically smart or educated, man is no matter how much he tried to avoid and escape, but he said clearly we can't pay the wages, even though three months ago he and his ministers here claimed that the salaries, payouts are something that isn't questionable. What can we expect in a month or two? Also a dramatic interview at which the Prime Minister will say you can't even get the pensioners... Miranda Mrsic explained it a month ago, Minister Mrsic so arrogantly said that what we are talking about, nothing comes to question payment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There it is. It's here now. So, a technical change that shows us, unfortunately, that the government didn't know what they were going to do, and if she knew what they were going to do, we would have a rule that was in accordance with this law. As far as Article 21 is concerned, Article 21 clearly states that the one who proposed the law did not know what he wanted to achieve with that Article 21. Because when you look at the old article 21 and you look at the new ones, they're diametrically opposite, they have nothing to do with each other. Talking about some kind of investment like this and talking about strategic investment is heaven and earth. One small country like Croatia how much strategic investment can it have? Whether a strategic investment at a micro-level might be a hotel at sea or something. But in order for us to know what a strategic investment is, which the government will be able to make a decision on these strategic investments tomorrow, then someone should tell us what criteria strategic investment will be made under. And saying that strategic investment will give someone the opportunity to have national treasures, which are water, forests and other infrastructure projects, is simply not good. Well, no one normal in this assembly is going to say that we shouldn't allow the government to rule out a hectare, two or three if it's supposed to satisfy some kind of investment. But also no one normal in this assembly will give Bianca support to anyone to rule out 100 ha of forests or hectares of lakes or water supply sites, etc. And you can put it all through Article 21. So you can watch him serve it so that what happened doesn't happen. We can talk about one practical example of IKEA, that someone is messing with practically 3 years for a piece of agricultural land that was supposed to be replaced with the county. County to play here, and on the second corner gets a second piece because County is a nice god anyway. Because someone found it appropriate to screw up for two years. Or highway Zagreb – Sisak. Someone's looking for some kind of unsuspecting field money they're not working at all. Now that's what needs to be prevented. But that's why there's that law of expropriation or what we're going to call it because it clearly knows that it's a hectare or two or half a hectare as long as it takes to round up a certain investment. However, as article 21 was undefined in the old law, so in this new law he is dissipating to God. Someone can declare it down there for, say, wind power plants, this or that and half of the Proklan Lake to someone in a concession, so you fuck 'cause the government made that decision. If that's not the intention, if someone doesn't want to be brought into something like that, then why don't they define this together. And let me finish. So, colleagues and colleagues, no one in this House will raise their hands against a law that in any way facilitates and reduces administrative barriers both to domestic and foreign investors. So it is in everyone's interest that whoever has the money to come, to invest them in Croatia, because it is only those who can create jobs. No one else can open them and no one will be against that sort of thing. But when you pass one law five, six months ago and you say you're going to pass a rule and then you don't bring a rulebook, but after five, six months you're proposing to amend that law. It's clear you don't know what you're going to do. If you change one of the key laws for investing administrative barriers to investment Article 21, but it completely changes it with both definition and purpose and attitude then it clearly says that you did not know what you wanted to do. But I repeat the clearest message that the ruling Kukuriku coalition did not know what to do last night's interview and the Prime Minister's regrettables, which suggests that the salaries of public and state administration employees be reduced because they did not have the courage to implement structural reforms. Because structural reforms are the only basis for certain expenditures to be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32977	They're following the replicas. Replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32978	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with you in support of, of course, law and investment, but what I disagree with in your debate is that this government doesn't know what and how. This government, after reminding the Agency for Investments and Investments and Exports in 2010 was abolished, returned to the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, formed a team that works and works with entrepreneurs. At this point, 50 investment projects are being processed by the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. For the public sector, CEIP is formed, i.e. the Energy and Investment Centre, which monitors the public sector. This law was, of course, the law of communication and the laws of stimulant absolute and, in accordance with all those requirements of the Association of Employers and all those who want good Croatia and investment and of course, what is essential is that it is necessary to pass the additional law, the Law on Strategic Investments which I believe we will have very quickly here in the Croatian Parliament which will clearly define and the criteria that these are strategic investments and clearly speed up those procedures that have been shown during this period. Because what we inherited, we inherited it, with all the will, desire, knowledge, expertise and strength of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the state through local and regional self-government and their barriers and blockades that give investors and this law could not have been implemented without prejudice to the rules of the Strategic Investment Act. And that's the key that needs to open up space for these existing investments that we have to realize without talking about the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32979	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32980	Thank you very much. As much as you object to that regulation, compare the amount of investment in monetary form in 2011 and 2012 to the 2010 law, so you will see that it is something that simply cannot be challenged. In 2012, it shows that, unfortunately, you didn't do anything. The strategic investment law is now the end of the second month he is not in the parliamentary procedure. So we can only adopt it there, it can enter into force at the end of 3rd month 2013. When will he enter practical application? This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. And there is no effect of that law in 2013, which is two years of your term of office. But you forget no matter how much you don't like it that the second and third quarter of 2011 had positive economic trends, the fourth quarter was actually zero for the reasons that the elections were expensive. You have continued the economic recovery measures until you bring in your own measures that will be better quality than that you would probably have far better and better quality macroeconomic indicators and your economic growth would probably not have fallen in 2012. So these are facts that you don't need to run from. They are what they are, let's try together to take certain measures that will simply lead to this number of unemployed being reduced, and also that we will not be in a position to, as wages are now taken down for employees of state and public services so that tomorrow God does not start talking about reducing pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32981	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32982	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you've said well that they're not really pure definitions and concepts and you don't really know what a strategic project of strategic interest is, which is a project of interest for the Republic of Croatia. How important it is for the government to create a stimulating investment environment that says that from the 10th month until today, sublegal acts under this law have not been passed. But of course it is not clear what a strategic investment is, which is an object of strategic interest because there is no basic document, there is no Economic Development Strategy, there is no State Property Management Strategy, and we are announcing laws that will very much affect the existing legislation of the availability of state assets, and that we do not have a whole document with vision and objectives. Here's the reason for a legal rasom. I'm a lawyer, I'm watching this, so I don't see why all these strategic investments and strategic projects that you're announcing with this law now in an amendment that's going to be passed by some special law which obliges the legislator to do something in advance, why would he have to be special, why couldn't he be within this single law? After all, a potential investor knows where to look, not to be lost again in the woods of texts. I wanted to ask the promoter why he determines the censorships of euro coins and kuna equivalentness. I thought there was some particular reason, but I see in this law that's in some discussion about strategic investment that property censorship is determined in kuna. So one total inconsistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32983	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32984	That fellow Lovrin, because watch when you have a vague legal definition, then it happens to you that someone should remember that those who haven't paid dividends for years, but they, they kept that money in the firm, paid taxes in order, kept it in the firm and practically with them, and it was both crafts and funds for investments, but someone remembers and says they don't need to be taxed, retroactively. If one political option does so twice in 10 years, it was the first time in 2000 with a protective interest and today there are judicial disputes, large companies in the Republic of Croatia that have received litigation. The government of the Republic of Croatia will need to pay hundreds of millions of damages and now you also make a message to entrepreneurs, and then on the other hand you offer some small, small relief financially to invest. Who's coming to invest in the Republic of Croatia if you're sending a message, okay, today we're going to charge a tax like this, but how are you going to pay two years from now, it's not up to you, it's up to us. We don't understand one thing, that the stability of a flexible system that often doesn't change is far more important than some feet. People simply want to know what and how much they will pay in some future times, and that is what is wrong with Croatia. Because if he had that stability then we wouldn't have to pass special laws to encourage investment of this or that, but simply a system that has to follow it would follow. And if we had a system like that, then such a system would breed strategies. And since we don't have such a system, then we don't have a strategy, and then we resort to solutions like this that, unfortunately, can be abused tomorrow. I'm not saying they're gonna abuse themselves, but I'm also an opponent to give a little bit of space to someone to abuse, because unfortunately that area, then the gray one becomes extremely large.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32985	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32986	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I think, I agree with you that the Government does not know what and how to do it and the key argument is that there is no strategy defining strategic objectives. What should then, in fact, be carried out in a consistent manner, that it is simply wrong to talk about strategic investments, should be talked about strategic objectives, not strategic investments. And there's a purely methodological simple one mistake done, is if you have a strategic goal then every investor with 50, 500 or million and 500 units of something invests in these strategic goals. This kind of mental set that comes from strategic investment simply imposes that it will be one that will be the main one, and everyone else will be secondary or irrelevant. With one completely different methodology and then what you were saying about the measures that should then be done to facilitate it is simply a matter of management and management technology, which is imposed on us and this law, and you have warned that it does not exist, imposes as the main thing and escapes the key in this law, as well as in all other laws, that the government simply has no vision of Croatia's development, has no defined objectives and therefore cannot propose realistic measures to come out of this economic and political crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32987	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32988	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Tudjman, I will also read, for the sake of us and my colleague from the ruling Kukuriku coalition, how article 21 practically reads up to this change review, so I will read what is proposed today and if someone finds some connection between the two articles I take off his hat. So, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia can determine an investment project, declared of interest for the Republic of Croatia criteria for determining the project of interest for the Republic of Croatia and how these projects are implemented, as well as how potential investors are attracted within the meaning of this article will be determined by the Government by a regulation, to determine by the Government of the Republic of Croatia." We haven't seen that regulation until today. But today it is proposed to amend this article, which reads as follows: "The government of the Republic of Croatia can determine an investment project, a particular investment project to be declared of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. Application procedure, evaluation procedure, selection and implementation of strategic investment projects, availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia.", this is important, it's now being added to this new law compared to that old law. So it gives someone the opportunity to have real estate. But not half a hectare, but a hundred acres, anything can happen. It says: "The availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia is an ideal concession in connection with the implementation of strategic investment projects, the issue of administrative acts in connection with the implementation of strategic investment projects, as well as other issues related to this, will be determined by a special law.". So this is where investors were supposed to be attracted by a regulation, and this is where we're going to do so. Strategic investment is endowed with the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia, but this time we will ask for cover from the Croatian West and we will regulate it by law. I mean, let's not be ridiculous, if someone has a strategy to do this, they can't write two articles like this in four months, so different. It's a fact and there's no need for us to argue about it now, it's just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32989	Thank you very much. Thank you, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32990	But colleagues and colleagues, we lost one year and unfortunately we lose another.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32991	But we'll discuss it when the law comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32992	Which is not controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32993	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32994	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here, my colleague Shuker kind of broke my line, because I was just about to quote that article and I wanted to ask you why you actually have, why you with it, why do you have a problem with him? You said yourself that the one before was undefined, not defined enough and not to the end. We voted it together with 199 votes in favour. This one goes one step further, he's an improved story, he's more detailed about what we're going to do as a capital proposal, so he's already going public, but when there's a final proposal before the government and before the Parliament, under all the lights we have here, but primarily in front of the lights of the public, he brings us all together. And in this law there will be nothing written, which this Parliament does not vote in any case and what is far more important, it will not write in that law, nor can it write any more, nor will the Croatian Government exercise what it already cannot, which it under some of its powers, which some other units of local self-government can according to its powers and concessions, etc. So there's no speculation, there's no need for some speculation about some major sale of national assets, etc. all that can be prescribed by law enforcement at all and so far the units of local self-government and government have been able through various laws only with one small difference that seemed to be in five hundred places without full control of the public and this time I say and without practically in one place together with the parliamentary decision and this time and final decision will again, once we have put all the procedure together, it will again come under the full attention of the Croatian public at the meetings of the Government and it will make any strategic decisions. So there's absolutely nothing that can happen that we all don't want together and cry out for investment. When I was preparing this debate, I wanted to actually read the quotes of all and the positional and opposition factors of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia as much as we cry for investment. This is the most transparent story possible, but it's about the law when the time comes for what you say, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32995	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32996	I'm glad we agreed that the government didn't know what they were going to do because now you said you were explaining something. If it had happened a month after this law was passed, I could still say it, but I will repeat by a regulation you wanted to attract investors, by law you want to sell out Croatia, and unfortunately you arrived last night at that flyover where he had to admit that he was going to cut wages because there were no investments and that's one closed circle and don't look that we're going to be your opponents of this law. We'll be your associates here. After all, the club will probably suggest some conclusion. I hope you will support that conclusion. And if your strategic investment law is bad, we will offer something that is better and which at the end of 2011 led to positive economic trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32997	Maybe it'd be better if it was 2008, 2009. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32998	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said that we at the HDZ Club and that all MPs would support the law on which any article is discussed, the article of the law will improve the investment climate in Croatia. I think this law, which permeates the debate so far, only comes down to one thing and that's a message to pass a new law. It seems to me because of this new law almost all of us who came to the debate and talked about it because it has already appeared practically in public. So the fundamental message of amending the law that should encourage investment in Croatia is that the government is preparing a new law that will now create wonders, which will enable strategic investment, which will enable investment to be launched in Croatia, to create jobs, to start production, etc., etc. On that threshold of this permanent government promise that something like this law will happen, I read today somewhere in the media that today or tomorrow a tour of government ministers begins, five ministers from the economic portfolio who should now explain what is good throughout Croatia and is not actually realised, as if our entrepreneurs, employers themselves do not know what and how they could do if the government provided the right measures to encourage it. Because apart from the investments the government is calling for and welcome in Croatia, existing entrepreneurs need to work, make it easier for them, that they can be cheaper, that working in Croatia is cheaper than it is today. Therefore, the government should not try to use pyronomic methods in doing so, something great is about to happen, now something is going to be done but it needs to be done concretely. I think the government could pass that law that she announced and with it it's simply this article that we're changing today that we're putting out of force and that would be a finished story.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u32999	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33000	Thank you very much. So my colleague Bacic reminds me of the Bosnian marathon from the ruling coalition. A bunch of marathons waiting to start with a gun or cut the tape and they're moving. So listening to our ministers and listening to colleagues from the ruling coalition at the border of Croatia. A bunch of investors are waiting for this bill to be passed and then they're coming to invest. It's a total delusion. It's a total delusion. Because capital is a scary beast. If you do not offer a stable tax system, if you do not offer a stable political system, then the stability of the government and if you do not offer it legal certainty it will not come here, but will come elsewhere. And all the provisions of this law, they unfortunately say we're not offering them legal certainty. Because Article 21 speaks best of it. And I repeat my colleagues and colleagues no one who feels Croatia as a country to be invested in, after all, in which one can be earned because everyone invests to make money. Not for someone to give money away. Save the God of him who comes to invest to help you, for he will destroy both you and himself. He's the best guy who comes in to invest to make some money. I repeat that we have tried our best before you, and so have you, that you have continued to remove certain barriers, all of these laws should simply not be required. Because it wouldn't make sense, because if the state administration is doing its job, if the local administration is doing its job, if we have spatial documentation, then what do we need these special laws for? So we slap ourselves, and then we pass the law, and then, in accordance with that law, we don't lay down a regulation that brings those investors who are waiting for a low start to go and we don't get a rule based on which they're going to be encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33001	We're continuing the debate. It's my friend Holly's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33002	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support this final draft of the law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of investment and the improvement of the investment environment, primarily because I believe that Article three relating to Article 21 is a good step and that it is better if we need to define strategic investments to do so in the Parliament rather than at government level. Because I think that this raises the transparency of the overall procedure and the overall democracy of the procedures on these extremely important projects. I have to admit that I'm a little surprised with the debate between my colleagues and my colleagues at the HDZ Club who are now suddenly opposed to the adoption of a lex specialist that refers to strategic investment projects because this law that we're discussing today is actually a lex specialis relating to investment and investment promotion, which means that the previous government has also recognised the capitulation of incompetence and ineffectiveness of the state administration. Because if we had a functionally efficient and efficient state administration, we wouldn't need this kind of lex specialis or the kind that we're discussing today or the kind that we're about to discuss, and it's about strategic investment projects and that's what the fact is. Because if we had a functional state administration that we had officers doing our job then those laws that covered the rules for some procedures would be enough for us to implement projects in a relatively short time in a way that equals the rules apply to everyone. Unfortunately, we do not have such a situation, and that is why we are using funds like this law that you have proposed in the previous term as a law that we are about to discuss and that is unfortunately a fact. I think it's an obligation for every government to work first and foremost on reforming the state administration. Because we can have the best laws in the world if we have a state administration that isn't able to enforce those laws we won't do anything. Of course, we in Parliament must go towards making as best and quality laws as possible, but I definitely believe that we must do something about the efficiency of the state administration. And it's not true that there's nothing you can do about it. How do you raise efficiency in private companies? So you're introducing project management systems. Well, our employees, I think, are working on certain projects, is it so complicated to introduce a project management system, and then you end up estimating all your employees based on what their work performance is and what the quality of their work is? That's what's important. And those who aren't good then will have to leave such a administration, and those who are good will probably be valorized because they're doing a good job. I think it's possible to do something like that. When we talk about the law relating to Article 3 or Article 21 of the current law, I support the adoption of such a law because I think it is important that we have some idea of what our strategic investment projects are. The law we actually had the text of a draft bill that we had the opportunity to see in the public debate I don't think it's entirely on the trail of meeting that goal, and I don't think it's a good way for investors to run for their projects that the government can then declare strategic projects. I think the procedure should be significantly different that the government should say what strategic investment projects are and that these strategic investment projects should indeed be those that are important to us because of the satisfaction of certain things that we need to meet towards the EU and those projects that relate directly to raising the quality of life, human standards, which means that these should be projects relating to road construction, to municipal infrastructure, to waste management, perhaps technology, raising certain technological preconditions, and so on, but I'm not sure that they should be projects of entrepreneurs in the narrow economic sense of that word. I think that by singleing out such projects on the basis of some level of investment or some other criteria, a rather unpleasant situation could be created for some other investors who do not meet such conditions, and it is known that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia must guarantee all equality before the law. And for this reason, I think it is crucial in terms of encouraging investment in Croatia to make our state administration an efficient service for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to pass quality laws that will throw out all of those unnecessary bureaucratic procedures that burden some projects and that the rules of the game must apply equally to all investors, whether they are private, whether they are by the principle of public-private partnership, whether this is the state, means the rules of the game must apply to everyone and that is the only way that we do something in Croatia in terms of economic growth and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33003	Thank you very much. We have four replicas first reported by Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, therefore, we are in the HDZ Law Club, which enables investment which enables the government from the budget to grant subsidies to entrepreneurs especially if these investments and investments go to less developed areas than the law provides. And there's no dispute about it. We are, and you are mainly your exhibiting has been more referring to that other law which should follow this law, so the Law on Strategic Investment Projects. If anyone in this assembly but you had supported that law, I would understand that. But you who from day one advocate every project and investment that influences the environment by building your investments, and if the public were excluded, then I would understand such a debate. In fact, if we're talking about the same law, and I'm guessing I'm talking about the same law, it's this Investment Projects Act, as you know, that excludes the obligation to adopt implementing spatial plans, so implementing space editing documents like... such as the DPU for whose adoption must involve the public in the local self-government unit, why a strict procedure is envisaged, why all citizens must be involved through the Institute of Public Discussion and Public Audit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law, if we're talking about the same law, puts it all aside, says that for any investment, and we don't know which because it can be any such law and we're going to predict such a public debate, that possibility that people who live and citizens living in that area from that public debate are simply unacceptable to me. Therefore, we cannot talk about a law that will, absolutely aside, remove or put aside everything we have democratically done when it comes to the citizens' statement that you have now accepted and commended such a law through this exhibition of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33005	Thank you. We have an answer. My colleagues, Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33006	I don't think you understood me very well. I think it's the wrong approach to go lex specialists to solve the problems that exist in the system. And I just drew attention to the fact that the law that you proposed and we supported in the previous term in Parliament is also a lex specialis, as will be lex specialis and the Strategic Investments Act. And I don't think that this is the right way to go through state administration reform and through roof laws that regulate certain procedures go to simplifying procedures and that the rules of the game must apply equally to everyone. But obviously given the fact that we're not in a position to make our state administration an efficient public service, then we have to take this kind of lex specialise. But today we are not discussing the draft bill that we had the opportunity to listen to and ultimately read on the pages of the Ministry of Economy. I will not support such a law if it is in such a form. I hope it won't be in that format. And I made it clear that I believe that it is the government's obligation for the Republic of Croatia to give a list of strategic projects that must be in terms of meeting public interest, not particular, private, economic interest, and that this is the path that we should follow if it is of course important to create a waste management centre within a relatively short period of time, let us go with a strategic investment in that section in order to meet that goal. And as for these implementing documents, if they're ballast, then I think they should be removed in general from the roof law covering that area, and not then I mean for some investments, we don't need the DPO, and for other investments we need the DPU to tell us. That's not the right approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33007	Time. Thank you. Next replica, Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33008	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Holly, with the greatest number of things you've said, I actually agree. The fact that there are lex specialis laws testifys that something in the system's functioning is not good. I would understand the existence of lex specialis law. The one we're changing today when we're bringing it in, precisely because this is his fourth version, and because we have some experience that this law takes out of these benches is a warning that it's a very generous law that we can hardly even pay for if investors could mass-up to these benefits offered here. So there are some obstacles that we're trying to bypass these lex specialis laws. And then why don't you go into the process of systematically changing the legal barriers. Which prevents the government from going into the process of systematically changing obstacles and possibly learning something from the experience of the predecessors. That would be some continuity of the state administration. That's right, the state administration may not be functioning effectively and it's probably these lex specialis laws testifying. But then she's reduced by a linear pay of 3%. And how do you think this will affect the functioning of the state administration? We also advocate a systematic reform that will tie the results of work to pay, pay with the results of work. And then why don't you go into such processes if you're responsible for the government and if you've taken over that power because of the mistakes of the predecessors. Here they are, draft laws that change the way state administration rewards exist. The pay grade, the grade, the pay grade. There are also some meanings of previous actions in the area That's actually what's so vague about your exposure, because you're the government. [[/Intruder Batinić: Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33009	Thank you. Time's up. We have a colleague Holly's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33010	Well, I hope so, and I expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will go into serious reform of the state administration system given the fact that all the governments of the Republic of Croatia have not been very serious about this problem, so all of us who have been in the position of ministers or who have worked in the ministries and have been in the system I think we are aware of not only how to say the ineffectiveness and irresponsibility of certain civil servants, a little less than what is often called petty civil corruption, which is often not quite so small of civil corruption. And I really don't think we're going to have any positive steps until we make a thorough reform of the state administration system. However, you were also aware that you had failed to reform the state administration. Apparently this government is also aware, and some things must be done, investment must be launched. These are fire measures. I'm in favour of strategic investment for us to meet some vital goals. I'm primarily interested in this environmental protection thing, so wastewater purifiers, waste management centres, and so on because I'm afraid with this kind of red tape that doesn't respect regulations, we won't be able to do it and then we'll pay for the penalty. And I think it's the strategic interest of the state not to pay for the penalty and not to burden our citizens with it. But I definitely think that the only correct way to make a systematic reform of the state administration and finally the rules of the game are starting to apply equally to everyone, i.e. to start implementing the laws of whatever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33011	Thank you. We have Anna Lovrin's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33012	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues Holly, I agree with this first finding of yours, so one good work of the state administration could produce the same effects under all existing laws. But it's a closed circle. So we don't have the results, then we're passing special laws that we think we're going to speed it up. Don't think that it's easy for the state administration and for the judiciary that every few people have to face new amended laws. Teach them, study them, apply them. So it further complicates this administrative procedure. We passed some special laws, of course already in our mandate, it was the Law on Investment Encouragement, so this Law amending the Law on Construction Conditions, etc., it would be interesting whether the ministries have any indicators and data. How many laws you have been attracted to, how many new jobs have been opened because some investors have been guaranteed that they will get all the permits within 45 days, and some others do not. How, what results are and whether these so desired results are obtained because the silence of the administration has contributed to someone, and there is no provision for an ordinary citizen to support the silence of the administration, etc., etc. On the special laws, that special law I was talking about is that we are passing one law which states that we are going to pass another law, by confusing investors and persons who have to apply it, there is no reason that the provisions on strategic investment are not in this law and, in principle, and important if something is not intended to be hidden and all those provisions that we saw in the public debate under this Strategic Investment Act are actually matter that must go into the sublaw. Which body will the request be submitted to at the State Administration? What will be written in this law, which will be answered by the state administration in its reply, are such details that are not suitable for legal regulation at all. And one more thing is that it is important to be a strategy and that strategy will know what the goals are, and then investors will see if their project meets these objectives and whether it is a strategic project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33013	Thank you, colleague Lovrin. We have a reply to the replica, Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33014	Dear colleague Lovrin... on strategic investment projects or we will push these strategic investment projects into this law. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] I think it's absolutely whatever. But I think it is a good thing that the provision of Article 21 has been amended to decide on strategic projects at the level of the Government by a regulation and I think it is a positive step forward that the Assembly will discuss this as a legislative body of the Republic of Croatia and a body that actually determines the public interest in the Republic of Croatia. And I think it would be good if we were to pass the Strategic Investment Projects Act to go along with that law and propose a list of strategic projects that will be implemented in this way. You say he can't, I don't know if he can or can't, but here he is. It's up to me to say what I think as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33015	Thank you. And the last replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33016	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues, as far as the state administration's efficiency is concerned, I think we've all agreed nicely here, but it's not just about the efficiency of the state administration. All these laws, I think I've already talked about it, and the laws that come these on strategic investments where the discussions are already being held, and here's the part of this law because it's part of this law that's related to local and regional self-government. So when we talk about environmental protection, then you know very well that the regional waste center in Split-Dalmatia County is envisaged at the location Lečevica space-planski solved in the municipality as well, but 5 years Split-Dalmatia County does not want to buy land. Why? I don't know. Some additional documentation is also needed to be made, projects are even prepared for a good part of the projects for and European funds, and what do we all think about how we're going to handle it? So only in a way that we define it as a strategic investment and that the state through its Energy and Investment Center takes faith in this project and completes it to the end in a way that, of course, respects all the laws that are needed and protecting the environment and, of course, by doing possible and additional tests. Likewise, for example. On the island of Solta, we have an example of an investor who bought absolutely all the tourist prices that were not agricultural, who got stuck with the municipality and the county, and what should we do now? The 170m-euro investment is to let us just say it's somebody there, isn't it? At this point, the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness handles 50 projects worth 5 billion euros, 10 projects are already at a good stage to go into realisation. Therefore, this government knows what and how not only should wait for those at the border to enter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33017	Thank you. We have a colleague Holly's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33018	Well, my colleague and I agree with you, and while I was Minister of Environmental Protection, we've just made changes and additions to the Waste Management Plan, given that for years, a whole series of these projects have been blocked and they haven't been realized, and I have to say that I've had a lot of these projects and I haven't been overly impressed or impressed. But given the fact that we have obligations to the EU, that it is better to do something than to do nothing, I am afraid that the only way to solve these problems with certain types, so I may now be using a harsh word of autocratic behaviour because units of local and regional self-government have shown that they are absolutely incapable of solving this problem that is extremely vital to the state. And in order for such a thing to be done, then you, not in any way, must say by some kind of decree that the centres will go, in which way these centres will be realized in order to solve a very important life issue and thus improve the situation in the environment, and also to take up the fact that Croatia is not paying for a penalty in terms of unrealization of such projects. And here I agree with you, but I think the biggest problem with the Strategic Investment Projects Act, which was actually this text of the draft bill, is that it's not very well affected how these strategic investment projects should be chosen. Because I think there should be a clearly underlined limit on what might be a strategic investment project at all, and I really don't think it could be some chewing gum factory, just because the value of that 700 million kuna is, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33019	Thank you. We'll continue the debate, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33020	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, we've been discussing this law for a long time, and it seems to me that we're discussing more about the law that we're expecting, than the one we discussed three months or four months ago, it seems to me that in October this law that we're changing today has been passed. I don't know what has changed, to come up with this bill except for what I just said, to announce this law a new law that should solve all problems when it comes to investing in the Republic of Croatia. But even at this point, we keep talking about special laws, about the laws of lex specialis. I would just say that, in addition to this law that we are changing today, which is the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and the improvement of the Investment Environment, we also adopted the Small Economy Development Act, so we passed the Investment and Competitiveness Agency Act last year, and we also passed the Law on the establishment of the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre last year. In the meantime, the previous government has also passed the Law on the conduct and conditions of construction to encourage investment, etc. etc. So, at this point, there are several laws that wanted to encourage investment in the Republic of Croatia to now realize that these, that such investments really do not exist. A little while ago, my colleague Shuker, and I think colleague Dalic, told me that the laws we're talking about today, that we're going to pass, the Strategic Investments Act, are not going to change the investment environment significantly in the Republic of Croatia. As much as we try to cross this law through the entire state administration, trying to remove individual procedures and procedures will not significantly speed up investment in the Republic of Croatia. Without long-term systematic entry into any law which, in which we find that there are indeed administrative obstacles, that there are administrative barriers in it, we will not significantly speed up investment in the Republic of Croatia by any special law. I think we're deluded if we expect that with the announced law, which I think is, by the way, unconstitutional, which is in line with a number of laws, which are in line with the achieved, achieved level of adoption of certain administrative acts, etc. etc. in the Republic of Croatia, we will do nothing with it except cause numerous disputes in the Croatian public, division of the law. Today, it has been a number of times that the government or any government body, the commission that writes in that law, should determine strategic projects. Mr. Tudjman was just talking about it. Well, I don't think the government can prescribe all the strategic projects that are needed in Croatia. In order to establish something that the strategic project requires it to come from some document, a strategy that will determine what the objectives are, which will meet, the implementation of a series of projects in Croatia. And all those projects that happen are strategic projects. Just now, my colleague Holly was talking about the waste management strategy. Every waste management centre in Croatia is a strategic project, there is nothing more to be invented. We have previously made a strategy, and we have recently commented on it, the development of nautical tourism where these marinas can be built, was it of 50 or 500 bonds if it was built where the spatial-planic documentation was provided, each marina was one of 50 or 500 circuits of a strategic project, and there is no need for it to make any necessary, special decision from any government body, from the Government, from ministers or any other commission. It is a grave delusion that with the determination of 20 projects of strategic interest, we will now address the issue of investment in the Republic of Croatia. And when some, and when a project is indeed strategic in such a way that it meets those objectives that individual resolution strategies have adopted, this does not mean that this project should now be re-implemented as well as other projects, the procedure should only be implemented by amending existing laws that is the only possible way to speed up investment and when it is truly determined that this investment meets all these conditions. Then, with these measures, this law, which is good in that part of the law, should then be encouraged and thus be subsidized and practically made possible by investors to implement their investments as soon as possible. There was this morning's speech, for example, on the LNG terminal. I suppose he would be one of those strategic investments, but if the government declared such an investment a strategic investment, then for example, it shouldn't work out a detailed plan of arrangement but it would go directly into realisation. I ask the question are we as a state ready to be in one beautiful... I don't know the Bay of Krk or where it would be built, it goes into the realization of a single project and we are aware that it has, for example, a great influence on the marine environment, that we are prepared as a country to forget all of it, all of it to leave, and that this project is not limited to the work that applies to protect one of the most important economic resources in Croatia, and this is the Adriatic Sea, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or when we talk about the government wanting to take over the power to prescribe which investment in the Republic of Croatia is a strategic project that is not. I'll be back here on that Peles bridge again. So the government is not able to assess on its own whether the Pelješki bridge is a strategic investment for Croatia but I read yesterday in the media that a decision on whether or not to study whether the Pelješki bridge is needed as a strategic investment in Croatia will work on a Belgian company dealing with marketing, consulting and so on, a consulting company. We're talking about letting the government decide on all important investments whether they're not private or public or governmental or governmental. And here the Government, when it comes to the completion of the construction of the Peljega Bridge, should decide whether it should be in the Republic of Croatia or not to leave it to the Parliament, does not leave it to any of its ministries, not to the Commission, but to be done by a foreign consulting house from Belgium. So on the one hand, we are looking for investments, we are crying for investment, we would like to speed up with certain laws, special laws and the same investment and we are not able to even open investments that we have in the Republic of Croatia, for example in transport infrastructure, we are unable to complete them. We practically stopped investments in Zadar when it comes to Gagenica. We have completed controversial investments in Rijeka when it comes to building a river traffic route. We've stopped building the highway towards the plates for a year and a month there's nothing going on. We suspended all activities in the construction of numerous county, regional waste management centres because we didn't know if they were meeting environmental conditions or not, so we wandered these decisions as government in the last year. We have stopped building highways towards Sisak, according to Bjelovar and Koprivnica we have passed some law that we will now enable investors to continue to invest individual projects even though the building facility is not originally theirs, etc., etc. So we bring the mass of these laws, we wander into it, in these decisions and the investments that have been started, for which there are building permits, for which there are partly sources of funding, we simply stop them. I simply cannot understand that we are not now able as a government, that the government is unable to determine that such special laws will not change anything but should learn from any law that defines the procedures for the establishment of acts, determine what a barrier is, which is an administrative obstacle, remove it and so step by step. The former government has adopted a programme of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia defining several measures, action plans relating to the removal of these obstacles, the reduction of this bureaucratic apparatus, the reduction of the number of institutions, administrations, institutions in the Republic of Croatia that practically prevented any kind of investment from being accelerated. However, this continued the establishment of new institutions such as the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, Competitiveness Agency, etc., etc. Without proper entry into any law, without a barrier removal system, investment will not be encouraged. Not to say that all these investments will practically be disabled if we haven't taken care of the land book by the way, if we haven't taken out the real estate cluster. Because I don't know how much the law allows faster investment if property legal relations aren't solved, there's absolutely nothing to be invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33021	Thank you. We've reported five replicas. First is Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said exactly that this government invents, makes, proposes, tortures us with a bunch of new laws to encourage investment and attract some new potential investors and those investments that are under its nose, which are actually stopping. But apparently they needed some time, and here is the former first Deputy Prime Minister who had the image of a great businessman announcing the tsunamis of investment and then he had to come to power in order to make it clear to him that he couldn't bring new projects within three months, but that he needed some time. So he said what you thought, so I can't project that fast. It takes some time for them to prepare. That's all there is to it. It is also announcing a new law that some magic wand will solve everything. A lot of local self-government has collapsed, heavy words have fallen as local self-government is incompetent, it cannot change any major project, etc., there is also Lečevica, I will mention a waste center in Zadar County. So these projects very rarely or almost never stand because of local self-government. Where it gets stuck are exactly what kind of consent or re-purposes or what it decides at the level of the state government. I don't know how it was thought that the Energy Centre would solve Lecevic now, and that's what management itself has braked, does that mean that it's going to be contrary to the local self-government's spatial plan, even though I've heard lawmakers say everything will be in line with spatial plans? And I am now asking you if there is a Space Management Strategy and a National Planning Strategy with this must be consistent with all spatial plans to the lowest level. If there is a waste management strategy and all spatial plans must be in line with it, then how can the state say that local self-government is doing something contrary to state policy when it must all be in harmony with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33023	It's time, co-worker. We have a colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrin is correct, and you have confirmed by your example that indeed the Government when it comes to investment when it comes to the country's development strategy is really crazy. Here's another example. There are at least 13,000 unsold apartments in Croatia. Just when we found a model in the last government to enable young people, families and Croatian citizens to start buying these apartments whose sale would allow new housing and employment of the construction sector, they stopped the law even though 2.5 thousand dwellings were sold in just a few months. And now they announce the construction of new apartments. I mean, it's not clear to me that we're going to build new ones, and the fact is that there are now 13,000 unsold. And instead of encouraging the purchase of these apartments, the economic sector starts along the way and further reduces subsidies to housing savings to further detimulate and demotize Croatian citizens to enter these housing loans, buy and apartments to solve the housing issue primarily for young families, etc. So there are a number of examples where the government simply has no vision of how and how to address the challenges that are in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33025	Thank you. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33026	So you're telling a colleague that basically the government doesn't know anything and that there's no strategy, etc. It's the usual thing to do. I have to tell you that basically we stopped the deficit first, so we cut it from 15 billion to 10 billion, we hitched off investments called political investments, and we introduced investment priority ones and those defined by a cost-effectiveness study. The Peljeski bridge, whether it works domestic or foreign consultant project because you are against foreign investors and foreign consultants, is not clear to me but they will show the best way to connect Croatia as quickly and as cheaply as possible. The Peles bridge when we have money and we keep saying I don't have any money, and you said there's no money either, but you dragged the project and the nose people in style we're building, we're building 100 million at 100 million and what we have now. We don't have anything on the Peljega Bridge or that money that's probably going down because if the site hasn't been maintained, and it hasn't been maintained, then you have to invest some things again. Therefore, the Peljek Bridge is not an art piece, it is an investment that has its own mathematics, its sources of resources. The Peleski Bridge, if it's good math, will work, I believe, and don't forget that this government has agreed with the EU that it can enter the financing project 85%. You didn't do it, didn't it probably occur to you that you could?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33027	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I didn't tell my colleague Gjurkovic what you said, and that's what you concluded. As for the deficit above all, you said you cut the deficit to 10 billion, but by the way, you increased taxes to increase the revenue side of the state budget, that's one thing. Another thing you did at that time when you were talking about the deficit planning growth, you know it somewhere around 2% to eventually happen that it's not growth, but it's giving the GDP down around 1.8% in the Republic of Croatia. as much as you knew at first and as much as your expectations ultimately justified you. As for the fact that I have something against foreign consultants, not that I don't mind, but it's just an example of the Gazenica that you stopped the example that foreign consultants to the two leading German banks who entered the project gave assurance through the study that the construction of the Gaženica was justified so you stopped it. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, the Pelješki Bridge is a capital transport, road, economic investment in the Republic of Croatia. If it were to measure the feasibility of the studio's justification for building a highway network in the Republic of Croatia, that road network would never have been built. Because capital investment infrastructure projects cannot be viewed only through the collection of tolls or the justification of passing the daily number of vehicles. It provides a basis for the development of the entire region, for the development of the state and if we did not enter into the construction of this road infrastructure Croatia would not today be a tourist leader in the Mediterranean. We in southern Croatia, unfortunately, have stayed apart because we have not yet reached the highway or the Pelješki bridge, and one of the other roads is therefore the Pelješki bridge and the construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik is the only prerequisite for the development of the far south of Croatia. Unfortunately, with this government, I think we're going to wait a long time for this development to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33029	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bacic mentioned a lot of things I'll try to refer to some of them. You mentioned strategies and programmes from nautical tourism to this next, I will refer only to some strategies and programmes that have brought as units of local self-government, so cities, municipalities, counties and the state itself, which concern continental Croatia, so that we already have from before the mandate of the last government. So we also have a strategy for developing continental tourism, hunting, fishing tourism, waste management, etc., etc. which were not carried out. For what reason? I would not now characterise or qualify as you qualify this government after a year and a few months of incompetence. And after eight years, what can I say about the last government? Although you're saying I think Mrs. Lovrin also mentioned that it wasn't always the local self-government units who were the ones who were blocking those projects, which isn't true. Waste management is a clear example for you especially in the case of Osijek-Baranja County where we no longer know for ourselves who stopped the project of systematic management by the same. Every step towards facilitating investment in this difficult period faced not only by Croatia but also by the world is what needs to be welcomed, even if it is the changes to the laws that we make relatively quickly. You mentioned that the Adriatic Sea is the only strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think so. I think there's a country, I think there's water, I think there's a whole series of other things that the Republic of Croatia has as objective advantages. And in the end, you mentioned the apartment building, which is very important to me, and what I have to mention, and that's the housing taken care of by the returnees in the municipality of Antunovac who are... for the term of office of the last Government if I am not mistaken in 2006 or 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these buildings, or houses, are still not in land books, and these people can't buy these buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33031	Thanks, buddy. Time. We have an answer, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And you've really touched a very large number of topics so that in two minutes I can't answer everything. I'm gonna try something. So, I said first of all that before the Government goes into defining strategic projects that one general act should be established which will eventually regulate either it is a strategy or it is some other document that will define a particular area in the Croatian economy or anything else that can only then result in strategic projects for which no special decision should be taken by the Government or any of its bodies. That's what I was gonna say. So let's not fall into the trap that some project in a certain I don't know industry will be economic, and some others won't because it's smaller. But I'm talking about it, so it doesn't have to be determined that it's something that's over 150 million kuna investment that, by doing so, it's god-given that it has to be a strategic project. It doesn't have to be. It is important that what is in the direction of Croatia's development, which is determined to boost economic development, create new jobs, which is justified, in which a consensus has been adopted in Croatia, and in this House that these projects should then be of particular interest and should be made possible through a number of subsidies that I have said in this law and that I welcome once again to target these projects, and not to go from the end when we find ourselves to find that a strategic project, we do not know from some arbitrary assessment of a single body and whether it is the Government's commission as provided for in the new law, and now, according to this project, we will allow all those measures that may not be justified by this project. That's what I was going to say. That's the reason. As for this other one, I did not say that the Adriatic Sea is the only one, but I said that it is one of the most important resources in Croatia and that one project that would endanger that resource is not strategic for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33033	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33034	Here, Mr. Bacic, you were talking about this construction sector. I don't know if you'll agree that this whole building balloon actually grew from 2000 to 2008 on public investment. And this construction sector has grown so much that when public investment is gone, it simply cannot survive. Maybe the state should actually be strategically considering the fate of this construction sector even though it has no job and no job. He just can't really be held back. It is only a matter of how strategically reroute or where to find resources for other activities. But that's also a matter of strategic observation. Or when reference is made to IKEA then to promote that by building IKEA, by opening up those 1200 or 1300 jobs to the loss of Croatian production jobs by opening up IKEA. Has anyone made a calculation in the Croatian furniture industry? Since no one in the negotiation process has concluded any contracts where Croatian production would be placed through the IKEA. Has anyone calculated those ten kilometers of lost highways? Has anyone included in this IKEA those moving billing houses a dozen kilometers away and co-financing the Croatian state for some 30 million kunas in moving these houses. And then finally draw the line and say, here's the strategic Republic of Croatia with the opening, for example, that's what IKEA gets. So that's our view of investment. Thank God he's here! What's to come? So we haven't heard, no one's given such a strategic assessment, and that's a strategic assessment of some investment, not just blindingly looking at what's going to happen by the backlog of how much the country's cubes dig up. And thirdly, when it comes to the Peljesk Bridge, if these don't build it for you when the HDSSB is on the occasion of the Pelješke Bridge, don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33035	Thank you. We have a colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree in large part with you, Mr Djurovic, but I do not agree that the growth of the construction sector was solely based on public investment. He was heavily dependent on public investment, but it was a time of very high, intense high-building in Croatia. A large number of apartments were built annually, which significantly employed the construction sector. And now I agree on my knees because all investments have been stopped primarily in road infrastructure. But I don't think it's bad for the state to borrow and raise a deficit if it invests in large capital infrastructure projects. That's not bad, if the deficit is focused on development he's acceptable. And, by the way, it allows for, for example, development and construction, but also for the entire industry. I don't see why the government doesn't speed up, here's why it doesn't speed up the construction of a low-rise line towards the river. Why doesn't the government continue to revitalise the Sava River? It is a huge project where the construction sector could be involved and I think it would be very helpful for Slavonski Brod and Sisak, so practically it can now be watered to Zagreb. I don't know why it stopped with the activities of building a multi-purpose channel. I don't know why the construction of the Peles Bridge stopped. Why did you stop a series of big projects that enable and hire, and then clearly and growth in production and everything that goes, economic growth at all. Therefore, it is not a bad deficit if it finance development and we do not have to run and fear public investment just because we are in additional debt. If this is borrowing in order to encourage any work of major investment works that enables economic development, it is absolutely real.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33037	Thank you. And the last replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić would ask the people of Banovina, Sisak and my Velika Gorica if the highway Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak were strategic they would all tell you no matter what political option they belong to. Now, if that strategic facility had been unequivocally completed in all, then we shouldn't have said at all that in Sisak and Banovina some projects would be strategic. Investors would go there alone. It's easier for an investor to come to a city that has an industrial tradition and run some industrial production there than to get somewhere where there is no such tradition. And you see that you shouldn't have any law. Infrastructure is a prerequisite for attracting investors. The same story is with that bridge. The Peleski Bridge is a matter of national pride, a matter of patriotism and ultimately a matter of economic strategy. Because if we want to talk about resuscitating Korčula, if we want to talk about resuscitating Lastovo, Mljet, Pelješac, then we can't say anything without it. And no one should draw that as a strategy. Just as no one should have drawn us that the merger, the historical merger of the Croatian north and south is no strategy but something that we all carry in our hearts and that highway Zagreb-Split is simply that. But if it wasn't for that, we wouldn't be able to talk about the tourist season today. We could have had no idea what kind of tourism strategy, we wouldn't have so many tourists on the Adriatic. And in the end, if we're drilling so much about this strategy that they finally want someone to have the courage to tell someone in Croatia and buy this old half-breeded hotel, take it down, but in such gabarites you have to make a new hotel. It's strategic thinking. Because someone makes them have to rebuild an old hotel and they can't get a room bigger than 25, 26 square meters and it costs more than building a new hotel is non-strategic thinking about tourism. And that someone will have to have the courage to say here. If it's consistent with spatial documentation and make sure we reach a consensus about it without any law. With step by step building infrastructure, conditions are created for... investments in a particular area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33039	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. And the final deputy... And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, my colleague Bacic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I didn't expect you to be a colleague of Shucker's. Here you go. Replication response. But I wouldn't have anything to replicate at this exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33040	Yes, it is. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with him, but I still have to confirm that, you know. Namely, it is not necessary for the inhabitants of Velika Gorica and Sisak and Banovina to declare whether the highway towards Sisak is a strategic project, it has been a strategic project since 1999 and since 1997, when the Transport Development Strategy and the Programme for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia was adopted. At that time, a major study was carried out, a strategy when the debate was in all units of local self-government and when the whole of Croatia was manifested about the project and this project was built in the full profile of the highway towards Sisak already established as a strategic project. And now we need another time to confirm that it's a strategic project to finish it. There's no need, he's a strategic project, and the government was supposed to complete it, and it shouldn't have stopped these works. Therefore, it is only proof that there are a number of documents in the Republic of Croatia, the energy strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia is talking about the need for construction I do not know 2 or 3 thermal power plants on gas. It no longer needs any special additional decision in order to strengthen the strategic importance of this project because it is already in itself, etc., etc. That's what we are, here's what we're trying to say is that this special law of lex specialis, which is proposed in the text as we read it on the Ministry's pages, does not need or will make a significant contribution to economic development, i.e. a new investment swing in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33041	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Deputy Minister's proposal, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed very briefly, just to thank you for the debate and for the considerations you have given in your discussions. Although most of all, it is only the future proposal that will only become that when the government adopts it and officially directs it to the parliamentary procedure that we expect it to be through the month March. So, somehow this was more of a platform for the opening debate, I would say about the future proposal on strategic investments, something less about this draft law that is on the table, which I can conclude from the debate is a common denominator that you will support and that it is actually a common denominator and a common desire for all to work out investments in Croatia. In that sense, the question was, did this law attract anyone? I think I can freely, given that the gentleman did so and quote him in fact, on last week's Round Table of the Conference organised by the CNB "International Competitiveness of Croatia" representative... said literally, quote: "We have seen this law and have decided to bring our financial centre to all of Europe in Croatia because according to the content we have seen, we have decided that Croatia is the most attractive destination for the establishment of our financial centre." So here's someone we've drawn to this law. What should definitely be agreed is that one law cannot play a crucial role if it is not included in a whole strategic framework. That is why this year you will have the opportunity to see the economic development strategy of Croatia, and as its essential part, I am detaching the most important elements to be adopted in 2013 such as the Investment Encouragement Strategy. So, this strategic framework that is mentioned, okay, we have the law, but where we're going to strategically, in fact, where these investors are going to be strategically targeted, based on the kind of industrial heritage that you mentioned, according to one whole infrastructure, where these investors are going to be targeted, that's something that needs to be derived from a strategy to encourage investment, but also from a strategy to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, from a strategy to develop an industrial policy that, whose future common denominator will be horizontally supporting those who go for innovation, who combine science and production, which introduces this threefold effect of public sector science, but also a real sector that needs to be inherited by that ultimate product. Also this year as part of that package, we'll see smart specialization. The tourism development strategy is coming to Parliament next week. So all of these components are a roof document to be adopted by the government by the end of June this year. This economic development strategy where each investor, regardless of whether it is small, large, medium, whether it is chewing gums or whether it is a trade chain or another sector, can be identified, but realistically it must see what it can expect, not only in terms of relief and incentives, but also in terms of capacity, education capacity and the like. And finally, let me take advantage of the occasion, perhaps a little more personal than the executive character to thank absolutely everyone, convey the thanks of course to those who are not present. It has really been an honor, a pleasure every occasion when, on behalf of the Government, I have had the opportunity to defend here legal proposals, to work with you this way in the assembly and to each and every one of you personally, especially I want a lot of happiness in your further work. Thanks again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33043	I thank the Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister. This is what we're done with. I conclude the debate, we begin tomorrow with the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 280.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33044	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and Improving of the Investment Environment, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 282. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Economic Committee. Please, dear Deputy Minister of Economy Tamaru Obradovic Mazal to be manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33045	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-20-0.u33046	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 23 against and 10 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and the improvement of the investment environment in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues in the Croatian Assembly, can continue with the Plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, on the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.280; Proposer of this Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Agriculture Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, dear Minister.
