ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35520	... Here's your colleague, Mlakar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35521	Thank you very much. I apologize, Madam Vice President, I ask you that given the dramatic situation in Croatian health and announced a general strike in health care, in the heart of the HDZ tourist season, the club wants to show itself about this problem and we ask you for a break of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35522	A colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35523	For the same reason, the club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35524	He's a colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35525	For the same reason we're looking for a break, but 10 minutes. 20 is too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35526	I'm setting a break to 10.25. [[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 10.26 HOURS]] Enter the hall who will speak. After the club break, we'll hear their opinions. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35528	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As we warned, there will be a collapse of the health system, we can freely say that it is visible today and that it is on the scene today. I will only mention what was promised in the election campaign, that the waiting lists will be reduced. Today, 100,000 new people on waiting lists, so let's take for example the last ones where the 20 orthodontates contract was cancelled, the waiting list is from 3 to 7 years, pension contributions have not been reduced or suspended, hospital restrictions have been reduced, and it has been promised to increase, that 4 new birth homes will open, none of them have been contacted with health associations. The release of nurses missing in the Republic of Croatia in one KBC is being fired these days by 40 nurses. The memory union Abbersek I will eat her and later mention remains silent. The attitude towards the Homeland War through Vukovar Hospital, which has reduced the limit and shift of the director of Vukovar Hospital, speaks enough about what we said a year and a half ago that there will be a collapse of the health system and there is no vision of the development of the health system. The absence of any social dialogue, especially in times of crisis, is unacceptable. However, we have witnessed that the county court has abolished the collective agreement for procedural reasons. A very important fact by colleagues and colleagues to which the government, which Minister Ostojic and the prime minister must give an answer. I read the verdict "on the absence of an agreement on the composition and number of the negotiating committee to conclude the disputed collective agreement". I have a document before me where Memorial Avberšek has deceived the Croatian government and the Croatian public or Minister Ostojic has covered up this document and has failed to give the county court an insight into whether here he makes it very clear "on my request that the trade unions give the negotiating board the members of the negotiating committee are the following", we have 9 listed here. Among the first is the Memorial of Avberšek and the signed Memorial of Avberšek. This document, which Minister Ostojic had to give to the county court, because based on it, perhaps the decision of the county court would be different. The second document at the 172nd session confirmed that the Committee on Legislatives and collective negotiations that the conclusion of a collective contract for the activities of health and health insurance was conducted in accordance with the applicable Labour Act. So either Prime Minister Milanovic must replace Rajko Ostojic because he has denied these two important documents, is it possible because of the lack of that documentation in the county court that a decision has been made on the procedural abolition of the collective agreement or, on the other hand, if it is not true, if the government has not failed these two documents then it is necessary to apply for a criminal offence to Memorial Avbersek, which is the extended hand of the SDP. A new collective contract, ladies and gentlemen, I can freely say demeaning and insulting 70,000 workers in the health system. He says: "Only in the public sector, or in the healthcare sector, doctors, nurses, medical technicians, labs and technical staff in this Europe of 1.7 will not be paid for overtime." A new collective contract signed by the shameful I must say against the law, although it is shameful for the health system rather than illegal, where Minister Ostojic signs that healthcare professionals alone in the public sector will not be paid overtime. This is contrary to several laws, and here's only one Health Care Act says "the duty, the time spent on duty is considered working hours and it can't be longer than 48 hours". The unions had an extraordinary assembly where they decided that unless a collective contract was returned, they would enter into the general strike at the time of the tourist season. All of this is why we're asking that the prime minister appear before the vote here in Parliament and says whether the government has hidden these two important documents If here I am ending, if not then the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have had to sue the Memorial of Avberšek and imagine this week 340 thousand guests came down, and imagine the messages that during the tourist season doctors strike and we will say that they strike doctors on emergency medical aid that are throughout the beautiful Adriatic coast. [[Intruder: Finalize the debate.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35529	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35530	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. One of the biggest mistakes, there were more, these governments and the Kukuriku coalition were reducing health contributions by two index points. The Croatian Labourists, when we discussed it, said there would be a collapse of the health system. All that's done today is exactly the fact that we were right. That's not why we like each other. We think the government should return that rate because the health situation is going to get worse and worse. At the time, it was said that the two index points that would relieve the economy would increase employment, reduce unemployment, create new jobs. How many new jobs are open, we know for ourselves, there are figures that say that after that, unemployment has increased. And instead of the government taking care of this critical situation for Croatia, raising social dialogue, respecting social partners, respecting the parliamentary opposition, the government has opted for a fight tone, the government has opted for intolerance and the government has opted for denial in fact denying the situation in Croatia. Remember when the opposition then turned over to the HDZ government not to acknowledge the recession. Today this government behaves equally, does not recognise its social partners, does not recognise their demands. When she negotiated with health care professionals, or health workers, to give up Santas and jubilee awards, she said she would not touch collective agreements. However, it was obviously a deception, and now it can be seen that the government is not even holding on, not only to be boastful but not to stick to its promises. Health is missing. We know all 5,000 experts, doctors. And what message we send to those who are in doubt to leave Croatia with a bread belly for much higher wages, go to the cities of the rest of the European Union, because now we are part of that European Union or stay in Croatia and help Croatian healthcare, help Croatian citizens. This is what the government says go outside, we don't need you, we don't need you, we can do without you. Which is very dangerous, not only for the Government of the Republic of Croatia but it is dangerous for citizens and for the stability of the political system. The health care system is on its knees, hospitals lack medication, gloves are missing. The waiting lists are getting bigger. And what the Minister of Health has been saying, that is, since the Kukuriku coalition came to power, the Minister of Health, we are all a more sicker nation and more health problems are causing even more problems in all areas in the Republic of Croatia. That is why we also join the demands to address if not the prime minister, to address the health minister and to tell representatives here in the Croatian Parliament what the next moves are. Will social dialogue be accepted and what will they do to ensure that there is no general strike? We call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to return the health care contribution to 15%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35531	And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35532	Thank you. Here I will in the name of the Club as an engineer of engineering not as a doctor but also as a citizen of this country, a beautiful country and knowing and almost daily seeing the state of health in Croatia. And without the fake demagogy that's been here for a year and a half, the health minister's dispensation that the state of health is extraordinary, how 70,000 health workers I'd say are doing their job responsibly right now, I'm not going to say they're bleeding, but for extremely small wages they're doing a huge job. At the same time, almost 70,000 healthcare professionals are located, so Croatian healthcare professionals are located in Austrian, Swiss, German health institutions, hospitals. And apparently, several thousand healthcare professionals are missing from Croatian health care, and we are likely to import these workers in accordance with the labour market from third world countries and which will be significantly, significantly cheaper. We also warned as a club that the reduction of health contributions would cause new health dues and is currently worth 5 billion kuna. That reduction, that 2% did not help the economy as it caused one more difficult, more difficult resulting in an increase of 2% of VAT. And it's quite clear to all those who have had an understanding of the economy, but also to economic, economic logic. It's the biggest responsibility here. And it's not just about the strike during the tourist season. For each country, it is devastating if this most sensitive part, part of the state that should have been and should be addressed to all citizens if the strike for one day, for two days, happens outside the tourist season for half an hour. But in any case, this possible general strike in health will cause a nice picture of Croatia under quotes. And the question arises why and why those measures in tourism, why the reduction of VAT in tourism when simply those who want to come to Croatia to the Adriatic, on the continent, will not have the basic, which is health care. In any case, we support the appearance and apparition of the Ministry of Health, but also the Prime Minister because Croatia is the most responsible Croatian government. In the end, citizens were elected in the elections, directly here through the Croatian Parliament and through the MPs. But let's go see what's been going on in the last year and a half. Enough for you to go to any clinical hospital, go to the Clinical Hospital Osijek, go here to Zagreb, go to Rijeka, go to Split, go to any medical facility, and you will understand the state of health today. Ask an ordinary citizen how he feels about this condition and whether he has enough money to be treated in these health institutions. For the past year and a half, this Croatian government is the only one and what it has done and has consistently spent political shifts almost 99.5% of the cases in clinical hospitals. The personnel they have, who have probably worked in these hospitals, have been brought in, but are obviously unable to deal with this time that is coming. The only denominator of all these political shifts was the political resemblance. The second question, what about those young educational staff, the ones who graduated from medical school, the medical staff. At the Clinical Hospital of Osijek and I end up, for the 1600 kuna volunteering, so this Ministry has prevented the education and doing of that practical internship. There's only one person on board. That speaks enough about the state of Croatian health.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u35533	Thank you very much. At the moment, the health minister and representatives of the health union both expressed their desire and the possibility to go into negotiations and we can only hope that the negotiations will end successfully. My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue with the 8th session of the discussion on - Final Bill on the Foundation "Croatian House – Croatia House" second reading, P.Z. No. 336. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the law will explain the Deputy Minister of Culture, Prof. Berislav Šipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47440	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Here's a draft of the final bill on the Croatian House Foundation. The proposed law on the "Croatian House – Croatian House" Foundation will deal with issues that are the establishment of a foundation. It is the founder of a foundation that will be the Republic of Croatia. Fundamental rights and obligations will be exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The foundation of the foundation is carried out since the need for the Republic of Croatia to establish a legal person who will be the headquarters institution for promoting Croatian foreign policy, Croatian culture, art, Croatian language history and cultural heritage abroad. But at the same time, it will also help to achieve the goals that the Republic of Croatia has towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who will be able to participate in the work of this institution in order to achieve its purpose. The election procedure and the partial body of the Foundation, now the chairman of the Management Board and the Management Board, namely the President and the members of the Management Board, shall appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Culture, i.e. Foreign and European Affairs. Funding of the Foundation will be implemented in a way that the Foundation will be financed from part of the revenue from the games on happiness and prize games, and from the income from the underlying assets with the provision of basic assets in the amount of EUR 200000 from the State budget of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The transitional and final provisions will also set deadlines for the implementation of preparatory actions for the start of the Foundation's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47441	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47442	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law in the final form and on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats I will confirm our willingness to support the proposal for this law, which will be established by the Foundation "Croatian House – Croatian House". We also welcome the proposing's willingness to include some of the proposals presented in the debate in the Croatian Parliament at the first reading in the final draft of the law and thus, in fact, the management structure of the "Croatian House – Croatian House" Foundation is adapted to those standards that are already in force in the foundations in the Republic of Croatia. It is extremely important that by setting up a foundation funding model, the promoter created the conditions for the sustainable financing of this project, regardless of what appears to be the initial funds provided by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and provided for this year relatively small. But it is expected that the full - time foundation, or swing, will develop its activities in the coming years and years. Of course, according to its capacities, the Republic of Croatia is certainly one of those countries that cannot compare with large countries that already have cultural institutions, i.e. institutions of similar character such as "Croatia House" or "Croatian House" because it is difficult to compare with tradition, network, power and activities carried out by Goethe Institute or Cervantes, Alliance Francis and other similar foundations, i.e. institutions that promote national cultures. But the ambition of the "Croatian House" Foundation is primarily to be active in supporting and introducing foreign policy through promotion of cultural traditional values but what is particularly important through promotion of recent cultural achievements. As a member of one of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia who, of course, very much lays down his tradition and culture, can testify that it is impossible today to build the identity of a national minority solely on elements of traditional culture, i.e. on elements that national minorities of heritage from the past. This identity is not complete, is not consistent unless there is an open communication channel according to recent cultural achievements according to what the countries of origin today have as their living cultural content. In this sense, concern for Croats abroad is not and cannot be solely based on tradition because tradition is only one of the elements of the recognition of their cultural and national identity in the modern sense. Certainly for the preservation of these links that today the Croatian ethnic communities abroad hold in the network with the people of origin are and there must be knowledge, contact but also participation in what we call a recent, contemporary cultural scene, the creation and functioning of our cultural patterns as models open to what is called European culture in a broader sense. And of course global, given the global communication channels and everything that makes our culture open. Efforts to take the first step by establishing such a foundation can get their fullness and make their effects only after a few years of work. This is also clear for this kind of action since we do not have similar experience from the past because what the institutions were doing directly concerned about Croatian national minorities abroad is a different character and was mostly based on tradition. So, that is why we need to think about how to communicate the idea of Croatian culture in a modern way, how those who are active today are actors of Croatian cultural life make closer and more famous not only to members of Croatian ethnic communities living abroad but also to the public of those countries, first and foremost, we talk about a region where our language is understood, but also to the EU whose full member we are. I repeat, the HNS Club supports this proposal of the Law establishing the Law on the Foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47443	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47444	Dear Madam President of the Parliament, you said that you said briefly that so far that Croatia does not have such large and rich old traditional cultural institutions and therefore we need to start this new one. It has Croatia's "The Mother of Croatia" and should only support it, strengthen, direct, finance and do its jobs. But to you, the thought of this "Matica hrvatska" on behalf of her historical role raises your hair on her head. You're making up something new, you're paying thousands of clerks who will know whose sons and daughters, you're going to arrest their parents here by institutions and you're going to send children around the world for a little bit, and that's the basic reason. There is no cultural institution that can propagate well if there is no national, certainly positive, correct, true national charge. So, the components, and this is totally analytical, and who's going to go play a few songs and folklore, we have these institutions in America as much as you want in Australia where the folklore is played, and we need something else that's "Matica Croatia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47445	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47446	My colleague Marasovic gets his hair on my head most of the time when you're trying to twist what I said because I'm sorry I have to realize that you don't understand what this is about. I'm an old parent if I can say something like that at all at my age and I don't think about it, and I don't think about the Croatian institution of such tradition and history as "Matica Hrvatska" as you wish to instruct us. However, you do not understand the basic things when we talk about the capacities of an institution such as "Matica Hrvatska", but also what we had in the past from "Matica of Croatian emigrants", various information centres, as well as the departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the special body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which cares about our minorities abroad, is one pair of sleeves, and this is something quite different on the principles that do not recognise any new employment but better use of existing capacities that we have precisely for the purpose of promoting the Republic of Croatia, its present culture not only to members of our national minorities, or our minority abroad, which speaks in large part of our language but also to all others who our culture is interested in and who can be an incentive to think and think about European culture in a broader sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47447	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47448	Dear Vice President, dear colleague, if this law had come 60 years ago, then I'd say it's in line with trends. All of these foundations that you mentioned are mainly the establishment after World War II and they all reduce programs and all part-time work and on the income principle, so all the way up to those of one of the British counsil, Cervantes all do so in this way. This law doubles the jobs of already existing administrations and institutions that deal with it. Another thing, if someone thinks that each year the regulation gives a certain number of lottery funds to provide long-term support and encouragement for Croatian culture and its representation abroad, especially in the region, is wrong. It's doing it completely different. It would be much more effective if these funds were re-scheduled to, say, publishing activities, translations of our publications and then distributed to this... so Croatian culture would be much better promoted. And thirdly, if it is already going with such an institution, then it had to include a tourist community in which we spoke countless times on our boards for tourism was both good and HGK and of course the Ministry of Science. This is simply an agreement between the Deputy Prime Minister of the CNS and the Minister of the HNS ranks, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47449	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47450	So I don't like to replicate my colleague Mesic with people who want to think first and verbalize all the reasons why something can't be done, and only then eventually if they are pressed by arguments or opportunities or by obligation to think about how something might still be possible. So the fact that someone has failed to cover all of the activities that are being given to this foundation by law at this time does not prevent us from changing things. If we are dissatisfied with the effects so far, then there is our obligation to change the situation so that these effects are better. The fact that some major countries have approached this business after World War II, and we are only doing so now just testifies how late we are. The issue of budgeting such activities is the issue of a single institution and, on the other hand, a sustainable funding model where there is something to do with it. I don't know how you dare predict that something based on the annual regulation can be permanently destabilising or cannot ensure permanent security of financing for this project. In fact, let us not forget that, on the basis of this regulation, which is adopted each year, a whole series of other foundations and systems are being financed, which is traditionally stable and for years not only in this area, in this area, which is the worst of all, and much more in all other areas, because the area of culture has not been given sufficient attention so far. I agree with you that more resources should be invested in the translation of our works, our books regardless of what it was about bettrist or publicist and that it must be the language we will speak and represent a part of our culture. But it's among other things the foundation's job to unite, channel and direct wherever it hasn't been systemically so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47451	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47452	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would hate to quote Krleža when he spoke of Croatian culture and Serbian heroism. However, this proposal of the Law on the Foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House" is a legal proposal or final legislative proposal that could sound different, which could be different. Since I am a regionalist, I repeat not only about Slavonski Brod but in many of our places the centers of cultural, traditional and every other gathering are Croatian homes, not Croatian houses. So, in the title itself, and I think that I may, by amendment, stand up to change it, there is a Croatian home, not a Croatian house. The very word and the difference in words I would say is that it prefers one higher degree of heat than the Croatian house. A house like a house and a home is something else. And now that that's exactly what I'm talking about, then we have the assignments of the future Croatian House-Croatia House as it says here. So this is defined in Article 3 that it is "the Foundation for the Promotion of Croatian Foreign Policy". Is it? It is written in the first place, not culture, so it writes after that Croatian culture and then art, history, language, cultural heritage etc. But first of all, Croatia's foreign policy comes first. Why, first of all, Croatian foreign policy in the Croatian house, perhaps in the Croatian home? I would even leave out that notion if it were promoting Croatian foreign policy. particularly in terms of these discussions that were in which Croatian foreign policy was not mentioned at all, which was spoken by Mr Beus Richembergh. So to achieve its purpose, this foundation would finance programmes and activities abroad. Of what? Croatian foreign policies such as some kind of policy in those lead times when people lost their heads. What policies and what will be financed? Two hundred thousand kunas in a trust fund? Is that the capital that would finance something like that? 200 thousand kuna. Now that we're talking about those 200 thousand kunas, then we have to discuss who's running it with those let's say maybe the initial 200 thousand kunas of investment, the role that is the initial capital I'd say these foundations. The Management Board and the Chairman of the Management Board shall be managed by the Management Board. He doesn't run any executive directors or I don't know who. It's the board of directors. So I understand the notion of the board of directors, the board of directors, the supervisory board as the control mechanism of the one who runs or the one who manages some kind of trust, some kind of department, an agency or anything else. There's no steering part of it in this Act. There is only the board of directors and its chairman appointed as the start of a minister or board of directors, and they set out among themselves who will be first in this, among the same in the board of directors. Now that these money that's here is going to be 200 thousand kunas at first come to that croatia house fund, then once a year the board will consider the financial report, so those who spent it will also consider where they spent it, so I guess it won't be against where they spent that money. Of course the report will always be adopted. There is no supervisory authority to say, there is no control over the spending of that money because the president and members of them will therefore discuss among themselves where they spent that money. And he's not some kind of big say money but anyway the law and principles that exist legally, legal provisions I think they say something else even in that Foundation Act. Furthermore, the same legislative proposal does not determine the amount of money it can dispose of and which may be spent by the chairman of the Management Board. There's no such thing as legal provisions. Therefore, Article 12 states that the Foundation is financed from part of the revenue from gambling and prize games in accordance with the Law on Games on Happiness, etc. and how to distribute part of the revenue from games and from the income of the underlying assets donations and other incomes in accordance with the Law. Here's another one of the gambling funds. Well, that's the only thing that works in this country actually bookies, gambling, lottery, lottery, bingo, and I don't know what not. Well, we'll grab some for the Croatian House. The Management Board of this Foundation shall submit programme and financial reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 90 days of the expiry of the reporting period. And the Parliament? What's the Parliament doing? To be a dumb observer of all that? And today's debate and decisions which, therefore, when this is on the agenda, the Parliament will confirm the establishment or establishment of the "Croatia House-Croatian House". But after that, it's got nothing to do with it. All this will be resolved between the Management Board and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry. Is that okay? Is it good that this Parliament has no idea what it says here about promoting Croatian foreign policy, promoting Croatian culture, promoting Croatian art, Croatian language history and cultural heritage? Well, I don't think that the government is the only one responsible for promoting all of this, but also the Croatian Parliament. Which here today is likely to raise hands on this left hand side and adopt it. And beyond that, when it comes to institutions in general. Then there really is a queen of Croatian emigrants about which here, quite self-discovery, we're actually keeping quiet about it, which exists for years, and there is a State Office for Croats outside of Croatia. State office. It was talked to, in praise of functions, about the role of this new State Office. And now, we have a third, third institution, the Foundation. Why do I swear to the state office couldn't be such a Foundation? Why can't the State Office also deal with it when there's already a fit and everything else. Or there are all those who were unsuitable at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in other ministries, please all there now at the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia so there you are, there you are dealing with Croats outside Croatia and in fact a little who is doing it or is not doing it in the right way as we well know, as we will not say a single word about a third entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., silently our official policy nor promotes such an attitude. The wish of a large majority of Croats in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is this promoting Croatian foreign policy? Why don't we say clearly what we're for, but we have to keep our mouth shut. After all, Duje Marasovic mentioned Matica Croatia. No one can and neither can Mr. Beus-Richembergh, to say that he was in Matica, I was, or another, no one excluded anyone, was cancelled, no membership review was performed, so I was a member of the Croatian Matica from my 17, 17,5 years of age from 69. But the dignity, dignity of the Mother of Croatia, her work through to say the century is really impressive. And in this, all these segments that are numbered here. But I will repeat again, so promoting primarily Croatian culture, art, Croatian language history from Matica has held our Croatian language in its struggles. Not to mention the 68th year, etc. Both cultural heritage and ultimately promoting Croatian foreign policy which was less important for the Matica of Croatia than the preservation of Croatian language and culture in Croatia and in the world and which is linked to numerous links with our people abroad, which would also be one of the goals of this Croatian home to say, not Croatian houses. Because when we promote this whole law then the goals of the "Croatia House" and the way it is managed, the way funding is such that the HDSB club must be restrained. We're not against promoting everything that's Croatian in the world, but because of everything I've said, the HDSSB club will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47453	We're moving on to replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47454	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, these Articles 5, 6 and 7 and 8 are very interesting. So the chairman of the board became one of the very powerful persons to say the declaration, because he first brings acts to work, then he executes those acts and then submits a report to himself by those acts because there is no other body and then delivers this report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and there he stops. It is very interesting that most of the funds of this foundation are expected to be raised from donations that this House should not be discussed. However, given that Article 6 also states that the Chair of the Management Board may delegate some of his powers to some members of the other Management Board, he then delegates some powers to two or three members during the year. And the logical thing is that at the end of the year when the work report is adopted, when it is discussed on the implementation of programming tasks and when it is discussed, none of the members of the Management Board will vote against it because they can vote against themselves. So the most logical thing is that the most logical thing to do tomorrow is to get rid of some inconvenience that they exist, and that is the director of the foundation that executes the executive board that controls how it was done, starting with how the programme was implemented, without talking about how the financial resources are used. However, this is a very interesting hybrid where the chairman of the Management Board of Foundations makes the decisions he makes, but it is very interesting that such a voluntary proposal did not find a place for the trust board to be representatives of the Emerging Mother, the Croatian Brethren Community, so those who would be alive interested in promoting Croatian culture in the countries where they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47455	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47456	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I will shorten your debate, or a replica of pardon to that cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you. In fact, the chairman of the board of directors who adopts the programme and implements it, he's actually doing his own control and they're finally taking an annual opinion on the work of the foundation itself. And all this together actually turns into a conflict of interest and I would say that in a conflict of interest, it is a classic example of conflict of interest so that the exclusion of both the Croatian Mothers and the Croatian Emigrants and the Croatian World Congress from being able to get a member on the board of directors is, in fact, I think that the intentions of setting up this "Croatia house" are somewhat hidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47457	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47458	Honored Madam President of the Parliament. My colleague, I wouldn't be too interested in membership in Matica hrvatska, but it's not just a member of the guarantee that someone there wrote books. It was 200-300 thousand people, we know it was a state, so it wasn't a stupid state, it was sending people to the Matica of Croatia who were tasked with controlling what the Matica of Croatia was doing and reporting to some people etc. We're talking about an institution, not an individual's position or so on. But I wanted to tell you what a message is to establish a new institution. The message is an increase in state spending. This furniture has increased the ruling one, for example. In other words, the state cost to increase the number of councilors, for example, in the city institutions. There were 25 in Split City, now 35. How much is it, gentlemen? How much is it? Let's cut the cost of the state, this is a bad message. We need to reduce the Parliament from 150 to 100 people, we don't need 150 parliamentary deputies. This isn't any populism or demagogy, this can run Italy by the number of MPs. Let's cut the Parliament to 100, which will be the president of each parliamentary committee, let's say, for the culture of the driver. Well, I don't need a driver, so let's take the tram. Let's cut the cost of the state. This is a bad message in that sense. I'm in the front row because of that against. And colleague Grubisic, you have a direct replica. You said, you're surprised this foundation is for foreign policy management. Yes, that is, in a sense, one parallel policy of the current ruling set, parallel foreign policy, etc., who will know what they mean by this and how they think but don't think anything perspective because life changes, everything milks in sacrifice, and everything will end up in a natural state. The Matica needs to be strengthened and in some ways strengthened and financed and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47459	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47460	As far as saving is concerned, I often mentioned in this Croatian Assembly only that's what you tell deaf people to get 1700 new cars for state services. Secondly, and I have personally been going to work for years to this Croatian Parliament, to this high house of ours, and I am not ashamed and thank God I am glad to travel with our people, with our citizens on the tram. Thirdly, what you were saying about the situation as it is, about all the costs and situations in the world, about the recession to say briefly and clearly, should really cut costs wherever possible. And this establishment of the "Croatia House" and what it says in Article 3 in the first sentence, which is the goal of setting up and firstly set up Croatian foreign policy, promoting Croatian foreign policy, so the most likely ones that are ruling, I do not know the second. So, he wants to change something that's true, but maybe it's better that sometimes let him stay and not say what he wants to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47461	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47462	Dear counterpart Grubisic, certainly there are a number of institutions in Croatia that can do these jobs. Promoting culture, promoting languages we don't even keep in our own country, let alone promote it in the world among Croats living outside. The promotion of heritage and, as you said, the basic task is to promote Croatian foreign policy which is almost gone because we listen to Brussels and we do not have our own Croatian foreign policy, we do not have our own foreign policy. This is actually a farsical law and the purpose of this law is another set of institutions actually not seeing the purpose, not really knowing what the end of so many institutions "Croatian House" should be doing. And if we consider 2,000 kuna, that's a ridiculous sum of money, a ridiculous amount of £200. And the other thing you were saying is that it's going to get back to gambling and it looks like Croatia, that there's no gambling, that there's no bookies like you said there's no humanitarian action to make a lot of things die. We are not relying on the state or the economy, but relying on cases and relying on the gambling spirit. And I don't think this Pharisee law should support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47463	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47464	A colleague Vuksic, when it comes to Croatian foreign policy, is primarily referring to countries that are surrounded by Croats and live as, therefore, an indigenous people. Here we have, here we are today speaking on the board of Montenegro. So in Boca Kotorska we have a large number. In the end, the Bar diocese is the first diocese in the Balkans, the oldest diocese in the Balkans. But okay, about that some other time. Or promoting Croatian foreign policy is that in the statements of our current leaders in power, so in the executive government we are talking about doing the best we can. I agree, too, to help the entry of other countries from the region into the EU, into the European peoples' community. But I would like to hear from these same leaders and from the foreign minister, and also from the prime ministers and others in charge of our foreign policy and promoting our foreign policy, that we cannot in any way give up helping them join the EU, but that we cannot give up clearly defined Croatian territories that are in danger and that is. Here comes the agreement with Montenegro on the Ostar Peninsula. Sharengradska Ada is run by the police of Backo Palanka, Kendzija via the Danube 1000 ha of the country registered in the cadastre and the Croatian owner's grantovnica. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, unresolved Ada near Croatia's Kostanica. What our foreign and foreign policy does not promote in order to promote what may be in the Croatian houses that may be in Sarajevo, Belgrade, Podgorica. These are the objectives of our foreign policy as well, but they are also kept silent. What are we going to help, what are we going to do about it? To help everyone come in and take a little bit of our territory, in fact, from our Croatian territory. Is this promoting Croatian foreign policy? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47465	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47466	Thank you, dear colleague Boro. Unlike, therefore, that first bill here in the first place, so instead of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even the Ministry of Culture, but above all, the purpose of this foundation is to promote Croatian foreign policy. So we obviously need a trust that will be financed from the games for happiness, not from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but from the foundation. So if we're already going to promote therefore Croatian foreign policy I'm asking the question right now who is the manager of the foundation, who is the new minister or foreign minister? On the other hand, we also have the promotion of culture, history, cultural heritage, language, etc. and with all the institutions that we have there should certainly not forget the Croatian broadcasting that currently has 4 programmes, which is funded from citizens' pockets. If you don't have a TV, you will also pay for a RTV subscription, and we have some events that Croatian television bypasses every year except for recording that final ceremony of closing Đakovske obligors that have been held 47 times and which 47 years preserve both Croatian language and heritage and history and tradition and culture. However, Croatia's direct TV transmission is not available, and all citizens and Đakov and Slavonia and Croatia, and this should be public television broadcast via satellites and thus can be included in the promotion of both culture and language and heritage and tradition and history to all citizens in every corner of this ball called the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47467	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47468	Yes, a colleague of Croatian television is not an interesting set of 50,000 people in Đakov, because it is something that promotes Croatian and Slavonian, and to say international even traditional values. Here's the first time I've ever thanked you very much for calling me, and for the first time I've been able to make it to the Giakovic Unions. I even sat next to the archbishop of the new Mr. Djura Food, right of him. And so, at night, I watched the journal, I didn't see myself, but it doesn't matter at all. So, what I wanted to say, you see in this law there is no mention of anywhere, for example those who should be included in this "Croatian House", which is the Croatian Tourist Board, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and that happy one of our Croatian Mothers, Croatian World Congress, Croatian Emigrant Queen, etc. No, they don't mention any drone in that. Here, it's just a confirmation of what you've noticed, what I've noticed, and you've replicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47469	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic. We are continuing to discuss the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian House-Croatia House Foundation. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47471	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. No matter what the majority of hands, this law will probably be voted here in the Croatian Parliament, I will try to explain to all of us why this law is actually being passed. At a time when the European Union is going with Creative Europe 2014-2020, at a time when it is one of the few programmes to which the European Union increases funds, we do not mention that part in the draft law on a new trust. So beyond all trends of the complete European Union. We have our original recipe. We're going with the establishment of the Croatian House Foundation, calling for British Countries, the Italian Cultural Centre, something that was founded 60 years ago in the Cold War to relax political relations among other things. Meanwhile, these foundations have undergone thorough transformations and have adapted in such a way as to earn most of the budget on their own. Why did they adapt to that? So that, among other things, they can apply to the European Union funds which this foundation cannot because it does not have entrepreneurship at its core. Therefore, this proposal and the functioning of the existing foundations that are listed here have nothing to do with each other, nothing to do with it, nor how they are formed nor how they operate. This is a story from the middle of the 20th century, what they do is a story from the beginning of the 21st century. Among other things, all other programming activities of such foundations are reduced. Then why this law? Propagation or additional presentation of Croatian foreign policy. If this law passes immediately, and particularly the Deputy Prime Minister stressed the presentation of Croatian foreign policy in the region during the current hour, I would suggest that an exhibition be arranged wherever the Deputy Prime Minister wants, in one of the neighbouring countries, for example in Serbia where damage to cultural goods from the Homeland War will be presented, complete damage. We only have 300 million euros of direct war damage on cultural goods. The cultural country agreement with some of the countries has not yet been signed in the same region. You know why, because you're waiting to meet the return program of cultural goods. That's one of the reasons for certain lawsuits. And now we're going with the propaganda this way is particularly highlighted in the region. I have nothing against cultural cooperation, however, it is not working so that from the existing small budget for cultural programmes you take the funds, so you don't secure new ones, but you take those funds that were thus meant to go into cultural programs to set up some kind of board of directors and appoint the chairman of the board of directors. What qualifications does the president or president of the Management Board have to have? What qualifications must members of the Management Board have? Should they have a college? Are there supposed to be art professions? Should they have high school? Should members or members be respected by any of the parties? That's not a word. Therefore, this law is designed to skip the existing system and that, apart from the criteria and the transparent decision-making of individual councils, it may allocate funds when the Vice-Presidents of the Government respond or the Minister of Culture responds. So, during her guests, first of all, as the Deputy Prime Minister said in the region, there is another exhibition to be opened that will be decided in her cabinet and that is the fact because the presentation of the wealth of Croatian culture, art and cultural heritage. For ten years, we never had a smaller budget for it. You cut him completely by accepting the budget. The entire archaeological research of this country has been reduced to a million kunas. It's embarrassing! At the same time, from the president of the state, President of the Parliament, the Deputy Prime Ministers are all drawn in France, in Paris when archaeological monuments of Croatia are to be exhibited, such as Apoxyomenos. It's embarrassing! Soon you won't have anything to present abroad, because you've cut so much budget for this activity that it hasn't happened since the end of the Homeland War. They promote international cultural co-operation. So what is the main function of the Department of International Cultural Cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with practically 20 employees? Now the 2,000 kuna foundation will improve international cultural co-operation. You know how to do that? So those programs that report to the Ministry of Culture contest get those 200000 if they deserve it and that way you'll promote them. If you want to promote your cultural industries then give it to our publishers who will make translations and will be able to sell our literary works either in the EU or in the region. This promotes international cultural co-operation. They encourage artistic creation and cultural action of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This is extremely hypocritical because there is a programme co-ordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that has been financing cultural needs of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for the past two years systematically reduced. This is a scam. Take a look at the funds of three years ago, four years that went through that programme for cultural, educational, sports and health needs of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and look today. This is a scam. He says programme networking and co-operation are improving at regional international level, and that is a fraud because there is a Culture New Foundation that provides me with six million kunas this year for this very purpose. Yes, but this trust has certain criteria. There is a certain Administrative Council that considers them and decides on this, there is a certain tendering period and applications as to how these funds are applied and what must be done for them. It is said here that these procedures will be proposed and elaborated. No one's talking about the criteria. No one is talking about responsibility for the implementation programmes. It is said that the Foundation for Errors of the Governing Council and the President of the Governing Council will be responsible for their assets. What property? What if someone signs our $2 million contracts? There are no responsibilities and criminal provisions here. Who's going to answer for that? We are deeply aware that most hands will judge and pass this law. But let's get back to the beginning of what we said. The whole of Europe has been going with a new programme since 2014. So why didn't we build a foundation in that sense, we would vote for it. Why are we completely ignoring the trends in the EU that we are so boasting about that we have entered it? We are now doing something that Europe absorbed 60 years ago. Why isn't there a possibility of applying to these funds here? Why didn't we go with a foundation that would provide those Croatian artists, those Croatian cultural institutions, those Croatian units of local administration and self-government that receive funds from European funds to ensure their 20, 25, 35% participation. So, the one who is capable enough to get some EU funding through his own programme, that he has already secured his participation. To many local administrations and self-government, this would be important assistance and significant security. In that sense, modern foundations must go. This is a PR law that seeks to provide additional attention to the media... a television presence, while bypassing the transparent procedure of the councils that have the prescribed criteria at the Ministry of Culture and that someone decides when and when they will send a painter to which exhibition they may receive something from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what this law is for. And one more thing. I must say, at the beginning of this government's term, there was one good decision at the Ministry of Culture. It was a decision of the multiannual financing of certain cultural programmes. With all the positive effects of this decision, it guarantees something that is extremely important in cultural and artistic action, which is security and independence from political pressures. Only so can culture and art be avant-garde to certain social events. If you have programs that you keep on a political short chain every year and you start them off each year with a regulation on the allocation of lottery funds that you will have to take again by the way from the cultural programs, then it has nothing to do with the culture and art of a dear colleague and colleagues. Then it's a period of the Cold War, in the '50s, when you were thinking about what and how to finance in culture. Thank you very much. Since we tried to discuss and improve this law in our first reading and that no substantial remarks were adopted by the HDZ Club will accept the final proposal of the Law on the Foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47472	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47473	I support almost every word of your presentation that was really clear how they like to say it transparently but also explained by many arguments that stand. But what I wanted to say to us in the Croatian Parliament is that it is the custom to vote the laws that we have coloquially named according to the names of those to whom it actually applies. So it was just to say this way I wouldn't want to offend anyone, but we know that over the past few years there was this guy, Lex Shakespeare, so he was lex Komadina, so he was lex Perkovic, so here's what we could do about your presentation, and since I'm almost in agreement to call lex Pusic-Zlatar. Because what you said would come to, that this law and unprepared, is completely unprepared in view of what you are, the criteria you spoke about in connection with the selection of exhibitors, etc., since it does not write the school preparation necessary for membership in the Management Board, therefore there is no indication in the legislative proposal and this is the final legislative proposal. So, this law is unprepared and messy, but it's tendant in terms of what I said in my first sentence of this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47474	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47475	So when you look at the goals that are supposed to be for this Foundation "Croatian House" then you will see that all these goals exist just outside of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture has a very solid system of reporting public needs financing in culture, from 15th to 19th of each year for the following year for various aspects of cultural action. They pass two councils, and only at the end of the signing of the minister. So there's such a transparent system, and that the Ministry of Culture can't object to him. When someone decides to travel somewhere, especially in the region, it's very convenient to have an exhibition of cultural events, and then you start a trust fund, and then you put funds into it, and within a week, you worry about what you already have in offer, or the chairman of that Board of Directors has a foundation in mind. Because since there's no conditions for members of the Governing Council here, it can really be forgiveness for someone who has nothing to do with culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47476	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47477	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Mesic, you have noticed very nicely here that this Law on the establishment of this foundation does not provide new funds. And the law itself and the way it is proposed to function is a hybrid system. But a hybrid system that makes it a great way to skip an existing system. But when you're in that hybrid system to the man who brings the acts and executes acts, you don't define those to whom he will give authority, then you're in a position to talk about responsibility with your own property for the damage you've done simply falls into the water. Therefore, unfortunately this law was neither made with trends that are currently in Croatia, and I am not speaking in Europe, unfortunately did not give the possibility that those who might have invested money in this foundation, which are primarily Croatian emigrants because the Committee on Croats outside of Croatia asked the explicits to stress in the law that members of the Management Board were representatives of either the Croatian brotherly community or the queen of the emigrants or someone who was therefore gathering, and above all the Catholic Church. And we can talk today whatever we want if it wasn't for the Catholic Church and the Catholic missions, probably most of the cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia would be lost. However, those who have been there all these years where no one from the state government has maintained that Croatian identity have no right to be in this foundation, and they are the only ones who might have any interest and desire to invest in that foundation some money to finance some new projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47478	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47479	This is absolutely true, fellow Shuker, and among other things, as not at all in this bill, the possibility of participation of the Ministry of Science, and the preservation of Croatian language, and what we have already spoken to the Croatian Tourist Board, Croatian Chamber of Commerce or anything that could financially help the operation of such a foundation. But you know very well that all these foundations in the world that are countering a certain issue of income and entrepreneurship that almost 4.8% of GDP are saying it all the time and trying to tell colleagues from the SDP, how many of you in your local administrations and self-government want to apply to some European funds, EU funds and, among other things, in the field of culture? Would it suit you if the foundation provided that part of your participation that you would be obliged to pay if you made those funds and won? How many of you have a monument to rebuild? How many of you have a library to build, complete, equip? And then how can you blindly vote that even from the little funds that were intended for cultural needs in your local units you release in this way without knowing where it's going? But unfortunately, my colleague Shuker, I'm afraid we won't be able to convince our colleagues and colleagues this time in what we're telling them, but they'll be convinced of their lives very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47480	Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47481	Dear counterpart Mesic, I will ask perhaps one question, whether this law is a public recognition of the government of the Republic of Croatia that they made a grave mistake in the budgets when they reduced all those positions that were intended to help Croatians outside Croatia, etc., etc. But what stings the most here at the end of the line is someone saying that that 200 thousand kuna funny money. Well, it's not that funny money that needs to be earned in particular, but especially when it's known that the control of that money and what will come into the foundation is available to only one person or one person who submits the report to himself practically, so there's no control at all. On the other hand, I have never received an answer to that question, how much did it cost to promote Croatian culture in Paris, how much money? We never got an answer, nor could we read it. It was a nice event, but first of all we're interested in how much it cost. On the other hand, I really believe that there is no and should not be any promotion of foreign policy, and since we have experience here in the Croatian Parliament, let us speak plainly and loudly when we are already passing the law and I see that there is no article that is related in the way of selecting the President of the Board has no indication of a public tender or, who will be the chairman of the Foundation's administration? So I don't believe my colleague Grubisic is mentioning certain names I don't believe will be the minister of the management of that foundation but simply here is the deputy minister I believe and he knows who will be the chairman of the foundation's administration and who will be spending the money unsupervised.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47482	Thank you. The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47483	As far as Croatia's partner country of the French cultural season is concerned, if a good memory serves me, was foreseen by the Ministry of Culture, the funds were slightly more than 4 million with 50% of the event being financed by the Republic of France and on that side is good. It's good because he had a targeted and elaborated programme, because it covered the entire cultural action, so eventually the drafts of the programme were made three years ago when the menu was appointed, etc. However, the effects were positive, of course, if they were going with a goal. And how you'll better propagate your culture, encourage your culture, so if you want foreign policy than when you have a elaborate plan... but that's not here. I'll remind you of a public debate about how people experienced this when the Dog Protection Alliance reported that this is the way to promote the indigenous Croatian breed of dogs, which is nice and sympathetic to this memo, but it talks enough about the ambiguity of this foundation. And not to say that in these trends the EU is looking for and going completely dangerous, completely, it simply has nothing to do with current cultural policies. It has nothing to do with the current cultural industries and has nothing to do with how culture and entrepreneurship and creative activities are currently promoted in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47484	Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47485	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, you gave an inspired speech but here I was asked to correct you with a replica because it seems to me that in two things you left a concern. Namely, speaking of the intentions of adopting this law, you spoke of the Deputy Prime Minister as someone who is as a gray eminence behind the law because this foundation is aimed at promoting the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you to use the official term in the future because you might think you're talking about the second vice president of the government. Namely, if the person you spoke of is the Deputy Prime Minister, then it is necessary to point out that is the first Deputy Prime Minister, although the second one has not yet been installed, but it is probably a matter of time. And the second question is the staff policy you wonder about is that there are no conditions for members of the board of directors of the foundation. At the beginning of the term of office of this government we heard that it was not important, we heard that the school prepares, experience and dialing in this revolving doorways as it was said to human policy was neglected but it was only important to belong to certain political options. So don’t be surprised that the foundation will also be managed by those whose formal criteria for certain places are not important at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47486	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47487	Well, dear colleague Mlakar, I must say that as far as the first part of your replica is concerned, unfortunately I was wrong because I did not stress that this was the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to be elaborated in this Government proposal and listed as the first person to represent, among other things, this Law. I thought when I pointed out that it was two members of the government from the ranks... I thought that was meant to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the appointment with the criteria, you know colleague Mlakar, not only what you say is not the criteria for refurbishing functions as you mentioned, but we went to the wrong appointments there and where the conditions are prescribed. So we have recently witnessed that from the Administrative Court a verdict regarding the appointment of an archive in Osijek, it will be better known by colleagues and colleagues from Osijek, from Slavonia where more than one person who met the criteria for the appointment of a designated person who had far the worst criteria and of course that the appointment fell in the administrative court. There'll be more cases like that. A similar will happen in Dubrovnik with a state archive being prepared, similar will happen in other places because such a tendency is simply done. What's going to happen to the other appointments? We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47488	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47489	Although, fellow Mesic, that is what you are expected to do. So the purpose and purpose of this Foundation is very well recorded because it stands in the law but you fellow Mesic and the opponents of this Bill see everything that does not appear in the Law and so do you. So, the purpose of the Foundation is to promote Croatian language and Croatian culture and of course not primarily Croatian politics. Although, of course, by promoting language, culture, promotion and Croatia, Croatian foreign policy. And that's clear, you can understand from this text of the law if you want to. You are here with this Foundation, therefore this intensity which can naturally yield great profits for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it's not possible to guarantee by any law that neither of these, you take the decision of the ministers, to their promotion, to their personal promotion, to their foster homes. It's obviously the way you look at things and look at how the government should function, including this Foundation. But I'm only going to look back here at one dimension that shows the unfoundedness of your facilities. In fact, you are talking about the fact that this Foundation does not have the possibility of applying to the European Union Fund, which, of course, is not true, is not explicitly mentioned in this Act, but of course there is this possibility. And that this Foundation would serve to co-finance local self-government projects is completely pointless. This Foundation doesn't need to do that. I agree that's what the Ministry of Culture should do. But I hope you've set up such good solutions in that sense while you've had that opportunity so that this problem doesn't actually exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47490	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47491	The last part of the replica is right for you, Mr. Rados, I did lay good foundations so that you voted for my bill because they were good and today they are being spent in the Ministry of Culture, not one has been changed. Among other things, the Culture Foundation is new. When I spoke about the Foundations, I said that there should possibly be a foundation, as regards the application to the European Funds. You can, by this law, apply to whatever fund you want in the world. However, the application does not meet the basic criteria. You didn't listen to me very carefully, and that is, the basic criterion is entrepreneurship in culture. I particularly apostrophe of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister to destroy the system. And you know about the law? I'm quite literally reading it to you. From the beginning to the end. So now I'm going to read you the first indent of "The Purpose of the Foundation." And he says, "The Foundation is funding activities programmes in... The two-point first indent is primarily promoted by Croatian foreign policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Great. Well then, Croatian culture, art, then contemporary Croatian art that I have already led you to believe there is a Foundation for whose Law and you voted because you know it's good and that's why it's working on it now. And only Croatian culture, art, history and learning Croatian language in 4th place. So come on, please. But as far as I'm concerned, let me get this straight. When I was talking about what kind of bill the law should possibly go with, at this point, then I said that I should go with a proposal for a Fund Act that would provide the means to pool funds so that that participatory share could be ensured for those who succeed in their cultural programmes to vote on the European Union's funds. It's the best promotion of culture, cooperation is on the international cultural agenda, so if you want foreign policies. In that direction, such a proposal of the Foundation Act would support me as you supported ours when they were good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47492	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47493	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The second is reading the Law, but the debate is mostly as if it were the first reading. But, well, you can, we can afford to argue a little bit more. That we're having a bit of a broader discussion, yes, but we're not telling the truth. And here it was said that this government takes care of Croats outside Croatia so it reduces their resources so that when one representative says it again in the replica, it turns out it's true. And unfortunately for our sakes, the Croats outside of Croatia are fortunately not true. The funds so far have been in different positions of different ministries for this purpose, from the Ministry of Culture, Education and Science, Finance, etc., are now united in one place through the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia and these funds are not reduced but on the contrary. And in particular, an item relating to projects in culture, education, science and infrastructure towards Croats in BiH, it has not been reduced but has been increased by 30%. So in the conditions where the budget is cut on all items because the crisis is, there is no money, this item is not that we didn't cut, not that we left the same thing but we increased 30% but here it says in this assembly that the funds towards Croats outside Croatia are reduced, one says the other repeats and turns out to be so. Well, it's not because the facts are completely different. But this is a classic story that has been trying to inauguration here for years by HDZ and their approximate political partners, which is that the SDP and the uptake of the left coalition have no understanding for Croats outside Croatia, that we are malts not against them, as when they come they are screwed are Croats outside Croatia etc. It is a stereotype that is successfully I could say trying to place all these years, but the stereotype is a stereotype, the facts are facts, they are quite different and here may these facts help to make these stereotypes slightly collapse, and if you do nothing to a colleague from, those who swear a lot to Croatia to do so at least arguedly. However, when we brought this budget here in the Parliament this year, which is still in force, not only do I understand that HDZ is against the budget but they forced or finely made it impossible for MPs elected in the 12th Election Unit, representing Croats outside Croatia to vote against that budget because they are sitting in their club, although we have just increased the funds for those Croats outside Croatia, so whose task is to exactly fight for those Croats outside Croatia and when those funds have been increased in the budget for those Croats outside Croatia, these representatives are voting against, not because they are against but because of their big brother, the coalition partner HDZ, in whose club, were in some way forced to do so. Who knows what would happen to them if they voted yes. So much for facts. About the law, there's a lot of talk here that's homework. The task is mentioned in a few indents, but the main one is that in the world a better and stronger Croatian culture has been promoted in all its segments, which has been done so far through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through diplomatic consular representations with the help of the Ministry of Culture. And so far it's been done, they've done all the government. It is a national interest, to promote your culture and to present yourself to the world as a country that has something to show, a country that has its cultural heritage, cultural creation, and not some wild country in the Balkans. And we really have something to show for it, and that's what we've been doing. Now through this foundation it is only trying to do this even better and to provide additional resources that will be made available through lottery funds. Nothing more and nothing less. About overlapping, it is true that we have the State Office for Croats outside Croatia which was founded a year and a few days ago, this government has put it into office. It is true that there is a Croatian queen emigrant with her decade-old tradition and now we get this foundation. And I was saying in my first reading that there should be no overlapping of jurisdiction, and as far as I can see and from the reasoning and conversation, everyone will do their job. So the foundation will promote Croatian culture abroad, recent, and everything we have, which we have created in these decades, centuries since we exist. The Croatian queen of emigrants will continue to do her part of the work that she did and which should be doing, to take care of our first and foremost emigrants, but also Croatians where national minorities are, above all, encouraging their cultural creation, encouraging language learning, maintaining cultural ties with Croatia, educational programs to work, so to strengthen the relationship of those people living outside with Croatia, which she has done so far will continue to continue and should not and I do not see that there will be overlapping. And as a state office, the state office will deal with general, political, economic status and all other issues of Croats outside Croatia, so I do not see that there should be problems. About the composition of the board of directors. It was an observation and I gave it on behalf of the SDP Club and the Committee's session, that as it was proposed in the first reading that the Committee should not be drawn up in this way because it was quite reduced to the representatives of civil society organisations themselves that they should participate and may be on the board of directors. I think it was unnecessary reduction, and now it's left with the possibility that practically very broadly that the board of directors has virtually no limitations, people can act in any segment of culture, science, and they don't even have to be on the board of directors, and I think that's good. Of course, there were little and incorrect words here that the position of the board for Croats outside Croatia to be prescribed inside and to be representatives of the Croatian World Congress or the Croatian Catholic mission so that it is not true. There were such discussions on the board, but it wasn't the position of the board, so it was such a debate, but this was neither prevented nor prevented, no one was prevented from being, but it wasn't prescribed to anyone and it wasn't to anyone that only he could be as it was in the original proposal. We see from the law that board members will work without compensation, so there is no, how much we have talked to representatives of the Ministry of Culture and on the board is officially said there will be no new employment, that there will be no work with existing people working at the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is therefore no additional employment, there is no additional costs in this sense, and if we succeed in making an additional shift in this, in promoting Croatian culture in the world I think we have done a good job. Here, of course, you are already talking about how it's possible that different abuses will occur, to great harm, someone can sign a million-dollar contract, no liability, etc., I understand it and I don't understand it. I don't understand why you doubt in advance, but I understand when your HDZ colleagues say that because they speak from their own experiences. Whatever they started, whatever they were doing, they were doing that kind of damage, so now they're afraid this government is going to do it, too. Well, not all governments are the same, this one might be a little different. For us, the public sector, public enterprises and others do not exist to gather and ask them for money for the party, but to provide a service to citizens and to be as rational and efficient as possible. That's where we're different. And I understand your concern that this government could do the same, but it won't be safe because this is another and different government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47494	Jasen Mesic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47495	Dear colleague Jelusic, to me is a clean start so-called In the ministry when I left, I found zero financial errors, so I'm not afraid to talk about it. And I can talk about it for 13 days. I'm sure I wasn't being treated by the Committee for the Conflict of Interests, which deals with half your government, I'm sure it couldn't have happened to me. So I know exactly why I'm saying it. So there's no way you're going to find a breach in financial operations during the period because it wasn't there. There's no way I wouldn't be able to talk about it now, because I've never been the subject of a discussion by the Committee for Conflicts of Interest. So much for the differences between us, that's where we're different. As far as the need is concerned, there is a programme implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a competition where Croats outside the Homeland apply for funds in culture, education, health care, and I probably forgot something. He was worth over 16 million kunas. For culture, it was usually between eight and eight and a half million. That part of the funds has been cut. And that's true. It's so true that I'm willing to publicly apologize that I was wrong to say wrong, and I expect you... that you're fighting at the SDP club next time that it doesn't happen, and I assure you, my colleague, that this happened, that the funds for the culture of those 16 million have been reduced, and that is sensitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47496	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47497	When I talked about the way you did, I didn't speak about you personally, and I don't think about you personally. I was talking about how HDZ ruled and how HDZ's government worked, and I'm glad you didn't try to argue with it in an argument because of course you don't have the arguments. As for the cutbacks. So I'm going to repeat, this particular item that you and I are talking about here, and now the competition is over for those funds, there are 400 and some demands have been increased. So it was 15, now it's 20 million. So, not 16 but 15. It's 20 million now because it's increased. How much of it will go for the culture program, as much for the health care, as for the infirmary, as for the schools, as for the culture, as no one knows about the infrastructure at this time, because the commission will decide. Now whether more funds will go to culture and less health care more this or not, but important that the total funds are increased and that they will all get, that they will get more. Whether culture will get more or less at this time no one knows whether health care will be more or less, but the fact is that when everything is summed up it will be more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47498	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47499	Col. Jelusic, of course you are right when you talk about the fact that it is not, of course, the basic task of this foundation to promote Croatian foreign policy and of course it is visible from all the, indents listed here in this law. It probably shouldn't have put such an indent in the first place, that these pointless arguments the opposition has, that is, here the representative of HDZ who spoke on behalf of the club focussed on it. Because the obvious promotion of Croatian foreign policy in all of this, therefore, by all other indents cannot be a fundamental task of this foundation. If this is about promoting Croatian foreign policy, then it is about promoting Croatian foreign policy in the area of culture, which is clearly visible. But it does not want to be seen of course, so it is put in the first focus as if foreign policy does not have that cultural dimension and, of course, all other dimensions that are tied up and can be associated with the objectives of this foundation. So just before the HDZ Club representative talks about where the culture in the indents is listed only in fourth place, at least in the second indent after this first problematic indent on the promotion of Croatian foreign policy says promoting the presentation of wealth of Croatian culture, art and cultural heritage. But it does not want to be seen, it is deliberately falsified because it does not really want to support the fundamental purpose of this foundation, which is to promote Croatian culture in the world as a function of Croatian general national interests and of course what hurts them especially because no one else has the right to take care of it but they, which is to improve the situation of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47500	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47501	Dear counterpart Jelusic, we are witnessing if we look at the positions in the budget that the items for assistance to Croats outside Croatia have been reduced and that I remember even that mandate while I was in the SDP, I had an amendment for which even then representatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina were not allowed to vote, and that would also happen if MPs were now sitting in the SDP. We shouldn't vote because we'd have trouble with the boss, but aside from that. Here I think the problem is that no matter how hard you try, the purpose of the foundation is to promote Croatian foreign policy, and then point. I agree that foreign policy can be a cultural property, but then if we wanted to promote it, put culture, heritage, tradition in the first place, then that foreign policy could be the last place, not the first. And if we're already passing the law, we've got it all worked out, and it's even mentioned here in article 9 and the taboo and the sideline, blood, etc. We could then, as representatives, know the deadline of 60 days to pass the statutes, so that within 10 days, it would be delivered to the state administration. So I ask who's finally president of the Croatian House Foundation? Who? Why keep it a secret? On the other hand, I believe that I will end up in promoting culture, heritage and tradition should be a major part of Croatian television. So here's to watching all the information shows during the student circuits I didn't notice as many cameras, so many minutes in the journal as it was during the gay parade in Zagreb and Split. And that's culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47502	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47503	Well, I know it's nice, but the gay parade is obviously a bigger culture than student bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47504	Sit down, colleague Vinkovic. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47505	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47506	You said you were a witness to a budget cut by Croats outside Croatia. You're not a witness to that because the facts are completely different. That these funds are now, they are in total about 110, 112 million is united in the State Office for Croats outside Croatia, not reduced but increased. And especially for these items so help programmes in culture, education and procedures and other for Croatians... And it increased by 30%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those are the facts. So you're not a witness to the budget shrinking, but you're a witness to something else. You are a witness to the support of the untruth given by the HDZ why you want to testify and support HDZ's falsehood is your business. Therefore, feel free to continue to bear witness to HDZ support in their spoken lies when it comes to this item, you can, but you are not a witness to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47507	On behalf of the club... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Vinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47508	... Article 219 of that old Rules of Procedure, I have to say, I didn't get a new one. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague, if you'll excuse me, I am not a witness to either HDZ or SDP, I can read the budget very well. And don't impose on me and stuff me into some to say fences like you're all alone. Say hello to Zoki!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47509	This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you haven't even called in the old Rules of Procedure for a good article. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47510	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow ladies and gentlemen. So, the small law, seemingly with relatively few articles but a lot of debates and needs to establish a lot of obstacles. So immediately at the beginning, Mr. Deputy, I will suggest that although today is the vote, the last day of work before the summer break of the Croatian Parliament, that you decide to send this law to the third reading. There are too many remarks that you really need to consider, I think that would be an exit because the comments in the debate also concern the intentions that are no doubt good, but the purposes, objectives, means, ways of using the programme that will implement the foundation and much more openly and in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which I will talk about later. So here it was said when it came to the purpose of the foundation and the objectives that there are institutions doing this job that are listed here as a job that will promote, or implement, the foundation. I'd say actually something else, there are ministries and there's a job listed here in the foundation's work programme is actually the job of the ministries. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Culture but also the work of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And all these jobs listed here as the purpose and objectives of the foundation are actually jobs that the ministries have to do on a regular basis. The important principle issue is that we are politicians here and, of course, we speak in the language of politics, the important principle issue is also one of the first jobs that, that is, the purpose of the establishment of this foundation. Because it is said that one of the main purposes and then, of course, the objectives of establishing this foundation are promoting Croatian foreign policy. Then we come to the question of whether it is possible to establish and whether it will be encouraged, I say this without any irony, to encourage the establishment of a foundation that will promote Croatian internal politics, Croatian defence policy, etc. So these are all policies in the work of every government, all the work that unites and circles the government is policies, and then by that logic, if we have a foundation and we are going to establish a foundation that will promote foreign policy, then we could also set up foundations that will promote all other policies. As far as foreign policy is concerned, then, of course, the fundamental question of what would it mean to promote foreign policy? Foreign policy is being adopted, foreign policy is being co-created, and this is where I come to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia until Article 99, which says that the government and the president of the Republic of Croatia are cooperating in designing and implementing the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. So, the government and the president of the Republic of Croatia. Any president, so I'm not talking about the current president, I'm not talking about the current government, I'm talking about those who are co-creating the foreign policy that this foundation needs to promote. And the Governing Board, i.e. the main body of the foundation to promote that foreign policy, is drawn up on a proposal exclusively from the Government, corresponds to the Government, or it corresponds to the ministries, and the President or the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia which co-creates and designs this foreign policy here in no way. So he's not represented. That's one of the reasons I'm proposing a third reading, Mr. Deputy. Of course, if I return to the Constitution again, the Croatian Parliament as it says in the Constitution oversees the work of the Government and in the field of foreign policy and any other policy then it would be logical if the foundation was established that both representatives of the Croatian Parliament or representatives of the Croatian Parliament would be involved in the work of the board of directors, so the bodies that will develop programmes and direct the work of the foundation. So these are some principle issues that have not been completed and have not been touched in general and are neither in any way elaborated in this bill. I'm going back to Article 99. The Constitution and Article 2 of that article which states that "The President of the Republic to the Government's proposal and the co-signature of the Prime Minister decides on the establishment of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic abroad" and that, with the previous consent of the Founder of the Foundation or the Management Board, it will decide on the establishment of a foundation of foundations in the same diplomatic and consular representations that it decides on, as we see in the Constitution and the President of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the foundation cannot promote foreign policy if the work of the foundation is in no way influenced by the President or by the Office of the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the Government in its work and also by the implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. And finally quite equally well-intentioned, with some experience, because as a minister, I participated in the establishment of the "Croatian Children's Foundation" foundation, which is now how much information I have existing. The financial resources, the sources of revenue are not defined until the end. It wouldn't be a good idea for a foundation that's founded with such ambitious goals to actually be able to survive, depending on the games for happiness. According to that logic, how much we rely on gambling, so to finance people with disabilities to finance different associations, etc. and so in turn, it would turn out that all of us adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia have to play something daily and participate in gambling so that the resources planned to be used are sufficient. I think it is certainly not enough that the foundation depends primarily on gambling on this distribution, the distribution of course is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it would not be good if once the foundation starts its life to realize that the funds are not available and that the promotion of both Croatian culture and Croatian foreign policy is reduced to minor events and minor projects. In conclusion, I repeat again all of what the applicant has imagined as the purpose and purpose of establishing a foundation regularly in his business must be done by at least three Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus ensuring the budget of the Republic of Croatia. By the way, the budget we saw in the 2012 budget report that, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign and European Affairs had foreseen a budget of 620 million 759 thousand 636 kuna, and that it exceeded it and that it exceeded it and was executed by 669 million 822 thousand 266 kuna. However, here, for example, in the financing of friendship programmes of the Republic of Croatia, these are societies that need to promote both foreign policy and culture of the Republic of Croatia and all that is foreseen here as a purpose, therefore, of the funds provided for in the amount of 2 million and slightly more than 600 thousand kunas were used only with 51% in 2012. So the funds were, however, not spent to the end. This is why I propose in good faith because certainly the proposal's intention was not a bad intention but a good intention to go into third reading and then, by then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again consider all the comments made in this debate and perhaps ultimately make a different decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47511	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47512	Yes, colleagues, Kosor, sometimes the path to hell is paved by good intentions, they say. You said yourself that the Foreign Ministry's budget for last year exceeded 50 million kuna's budget, let's round from 620 to 670 million kuna, so by 8%, the budget. So the establishment of this foundation is also unfinished, you yourself said in terms of funding, and unprepared law. And that might be why it would be good for him to go to third reading. I agree with you. With regard to Article 3 first paragraph of Article 1 and second, the promotion of Croatian foreign policy is a priority. I think I would personally, and I think the HDSSB club would be much more pleased if it were to promote Croatian national interests. This would avoid this formulation by promoting foreign policy because it is not only the foreign policy of our country and our society, but the promotion of Croatian national interests. I believe that at the HDZ club, too, that would be supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47513	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47514	My colleague Grubisic, I am pleased that you support this proposal that the law goes into third reading. It is not so often really here in this assembly I think that this institution or this possibility of a business is not used once, it is good because it is a law that should gather us together anyway, it would be good to bring such a law of foundation by consensus. But on the promotion of Croatian national interests, I think it's such a broad notion that sometimes we abuse it. We can promote national interests every day in our work, I believe you agree on that. We should do so, therefore, by doing our job, doing our job in accordance with the Law and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We thus promote Croatian national interests best and most effectively. And this article that speaks of the purpose of establishing the Foundation should be done to the end in fact very precisely worked out, it should be further... and I certainly agree on the main objective set out here, which is to promote foreign policy, and certainly will be opened and that a logical political pair of excellent political debates is being opened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And with a fundamental question at the beginning and at the end of the day, what it is to promote foreign policy. Which is actually in its essence promoting foreign policy. And that's why it would really be good if the Proposer accepted our proposals, put everything on the table, consider, articles can, of course, change, make it work so that we can all really raise hands for this Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47515	Zorn Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47516	Here's the esteemed representative, and here's what I'll agree with you, finally, yes. And in any case, this law should go into third reading, if for nothing else, then because I believe that no amendment to this will be adopted. And here we have a president of the Foundation who reports to himself. And practically this isn't an emergency law, but here's Friday, we called this on Monday to discuss this law on this Foundation to vote today. I'm asking again who the president of the Foundation is. Well, you don't have to run from it. If we're already passing the law, then I believe he knows who the president of the Foundation is. On the other hand, the main issue is the promotion of Croatian foreign policy. In law. What does the Fund have to do with promoting Croatian foreign policy? What's the foreign minister getting paid for? What's all the deputies doing? What the entire ministry does. So whether another surrogate is needed to promote Croatia's foreign policy. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. So do we need to establish the Pinklet Foundation for Social Policy? Do we need for the Ministry of Education and Sports, cultures have the same similar foundations that will especially promote these types, garden policies. Now let's not mention any other names. And in promoting Croatian culture, heritage, history, art, first of all, let's call on Croatian TV that has satellite so that it can finally promote Croatian history, Croatian culture, Croatian language, Croatian heritage, and then it won't Then they won't, I've got nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] against man, he will not be chosen by Djelo Hadziselimovic, but he may be chosen by Zoran Vinkovic and the Croatian people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47517	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47518	Thank you very much to my colleague Vinkovic for what you said at the beginning of the replica to finally agree with me on something, it was worth living and thank you for having me. I really appreciate it. Still, it made sense and purpose to live and work, I'm joking a little bit of course. As for your comments again on the promotion of foreign policy. Promoting foreign policy is essentially business, basic work and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. So that's a zero point of course. But I am going back to the Constitution and Article 99 of the Foreign Policy the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are co-creating. And then it's all about what they have to decide together. Therefore, promoting Croatia's foreign policy and promoting Croatia was yesterday's stay in Paris, of course it was promoting Croatia and then through that Croatian foreign policy. So if we have a body to run the Foundation then and if we have one of the specifics of promoting foreign policy, it is at least illogical that a representative of the President or of the Office of Presidents does not sit on that board and decide something. A team as predicted as I said earlier that I could start some branches. Where? According to diplomatic consular offices that will be established without the knowledge of the Office of Presidents and Presidents who are co-creating foreign policy. So at least it doesn't make sense. So here I am glad you support the possibility of a third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47519	For such a possibility, you must reach a conclusion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the representative, independent, Club of Independent Representatives of counterpart Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47520	Dear Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, distinguished gentlemen of the council. All in all about one banal, I don't know the undeniable initiatives we've once again created a national problem couple of excellences. And when those outside Croatia see that they are dedicated to the Croatian Parliament, I have the impression that they would be the happiest not to be cared for in this way. Why? For they will certainly not be better off from this great care, and the Republic of Croatia will not be better off either. What is said here in the light of this bill? And I quote: "In a number of other European countries, promotions of national culture, art, language, national cultural heritage take place through this purpose established legal persons who in other countries establish their branches, cultural centres which are tasked with directly presenting national culture and art in host countries, including learning language, exhibitions, performances and organising other cultural content and forms of international cultural cooperation. Such institutions, for example, are now listed by the French Institute, the Estonian Institute, the Polish Cultural Institute, etc., to identify. Clearly, Croatia is neither Poland, Croatia is neither France nor this time in 2013, it may not be 1947 or 1948. So this is how I experience it should be some attempt to draw attention to Croatia and why not. Clearly, Croatia should not ignore any other mechanisms, MPs mentioned them, by Matica Hrvatska, from the Croatian Emigrant Queen, the Croatian World Congress Centre. Mrs. Kosor mentioned the Croatian Office outside Croatia, we're all talking about embassies, we're all talking about consulates. Here I may be the first to mention the Croatian brotherly community of the United States. Someone mentioned Catholic missions, friendship societies, etc., etc. So in one word, when it comes to focusing on Croatia, when it comes to the interests of Croats abroad, there should be probably all of them under the same flag. In the country let politics be conducted, as is being conducted here in the assembly, of the two Croats says the sayings of three parties, but outside Croatia means we should share the promotion of the Republic of Croatia. And clearly, on the trail at that point, I'm going to put an emphasis on that, at that moment of current policy, as we also know that policies are clearly changing. Once it will be representatives of this group of parties, twice another, in a 10-year or 15-year period, maybe a third. Croatia is today the 28th member of the European Union, I think a whole series of barriers have fallen, including those of Croatia that were in the heads of some European politicians until the 1990s or until 2000. Okay, I agree, Croatia also had this handicap, which ex-Yugoslavian diplomacy promoted some other policy although, in view of diplomatic Yugoslavia, it was very diplomatically recognizable, but it certainly was not in any way in the interest of turning the attention of Croatian national interests. Now Croatia in the European Union, now Croatia has circled its independence, self-loathing and Croatia has definitely affirmed itself internationally, confirmed through this international not recognition but membership in the European Union and expressed itself. And such an initiative, if we can follow it financially, if such an initiative can track itself, can certainly help further the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia. If this project is embossed with new and significant costs, if this is like someone, the Duje seemed to me, telling me a modus for some new crushes, if this is a way to send people just to travel the world, then surely it won't be anything. Then no such initiative will last long and time itself will shut it down, will finally be accepted by those to whom it should address. Mr. Grubisic wondered if it was home or house. It may be closer to home to me, too, but that's less important now. I think that all of us here agree that this foundation should be as independent as possible, that it should be financially self-sustainable to put it that way, means on the market. But we would do well to know just as much as all these institutions of the mentioned queens, associations, homes, further, the community, are taxpayers. As much as it is money, as much as we have all these institutions. I'm not against it, but we would do well to simply know what these institutions are and what everything through which form is financed from the state budget. Mr Mesic mentioned that for archaeological research it was reserved this year in the budget of 1 million kuna, for healthcare we had just listened to not enough money, for culture either small or a lot of money, no one mentioned these amounts. I agree, perhaps at this point there were far greater priorities than this house and, of course, culture should be deprived of any political influence. If this house is dictated by some politician or some politician, some ministry, nothing will end up with this initiative and then it will not achieve its purpose. I also agree with those who say that everything this house has to do can be achieved by our embassies and our other diplomatic, consular representations. There's so much we could think about. We all know that Croatia is a small country, that Croatia is a modest material opportunity, Croatia is on the other side of the country of enormous needs, as well as numerous diaspora. The Croatians, in particular in neighbouring countries, should also be cared for on the basis of the Constitution itself. We have said modest opportunities, countries in our neighbourhood such as BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, etc., have even more modest opportunities. And now the normal question is how to preserve the identity I would say those people who experience themselves part of the Croatian people abroad or part of some of their national minority Croatian clear omens. I am pleased by what Mr Jelusic said that the funds for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have increased by 30%. Here it is today, as I heard from Cardinal Mr. Puljic visiting the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lek. If the funds for culture were increased, as we also heard Mr Mesic say they were not, so if they were wrong, if they were increased it would be okay. But we should also add up all the funds of local self-government and then we will also see that for these purposes in space, pardon, or the premises of our counties, cities, municipalities, the Republic of Croatia stands out hundreds of millions of kuna which I suppose is not enough, but we cannot ignore them. If we also want to help the diaspora, then no one should take the right monopoly to represent that diaspora either in the world or abroad. But today I have the impression that the diaspora itself has other priorities and other positions than it may have had until yesterday. It would be logically higher than that of Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where the President of the Republic is co-creating foreign policy, shall include under quotes and his office in the making of this law, in particular, in the case of foreign policy, which is apostrophe in that article in the first place. And maybe it would also be good, it wouldn't be so bad if this law went to third reading. Otherwise, if this initiative is not accepted, we will vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47521	We have replicas. The first line and who is it, Blazekovic? And Bozinović. The first replica and respected representative Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47522	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Caine, you said that the debate on this but not the banal part in this section is about whether the agency, or the Croatian House, should be put first, promotes Croatian foreign policy. I think it's wrong, because in this law, the promotion of foreign policy is being placed as the primary task of this "Croatian House". This is not an accident, because in the light of the promotion of foreign policy, it is put first. I just want to warn you that similar institutions in the world that deal with this British council business, from the Estonian Institute, from Adam Mikijevic. So, all the institutions that are mentioned here in an explanation none mentions foreign policy, not mentioning politics. They're all in culture. It is policy that is being implemented, and culture is being promoted, the state is being promoted, traditions are being promoted, values are being promoted that are Croatian in this case. That's why I think that part needs to be changed because it can cause controversy especially in those countries, institutions where we want to perform with the Croatian House. They will ask themselves a question, in other words the British council today would not be what it is, and it was founded in '34, founded with the Royal Charter, so the Royal Charter. It would never be what it is if he put first to promote British foreign policy. Well, there wouldn't be any of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47523	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47524	I agree, Mr. Representative, it would be good for that foreign policy to be thrown out of the text of this law, to be thrown out of that normative part, out of the very reasoning. It would be good not to mention politics at all. Why? Because culture is a lasting value that we all kind of mirror or paint, and politics is what? The will of the ruling majority at a given time and it is as such something that is variable, which is reportedly fluid, which is one while one is a political set, another when one is another. And I agree on that lead, maybe that term of my banal debate is awkward, and I would like to repeat it well once again that this policy is not mentioned in this legal text at all, and perhaps through this form, that it gives MPs the opportunity to come up with some more meaningful content in the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47525	A new replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47526	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Cain. I'm surprised at you, Mr. Cain, because you don't understand, and I have a high opinion of your intellectual abilities. This is just stupid of the promoter for telling the truth. It's not that now. This is a fig leaf. The point of this, this house is politics, and culture is just a fig leaf cover like before the state founded different cultural institutions and they were agents of this and that. So this is the point of politics. And that is why I am afraid of this policy because I am threatening our policy today, led by Mrs Pusic. Old wisdom says, "Keep an old friend, make a new friend." We humiliated Germany, it helped us walk, and now the Germans would have the right to say to us, "Help the poor, to your shame." While we are running another policy towards the region, through some other great powers, and this is a back-up option for the management of this policy. And the promoter of this policy is Mrs Pusic, let him go to the archives of the Belgrade charter, so let him see how foreign policy is conducted, let him learn from Nikola Pasic, and then she will lead the right policy, and not now Mr Cain, what you are laughing at, she says in advance for ten years we will not bother anyone to join the EU. So you don't have to bring Ada back to Vukovar, it can be immediately whose is the Republic of Serbia today. It's a stupid policy! I'm terrified of this policy, so I'm particularly sensitive to this issue. But this is the primary pair of exellances to establish a political one organization where culture only serves as a fig leaf.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47527	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47528	... It did not help Croatia to its shame, Germany did so sincerely and represented the interests not only of Croatia but also of European interests. [[Specially enabled.]] It seems to me that I said a little while ago for a pay phone that if this project is in any way embossed with new costs, if this is a modus for some new lovemaking, if this is a way to send people to the world alone or to promote only one policy or policy then from this house or from these contents there won't be much of what we can do to help, I would say first of all to the members of the Croatian people in countries outside the Republic. And I also said that when members of the Croatian people outside Croatia see that at this moment, they are dedicated to such an initiative, the Croatian Parliament has the impression that they would be the happiest not to be discussed in this way and that through such a form they are not represented in such a way and their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47529	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47530	Dear Mr. President, colleague Cain, we cannot avoid politics or even from this foundation. Article 5 says enough, the Management Board has 5 members on the proposal of the Minister responsible for Culture and Foreign and European Affairs are appointed by the Government to appoint and resolve the members of the Committee. What I love about this jam when the assembly is full, a lot of people have come and they don't know why they're going to vote, do they? On the other hand, we have that trust if we wanted to establish what Austria has, an Austrian cultural centre, the foundation can, with the consent of the founder, establish representations, cultural centres, other non-profit legal entities abroad, etc. The question is, who's going to finance it? Who's gonna pay people who'll be employed? This isn't just 200 thousand kuna and the little one from the Croatian lottery. That's far bigger money in the game. Therefore, the proposal is not to take up your vacation time, I will not report finally on behalf of the HDSSB club, but our request is clear that this law goes into third reading. Because this law really has time and space to be fixed and if we really want to promote Croatian culture, language, heritage, tradition here in particular I mean culture when someone is talking about listening to it, and not wanting to promote it through the foundation of Croatian foreign affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then we realize that it is time for you to suggest yourself that this law goes into third reading. Because a lot of things are completely unclear. And the goal, I think, is for all of us to really promote Croatia and Croatian culture and history and everything that is related to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47531	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47532	I give up if I'm allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47533	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47534	Now I'm setting a short break of five minutes. We have two further discussions on the final proposal of the "Croatian House-Croatia House" Foundation Act. But in order to make sure, will you start talking right now? Here you go, then there's no pause, here you go. It's Boris Blazekovic's turn. Here you go. Here's a colleague of Blažekovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47535	Thank you very much, Vice President. The debate is about the law, you can all leave, it's nothing important. "I have laid down for you all the brave men my eyes upon my eyes. I appeared glorious, and read high, and the voice of my division spread out wide." Those are the lyrics of Marulic's "Judits". And this beautiful song from 1501 first written in Croatian, Croatian cultural treasure. And I want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47536	Please, colleagues, I wanted to allow you to speak in peace but you did not agree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47537	According to the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to provide me with... I won't at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Croatia also has a rich educational and lexicographic history and the present. We have a Croatian encyclopedia unfinished from the 40s last and completed from the beginning of this century. We have an encyclopaedia of fine art. A Croatian literary encyclopedia was recently issued. We have Croatian lexicon, we have several excellent history of Croatian art. All this says that the Croatian cultural heritage is simply invaluable from the ancient times, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Croatian modern to this day. In all branches of human activity, architecture, urbanism, art, science, literature, shipbuilding, industrial development. Croatia has a unique language, 24 languages of the European Union and we are proud of the legacy of the preserved old Croatian letter Glagolitic. From Inkunabul to Kosinjski thought it is simply impossible to mention everything and it is impossible not to mention Marulić, Gundulić, Mažuranić, Shenou, Krlež or numerous other greats of Croatian European and world literature or science, let's say Bošković and many others. It's a bit inconceivable, so a relatively small country with a equally incredibly turbulent history has such a fascinating cultural heritage. And historically, always modern and key and key historical moments of the development of European civilization. And only in the 1990s did we manage to be united and left alone. And we founded in the Homeland War created, our own independent sovereign state. As such, we entered the most modern economic political community of the most advanced countries in the world by our own will 15 days ago. And we are bringing into this Europe and in front of its citizens all this great cultural heritage as a contribution that unfortunately the citizens of the same European Union do not know in the majority. Our entry into the European Union in a number of European media is mostly superficially ignored as a country full of black past with a disastrous economy, as a country that will be another difficult weight for the European Union. So, cynicalally, I've already said superficially, ignoringly, and mostly incorrectly. Yes, Croatia is in economic trouble. Yes, the tragic war and all its consequences and the particularly bad and criminal leadership have led us to a greater crisis than it should have been as a consequence of the global crisis. But Croatia itself, or all of its citizens, is seeking its way out of the crisis and this burden and price of wages and will pay Croatia and its citizens themselves. The well-intentioned and slightly more interested citizens of the European Union are slowly revealing and will reveal more and more invaluable Croatian treasures that have become their property. They discover and will discover a particularly beautiful landscape. From the Pannonian plain through the Zagorje hills, mountains and forests of the Gorski Kotar, the field of art, rivers and lakes, the long Dalmatian hinterland and the intoxicating Adriatic Sea, and its many different islands. Then they'll discover people. A little more paid for by war and porn, skepticalally against new changes and new European citizens, and below and below, the scrawny faces will reveal happy and valuable people who enjoy the beauty of life, who are both diligent and dedicated, but keep to their customs and traditions, who always celebrate with a rich table, laughter and song. And when the saddest sheath is at the end, it resonates with laughter and the joy of life. Then they will discover small towns, small towns and large cities, reveal their history, deepen into their legends and fates, and start to understand us slowly and start to appreciate ours and their heritage. Students, professors, scientists from other countries will study Croatian culture and art more deeply. In order to help him do so and to speed up the scientific and cultural community of the European Union, but to bring it closer to all our European citizens, a great idea of establishing the Croatian House. The Foundation of such species can and certainly, with the help of all, primarily the HAZU, all departments and all employees of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the university communities, cultural institutions, will best promote the truth about Croatian history and culture, art, language, cultural heritage, Croatian customs. The "Croatian House" should not be a subcommittee for false impression of us, it is suggested as imagined and should be as a house of truth in the world, a house of truth about Croatia and its citizens yesterday and today. In everyday life and all sorts of day games we will prove ourselves to our abilities and incompetences, successes and failures. Our entrepreneurs and the entire economy will, for some time, fight less well in the demanding, huge European market. Our institutions will seek as much efficiency and level as possible so that they can mate with the institutions of the European Union. Our experts and scientists will compete, but also prove daily in competences and cooperation with colleagues from Europe, but this is quite another topic we live and we will live long believe in a stable and secure environment. "Croatian House-Croatia House" is a particularly valuable project of the Croatian state, one of the projects that should not fail, which should not be semi-successful, let alone failure. The Croatian House is a project that will bring us closer to the great world, but who knows maybe for ourselves. "If you give enough till the earth is on the cards of the Slovak-read letters. Pregnant of this sails here the sails of the blues my new. "Praise God who makes the heavens and all others." This is how Marulic ends his unbeatable Judith and says "amen", and I am giving unreserved support to the foundation "Croatian House". [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47538	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. You want a final? Deputy Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, very short. Wait a minute, a few answers to these discussions that were there and questions. They mentioned institutes, centres, forums, etc., they still exist, continue to work, change and adapt to all the times and situations that are coming. So I will remind again the French Institute of Culture who has been partnered with the Ministry of Culture in the realisation of the Croatian Festival programme in France. I remind you once again that both the British council and the Austrian Kulturforum and the Institute of Italiano di cultura and the French Institute of Culture are all institutions related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not the Ministry of Culture. Since we don't have such an institute, we don't have a forum, we don't have something called the Institute or something like that, the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Culture carried out this idea where I think for the first time in fact it can be legally justified what is needed, which is that the two ministries continue to cooperate, and now it is bound by this foundation, and that is precisely to be recognised, so let's say, that the Ministry of Culture is that professional body or professional body that it should be, it gets the obligations, but it gets the right to choose, propose and along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, using all the resources that already exist to organise better representation of Croatia in the world. Furthermore, today there have been a series of comments and questions, doubts, mistrusts, questions about why there is no law. The law is a framework, all the other details that concern, for example. the limitations of the chairman of the Management Board at the disposal of the assets, the expert prepares members of the Management Board, the adoption of certain regulations, the rules establishing the criteria for the programmes. All this will be done by the statute of the foundation. So the framework, and what is important, is the co-operation of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. This term that has burned the discussion so much today, Croatia's foreign policy actually has its own political aspect and no one can forget that the British council is also the expression of British politics and, regardless of what it is, it has its own political dimension and neither the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs nor the Ministry of Culture will be able to forget that certain projects and programmes will have to realise or try to realise in the region, in Europe or in the world in accordance with political realities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47540	I thank the Deputy Minister. I conclude the debate and conclude the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. The obligations of MPs outside this assembly do not stop. I wish you rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47541	Next is the Final Bill of Foundations "Croatian House-Croatia House", second reading, PZ No. 336. The debate on the text of the final law is over. In line with the proposal of the HDSSB and Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and Croatian MPs, I give the following conclusion to the vote: "The final bill on the foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House" will be carried out on the third reading." Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority, but let's check it out. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I repeat my vote. Who's in? ... /The noise in the hall./... I repeat my vote. Who's in? Nothing. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I would like to conclude that the proposal was voted on by 11, against the Opinion 81 votes and abstentions 24. I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47542	Mr. President, I think that since you have reiterated the vote, although it has been quite certain after the vote, all those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, but also of the vote. In this way, we could repeat the vote on all the points of the agenda until we get the desired result. So, I think it was quite certain after the vote, I won't say first because I think try to remember a similar case, it was clear that if it wasn't against and there were no abstentions then our proposal was voted upon, so everyone was in favour. No, I repeat, after the vote there was no objection, votes against and there were no votes abstentions. It is clear, then, that at the time when the vote was voted, it was considered such a good suggestion that we could accept it by acclaiming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47543	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It's an interesting interpretation, of course I don't accept such an interpretation. Why, because the vote in favour of your proposal for a conclusion voted only 6 MPs, the conclusion needed most of the MPs present, which is not controversial to you or to me, and my conclusion may have been unnecessary that the conclusion did not go through and we continued to vote on what may have puzzled the MPs and therefore we reiterated the vote. But he didn't get the necessary majority of the proposal. This shall be in accordance with Article 257. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The votes of MPs present in the hall, and they did not vote for or against the proposal, and they did not say to refrain from voting, are considered abstentions. In order for the conclusion to be accepted, it is necessary to have an active relationship of representatives, so to vote for more than half of them. Thank you very much. So the conclusion was not accepted. ... It was all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wanted to confirm the result. Thank you very much for the suggestions. Let's move on. The amendments were submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club to the draft law. Amendment to the Final Proposal of the Law "Croatian House-Croatia House", Amendment 1, who defends? I would like the representative of the motionant to point out Amendment number one of the HDSSB Representatives Clubs. You can have a pay phone here. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47544	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. The amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives is not accepted. The reason is that we hold that there is no need to change the name of the foundation and that the Croatian house – the Croatian house is the appropriate name of the foundation in accordance with all activities and with all the tasks the foundation has, and we have checked that so is the linguistic one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47545	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47546	He was a respected representative, Boro Grubisic. But here's the thing, since the amendment wasn't accepted, we're asking for a vote on one note, so that was before the summer, so that God and the devil would forget what was said. A little while ago, it's been a long time to discuss it. Some points are put to the vote too long after the vote has been held so that some things need to be put in place by the little president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47547	Dear counterpart Josip Salapic, this was discussed on the last day of the meeting before the summer break, so there was no extraordinary session possible because of the vote on this law to make an appointment, nor were there any proposals for it. Amendment number 2 of the same club Did we vote? [[No, no. We have to vote.]] We didn't? Okay. Let's be clear about the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club to Amendment number one which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Can the reasons for amendments number two to the same club of representatives, the respected deputy minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47548	The amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club number two is not accepted either. We believe that the activities of the foundation should be in line with Croatian foreign policy, and that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia that are operating abroad should, in the context of their capabilities, tasks, duties, be obliged to promote the interests of the Republic of Croatia which we hold to be both cultural policies and foreign policies, so that the proposal as well as such is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47549	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47550	Thank you, Mr. President. We're looking for a vote with another brief note. Although there have been recent days of business opportunities allow for the final days of the session to also be voted on on agenda points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47551	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number two. A HDSSB representative club in the Croatian Parliament. Who's the government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Deputy Secretary. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most votes 81 votes for and 33 votes against and one abstention passed the Act on Foundation "Croatian House – Croatian House" in the text as proposed by the proposing together, and there are no amendments accepted. Nothing. Let's go to the next one. Now we'd like to approach the vote on the things we discussed. Please establish quorum, presence in the hall. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats in the bench. Do not send messages but sit down where you belong so that we can determine the quorum, please. Honorable ministers, members of the government, vice-presidents of the government, take your seats. Welcome! I warmly welcome you to the Croatian Assembly! Please state in the hall, in the hall. Thank you very much. We have enough MPs present to be able to decide on all matters that are on the agenda to decide. Now I'd like to move on to the vote. A proposal for trust. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47553	Your Honor, Mr. President. I've only asked for a word on behalf of the club, I'm not going to irritate my colleagues by asking for a session of the club, I just want to repeat once again the request we made at this session. We asked you in writing that we see that the traffic light has now been improved by yellow, we have written a request for answers and a check of the quorum from the last session, which is why we claim that a whole series of decisions and laws have not been legally passed, because the vote was insufficient for most MPs. We did not ask you to answer our written request, I repeat it here because you force us to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court unless the question of quorum is resolved from this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47554	I understand the question, I understand the memo, at the last session I answered you here from the President's desk, and you'll get a written answer when we determine what you're looking for. Thank you very much. So we are going with a proposal to show confidence to Ranko I will remain Minister of the Interior and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic submitted a proposal to show confidence to Ranko Ostojic, the interior minister, to perform the post of Deputy Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received a report from this Working Body of the Constitutional Committee at the session. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47555	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I find this extremely humiliating for this House of Commons. You have amended your Rules of Procedure that the Prime Minister has practically made no more decisions about him than voting for committees we have now had the case that for this vice-presidential post of the Government there is no parent board and then it was the one unfortunately I have to say the circus that was, and today Mr Ostojić as a candidate for the Vice-President of the Government does not appear in this House when we vote on him and I think it is extremely humiliating for all MPs, and MPs have been elected by Croatian citizens. And I think that colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition will probably do so by party discipline but I think this is unprecedented in the history of the Croatian Parliament to vote on someone, to be named without him in this House of Commons. Well, if nothing else, we'll give him a round of applause for his appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47556	You can give him a round of applause. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, because he's on his way. He couldn't have known there'd be a vote today. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am voting in favour of a proposal to show confidence to Ranko Stojić, Minister of the Interior and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. To show confidence requires most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it is 76 votes for the decision to be valid. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor of the Prime Minister's proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 84 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 9 votes with abstentions of confidence from the interior minister to perform the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations to the minister and I'm sorry he's not here, but I understand, business is business. I hope he'll be there when the first session of the fall, so we'll be able to, it's important, but business is the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-15-0.u47557	Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and requests for a referendum submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative on behalf of the family and to submit the report on the verification carried out to the Croatian Assembly. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted unanimously. ... Then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, here's how we object, we have an objection to a vote. We'll do it again, we'll do it again. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted with 85 votes for, 14 against and 1 abstention.
