ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53751	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. And we will begin the session by discussing: - Final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 420; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. And the introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Economy, Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53752	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. In short, since the second reading is so we've already had one constructive debate in the first reading, I'll repeat the basic thesis in the first interpretation of the law. Therefore, the main reason is to speed up the procedures that have so far either stopped or significantly slowed down and made time-consuming very unpredictable investment projects in the Republic of Croatia. The first motive when we started writing this law was actually public investment. Investments related to the realisation... and cohesion funds and their funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in order to avoid a potential problem in the slowness of our administration and public administration and problems in realisation and such projects, the motive was to write the Strategic Investments Act. But after the debate within the ministry, we concluded that we should open the door and this Law and in particular to say big investments, which unfortunately do not have much, which unfortunately do not have enough for us to consume this Law on a daily or weekly basis for these private investments but whatever number it would be good to conduct them very transparently and to realise them. I'll immediately move on to those changes we made between the first and second readings. We during the debate in the Parliament in the first reading, at the time there was an open public debate that lasted a month. We invited all the assembly clubs and the positional and opposition in the public debate, of course, and all the NGOs to help us, to give us some suggestions, to make some suggestions, to get the text that is best tomorrow for implementation and which has no doubts, that it is clear and there are no doubts in the implementation. We've received some remarks from especially from NGOs. We received very constructive remarks during the parliamentary debate that we included in this final proposal that came before you. Here, an example of this is that in the parliamentary debate it has been very reasoned that we are asking investors who are entering such a large investment BON 1, BON 2 and BON plus, and it is generally special legal entities that, if anything, these BONs will seem rather unserious or so to say unworthy of the planned project. And if we're looking again at the international institution, the financial investment or some permanent partner that goes inside, then BON 1, BON 2 is completely irrelevant as far as we're concerned, and it's really too much of an observation and we've accepted it, it was from the opposition benches. After that, it was also in the parliamentary debate that we caught and wrote down, where we asked for a request for a confirmation of impunity. As a rule, the directors are owners of the project managers who run these investment projects, come from foreign countries and ask their institutions for some form of impunity certificate that exists in our country would actually be more complicated process and then with some very serious arguments perhaps even differences in the acceptance of certain papers essentially threw out the whole article that was talking about that we needed to deliver a copy of the criminal record. Another change that has come from several sides, as a proposal and of course we have completely and overly accepted it and arguedly accepted it is that in the Committee for the Assessment and Determination of the Proposals of the Strategic Project, two members, one member of the mayor or chief of the unit, with the local unit and... where the project is realized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another appointed by the mayor from the area where it's being realized. The project, I think, has also been achieved in this way, and we have achieved a greater share of the participation of local and regional communities in the realisation of these projects. I want to repeat the basic thesis, which is that the Strategic Investment Projects Act does not devastate any existing law, it only speeds up existing processes. It cannot be put on the list, let alone more seriously consider and decide that the government will decide unless it agrees with the spatially adopted and valid spatial plan of the county, municipality or city. That means that if someone in the local unit doesn't want it to be realized there won't be a spatial plan adequate to that. And if it's not in the spatial plan at all, we're not considering it at all. And all those who say that we will skip certain procedures in a way to avoid the opinion of local and regional administrations I don't think it's justified enough. Because the spatial plan is being adopted exclusively in the bodies of local and regional self-government and they decide whether there is a chance of realising such a project. And it's good to participate in... argument, it would be good for them to participate in the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the beginning, we thought that only the adoption of the spatial plan confirms their intention, but it is good to participate in the commission for the reason that they are informed of the project's progress. Otherwise they don't know, they don't know, they've made it happen... the adoption of their spatial plan but if we don't put them as members of the commission then they probably won't have full information about what's at which stage, and that's not good. It's good that people know what's going on. The other criteria remain the same, so the criteria for selecting a strategic project are consistent with the spatial planning documents and have the total capital cost of investment equal to or greater than 150 million kuna, have the possibility of being co-financed by the European Union funds and programmes, and the total value of the project's capital costs is equal to or greater than 75 million kuna. It is achieved in assisted areas, i.e. in the areas of the unit of the regional and regional self-government of the first group and in the area of units of local self-government of the first and second group according to the law governing the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and the total value of the capital costs of investments there is less than, of course, equal to or greater than 20 million kuna and these projects on the islands are realised the total value of capital costs of investments equal to or greater than 20 million kuna. These are some logical little ones, yet good enough changes between the first and second readings. Finally, I'll just say it again. The key message is that every law that comes on the list and the government decides to appoint it as a strategic project in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the most transparent investment project in Croatia where the exact deadlines are named, means the exact deadlines needed to realise the project with the precisely responsible persons who need to take steps. All of this will be, throughout this process completely public, transparently, publishing all decisions and all steps on web pages and open other communication channels so that the public knows what is happening on a particular project. There are many examples where individual projects are realised today without knowing what stage they are, that we do not know who has accelerated or slowed them down for, and that we do not know who can expect the end of the implementation of certain projects. I think this law certainly gives, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia gives much more transparency than many today's capital projects in Croatia. Here is another sentence, so this law should be seen as an instrument that will speed up the process of coming up with total documentation for the achievement of public and private projects that are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, which should be one of the cornerstones of the rapid launch of the investment cycle and of the necessary necessary growth that we need in the coming years. I would really like to live in a country where I don't need such a law and I sincerely hope that in two years we won't need it, when we complete the reforms we started because that country that's neat, fast, effective in its public administration doesn't need this law. And unfortunately today we need that law to at least put strategic investment in order. Evidence of this is a number of investments that have come to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness and which are one by one resolved through the Working Group for Private Investments for various reasons, which, by means of three-way, passiveness, indecisiveness and non-determination of decisions of the Authority of the State Administration, is local or regional. And when we saw all this, we saw that it was actually hard to wait for the end of administrative and public administration reforms than before to adopt this law, start working, and then here after a few years if everything is okay and this law won't be necessary. We are open of course to discuss... the amendments that will come and I will repeat, we have invited you to all the constituency clubs in 30 days after the first reading to turn to us, to come talk to the Ministry of Economy, to send written proposals. We have not received any comments or suggestions from the constituency clubs, but we have received from many other institutions, some of which we have observed with our arguments, and from the constituency clubs we have received a very reasoned debate in the first round that we have well adopted. Introduce that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53753	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53754	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're saying that those who say this law excludes itself from deciding local self-government and not respecting spatial plans. Namely, you're wrong about that. And you, as former Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, know that this House discussed the Law on Spatial Planning in the first reading. This law prescribes the adoption of a state-owned spatial plan allowing the Government to establish buildings wherever it wants to be located, projects of national importance and therefore these investment projects. And that's how he leaves the unit of local self-government aside because the government's state-owned spatial plan prescribes it, and now you're adding this article to those locations that are now outside of the decision of the local self-government units, you're saying by this law that these projects don't even need an urban planning plan, that there's no need to do urban planning. This means that on the one hand, the government will determine what projects are and this law, and also the basis of a state-run spatial plan beyond local self-government, and on the other hand, you prescribe this law that when the government decides that no urban planning will be done where only local self-government can do so, if the Government will adopt such a plan, something to say, lay down the conditions for the government to build in these areas. So you're wrong. So this law and the law that we discussed in the first reading is put aside in the spatial arrangement of local self-government units, which is contrary to the Constitution, without saying that the European Charter of Local Self-Government, where it is spatially planned and exclusively placed in the jurisdiction of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53755	The reply to the replica of Minister Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53756	So esteemed representative Bačić, in fact, the Law on Spatial Planning defines what can be defined in the state spatial plan. In the state spatial plan, you will never define a shoe factory in Prelog, because it is impossible to do so, because the law does not allow a zone that will be in any other city of industry, tourism or other purposes. What is the focus of this law? You know what can go into the state space plan infrastructure, so it says there, I won't tell you traffic, etc. etc. This does not apply at all to certain industrial investments that are coming because a state spatial plan to define individual zones in individual local administrations cannot happen, and it writes to you there, but we won't talk much about that law. The first proposal also suggested that a detailed urban plan and urban planning should not be a condition for strategic investment projects by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If we had this law, we wouldn't have lost a good year and a half on Srd. So there was a referendum that failed because it was waiting in detail, the state was in front of a big, big chance of being sued and losing its dispute because we were changing the conditions that the investor had at the beginning of the project. We lost a year, two days, to end up the way he ended up. The referendum went through solely because of a detailed urban plan and urban planning in a further position. I'll just tell you a few numbers. So when we tried existing projects that exist in... put into the system as if the law was passed in this text, then we came to the conclusion [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's 15 seconds before the Strategic Projects Act for an industrial plant building would take us 13 to 22 months because it's a detailed plan. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53757	Thank you very much. You've got more replicas, so you'll continue. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53758	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you are in this Regulation on the functioning of the Committee of the Government for Strategic Investments, because that is what we should call it, not the law, to miss what is crucial. You have normized everything, however, in Article 16 when to be normable, to define how much property should be allocated from some forest goods or something you simply did not norm. However, paragraph 2 which states that the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia are available for the implementation of a strategic project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia without public competition and without the public collection of offers of market value according to the assessment of the authorised court expert. The question arises whether the country is estimated at a time when it is some forest land with maquis or whether the country is estimated to be worth when the land is separated from the forest goods and becomes some kind of economic zone. And the second thing, Article 16(3). The Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the Central Authority of the state administration, can separate the forests and, in the first debate, it is said that it is illogical, that Croatia, which has hundreds of hectares or thousands of hectares of economic zones, is now to be established at once by some new economic zones. But we said it would be logical if there was one fickel missing to round up that kind of unit that would have been a strategic project if it were logical. But if I tell the law we're all living norms, then we should say that it can't be above 10 or 20% of the total area on which a specific project is taking place. Because this way, in Article 16(2) and (3), you open up a lot of possibilities for manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53759	The reply to the replica by Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53760	A brief answer. This is an article prescribed by the Law on State Property Management. As we said this law would not disabling other laws, then we reflect on the law that defines how state property is managed only in cases where we apply strategic projects in the Republic of Croatia. This means, if there is a Law on State Property Management, we manage state property as it says in the Law on State Property Management, and that is the simplest explanation of your observations. If you have any other objections, go with the initiative, but I don't know which might help in better governance of state property but not to disabling that law with this. I was just saying we don't want any laws to be disabling with this law. This is the application of the other law that the Government in the Republic of Croatia including the availability of state property, so this remark is simply aimed at the wrong law. We're just applying it to an existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53761	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53762	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, to say that this is the most transparent law really is not in line with what we got as a proposal in the second reading. And it's about a law that completely disabling the public, completely. You are taking away all the tools of the public to be involved in the adoption of certain documents which are vital to the development of a particular area. You're shutting down the public. So you had a similar example. You have a similar example in Slovakia. The European Court of Human Rights has ordered amendments to legislation in Slovakia precisely because of a similar project, a similar way of trying to implement projects from the state level, passing local authorities and municipal and city councils and the county assembly. Unfortunately for you, we read the laws, so I must tell you that in the Law on Spatial Planning, which provides for a state spatial plan, we are talking about projects and facilities for economic purposes, not only as you said energy, but also economics which fully opens up the possibility of combining these two bill proposals that are still proposals. I hope it changes regardless of the amendments. It's completely opening up the possibility to shut down the public. And the core was not destroyed, he lost nothing, he was saved thanks to public debates to be released as he wanted at that time by the investor and contrary to the plans that were in force, the opposite of the city's urban plan and the opposite of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County's spatial plan today, Srđ would be offended. So Srdj was saved because of public procedure, because of the fact that the UPU had to be brought to city level what was done and it was good for the investor who agreed with it and who corrected everything he initially didn't want to fix and it's good for the public who thus obtained insight. This way you plan where you actually plan to avoid getting the UPU through this second law it's really simple to disabling an absolutely whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53763	Thank you very much. You keep warning me on time. Replication response, Minister Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53764	That I love these standard remarks that don't usually sound good in front of the cameras. So I'm going to repeat, the spatial plan of the county and the city... adopt them, change them, participate with the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was part of the local administration, I could change, I didn't have to change. There is no possibility of entering a strategic project on the list unless it is in line with the spatial plan. And you're saying after all that, that we're bypassing local self-government units in this law. We're absolutely not bypassing people! And you can say a hundred times, it's super-made in Dubrovnik, it's great and it's supposed to introduce order and investors, but it's also local administration and regionals that can't afford their political ambitions and something that sounds good to the local public at the moment to stop investors who already had some cost based on the plans that existed before. And they're both fixed there, great. And that's how it's supposed to keep working. But don't lose two years. I'll just repeat from 13 to 22 months of industrial documentation project, from 13 to 22 months when we tell a stranger in London tomorrow they ask me if it's 13 or 22? I don't know. 'Cause that's how long it takes for me to get through the DPU, or the UPU, or not to pass in certain cities. I say I don't know. If it's a strategic project then it can't be longer than 10 months, it can be 8 but it won't be longer than 10 months. Then I can say that with these projects. And that's the main motive, people. Tourist project from 8 to 27 months. When I tell the investor how long you can make the paperwork, he asks me, and I tell him from eight to 27 months. Well, if I'm going to be honest. I can lie, so it will be in a year, so it will happen as it was known in some parts of Croatia, not in a year, but in two and a half. But it's real between eight and 27 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53765	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53766	Tomorrow I can say no more than five months if it's a tourist project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53767	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53768	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you said you were listening to the voice of the public in making this proposal. Well, reading it seems to me that you haven't heard a single voice coming from the opposition at all. How did you come up with a criterion of 150 million kuna, with what methodology and what analysis? What ruled that 150 million kuna was the criterion that something could be declared a strategic project, and 149 million and 999 million were not a strategic project? You talked about who might be an investor, but there's no one who can't be an investor of a strategic project. And that's what was talked about here in the first reading. You've installed that the insolvency of the investor has to be proven. What does "solvency" mean if he's due to pay his salary for two years? There are those who are extremely competitive but do not comply with their obligations. They may have paid their contributions, but they didn't pay their wages. What about those who took part in a pre-determined settlement, to whom the state wrote off debts? What about those whose banks were commercially write-off loans because they did not repay loans, and others who returned increased interest because of these? Such can continue to be the bearers and investors of the strategic project. What about the criteria that are unclear, dubious and unverified? You say in Article 5 that holders may be declared if they relate to high value added service activities. What is the criterion of the high value added service holder? What are these activities, what are high value added services? Well, the ones you're confirming today that they're already in a month may not be high value added services. And what about the exchange rate differences that will arise from the moment you approve 150 million implementations of the strategic project itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53769	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53770	To be quick and fit in in time, so what was I supposed to write? Can't be investors of strategic investment projects of the government of the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia thieves, criminals, populists without content or what? What was I supposed to write? Who can't it be? Well, of course they can't be thieves and criminals because they're in jail. But I don't know how I'm supposed to list all those who shouldn't be investors. So as I said at the first reading we were in the public debate phase for a month and I invited your club, give us suggestions, help us and your proposal was to take down BON 1 and BON 2 and call on the insolvency, accepted. Your proposal was to download the criminal record because it sucks to ask, done. That was your proposal in a parliamentary debate. I listen to that, my colleagues and colleagues listened to the assembly session in the ministry and accepted those suggestions. Those were your suggestions, listen to the session. And as for your last remarks, so I can't write to you in a law that can't be an investor, I think you know that yourself, but you have a bit of a strange expression that who can't be an investor. A criminal, a thief, I have no idea, the one who has no money, the one who, how can I write it? Not smart? That's a really declassified remark. And as for investment activities in high added value, it is again a dear colleague prescribed by the Investment Encouraging Act and improving the investment climate. So, again, we haven't disabling any law, but we've already passed a law that encourages direct investment with tax exemptions, you know, and the profit tax itself with direct money for new employees, and from that law we've rewritten and put here. Because I repeat, we're not disabling any laws. That's why it's there, it doesn't exist in the second law, so we moved here to make it perfectly clear that we were instigating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53771	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53772	Honored vice presidents, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The minister said the spatial plans of units of local self-government will be fully respected, and unless such an investment is in their spatial plan that it will not be realised. It is denied by just another law that limits local self-government units to exclusive planning in the settlement area and isolated areas of business zones. On the other hand, he said he seemed to have used the word not to disabling other laws and regulations. So in Article 27, you wrote a sentence that says "which allows the issue of licences not to apply the provisions laid down in the rules of the administrative area of spatial planning" etc. The biggest problem with this law is that neither the Government nor we have seen the basic document that should be the basis for this law, which is the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia and to say what a strategic investment is, where it can be made, how it can be done and how it can be implemented and where it can be implemented. Not to say that you have tens of millions of squares of areas in business areas in 550 cities and municipalities for which spatial plans have already been developed, urban plans for most of the part and infrastructures and guide these investors into these areas and they can begin to build immediately without making such laws, and an even greater danger in this part when you say that units of local self-government will have an impact on the article that prescribes that the forest can become a location for some kind of strategic investment, that this forest can be thrown out of the forest-based strategic document of the Croatian Forests and that in this area it can be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53773	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica by Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53774	How to be brief. So the law on spatial planning and the new law on construction was not passed by the first reading. We are with colleagues at the Ministry of Civil Engineering in coordination on how to make one and the other agree and we will discuss that when he comes to you for another reading and then we will comment together with colleagues from the positional side of the Assembly and the ministries on how to regulate this law, it is not today's topic. Just one detail I forgot to say, and apparently, it's insolent and perhaps you haven't noticed in the law. If there is a detailed plan and if there is an urban plan arranged then the project must be in line with that detailed plan. So if today's detailed planning of the arrangements, today's valid urban planning of the arrangements where the city has set itself in that location I want such a marina and I want it to look like this, I've adopted a detailed plan then the investment has to be that way. We are talking about the area where they have defined that the need to make a detailed plan sometimes, and it has never been made and never has to happen and that it stops the project. It doesn't mean the moment there's a detailed plan. Great, make it easier for everyone, both for the commission and for the investor, for the local administration to adopt detailed plans. People do such urban planning arrangements where you get an investor. Great, adopt them. Can't get on the list one who doesn't comply with the current plan, whether it's detailed or spatial or.... If it's adopted well. That's what I forgot to tell you, so obviously there may have been some confusion here. If a detailed plan has been adopted, then what are we disabling? If we have a detailed plan, we have to respect it, so we won't skip it, who wants it. If we have an urban planning, then of course we'll respect it, but if we don't, it's supposed to be, and it hasn't been done in 15 years, so who else can we wait for? Then we really can't wait more than 8 to 27 months to put it in these to 10 with full authority and then we can do it with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53775	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Who? The Committee on Economy, President Ivan Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53776	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, since it's a very important law in the shortest lines. So on its 28th session, the Committee on Economy discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate noted that the law is an instrument for speeding up the process of coming up with documentation to achieve public and private projects of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, and the main objectives that are to be achieved by adopting this law are to achieve faster and more effective protection of goods from the interests of the Republic of Croatia, increase employment, improve the conditions for production, and introduce and develop new technologies. Most board members supported the adoption of this law by assessing it as necessary and necessary to launch an investment cycle, and it was concluded that the adoption of this law would make all projects that are in some way implemented today, including those that could in any way be favoured or blocked to become transparent. So after the discussion, the Committee on Economy decided, with five votes and two abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53777	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, President Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53778	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament also discussed this final draft law as an interested working body. In the opening presentation of the representatives of the draft assistant minister who was present, the final text and differences arise between the solution set out in the proposal and the solution proposed by this new law were explained. It also stressed that the proposed law is the basis for the rapid launch of an investment cycle of importance for the Republic of Croatia, as well as for the regulation of the essential flow of the administration, i.e. faster implementation of documents or documentation. It is also pointed out that some of the solutions set out in this proposal are also related to other applicable legal regulations and that there is no derivation of those rules. It's only about speeding up the process. She also stressed that when the draft law was drawn up, the proposer agreed with the provisions of the laws mentioned and that most of the remarks resulting from parliamentary debates and discussions carried out in the parliamentary bodies were incorporated after the first reading was carried out in the final text. Afterwards, in the debate followed by most board members, it agreed with the need for the proposed law to provide a legal framework which would create assumptions for the launch of the investment cycle and in particular to provide a good basis for the launch of economic development, the country as a whole and at all levels. As one of the positive solutions to this law, the legal text highlights the possibility of a faster administrative procedure that precedes the launch of this investment cycle. And the work of the ministry that stems from this proposal has been praised. It has also been pointed out that the leaders of the local self-government units are very interested in major investment projects. Since one job encourages the opening of new 5 to 6 jobs. It is therefore pointed out and stressed the need for the proposed text to be taken into account all of these incentives that are to make this investment as quickly and as short as possible. The debate also expressed opinions that the proposed legislative solutions in some way marginalise the role of units of local and regional, regional self-government in deciding on these strategic investment projects at local level and was asked to further harmonise the draft law with the laws in the area of construction that are now under construction. Hereafter the debate was held, the Committee proposed by 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53779	I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Independent Representatives and counterparts Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53780	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, from my confirmation of investor impunity, something else is far more important to me. Although I certainly wouldn't mind giving you one such confirmation. But what's far more important to me? Now let's let go of this debate about how we have to get back into politics, government and so on. Although in no way do I want to put a sign of equality between this government and the former one, God forbid. But what I suggest. To ban people working on these projects from the state, by local self-government tomorrow becoming advisors in these companies at least 5 if not 10 years. After completing its public functions clearly. Why? Because this turns Mr. Milosevic into a perfidious form of corruption. You can't run the Ministry of Local Self-Government or I don't know the county or some big city and after the mandate is over for tens of thousands of euros, you become advisors to the biggest companies in the country. There, in Istria, some become advisers to the Blue Lagoon, and just yesterday or this morning I also find out the largest Croatian companies. And the former tourism minister of another tourism portfolio in the largest Croatian company. For me, gentlemen, it's a classic conflict of interest. Whatever you think it is, it can't be. As it should not be, we are not here Milosevic, it has come out that the new owners after the conversion and privatisation of the minister or those who performed in the name of the Croatian state name that conversion and privatisation are not important to T-HT or leading Croatian banks. And then a man asks himself a question, so who did these individuals work for? Whether they worked for Croatia, whether they worked for capital, whether they worked for themselves. So let's be serious. You need to work for the capital, clearly you need to work. Because then that capital and these companies will work for Croatia but individuals who should direct it must not benefit from all this. That's my attitude, I don't have to be right, but I just see what's going on in the space I live in. I personally believe that such laws are necessary in Croatia. The fact is, there's no investment. What's this about? Here is Article 2 of the strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia, I quote, can be private investment projects, public investment projects or public private investment projects in the area of economy, energy, tourism, transport, infrastructure, electronic communications, postal services, environmental protection, municipal economy, agriculture, forestry, water economy, etc. So there's no branch that's not mentioned here. An investor can understandably be domestic but can also be foreign, does not matter, natural or legal person. Could be a state, could be a unit of local self-government, could be international institutions, in one word all of them. Article 5 states that the strategic project, excuse me, will consider a project whose implementation creates conditions for the employment of a larger number of persons depending on the type of location and project, etc. E is now said by which criteria according to spatial order documents have the value of the total capital of investment costs equal to or greater than 150 million kuna. 3. there is the possibility of being co-financed by the European Union funds, so the figure of 75 million kuna is mentioned here, it is achieved in assisted areas, and a figure of 20 million kuna is mentioned here as well as in the islands, etc. But by my judgment, the essence of this law is certainly Article 13(2), an article that actually speaks of urgency. Now, where do you think you're going? For example. What's closest to me, in Istria since '90. So far, five new hotels have not been built. Once upon a time, until the '90s. The industry was our first economic branch, not only in other parts of Croatia but also in Istria, today, not unfortunately, thank God we have it, it's tourism. Tourism, on the other hand, is a low-accumulated branch. Tourist facilities exactly, should be acknowledged, are restored but new ones are not there, as they are not in Istria, so they are neither in Dalmatia, in the coast or elsewhere. However, the number of employees was reduced by 60% compared to the 1990s, and the average salaries in that portfolio are about 17% lower than the republican average. And finally, the tourist base, the industrial base, it doesn't matter whether anyone here agrees with me or not again, Istria, Croatia, the municipal foundation of Istria, Croatia, the energy base is laid until the 1990s. A year. That first and second I'm going to call it a war generation, a generation of our fathers, we should in some way be eternal debtors not only grateful. Why, for out of one of the others, an agrarian land has created systems from which we live today. As we live or live, that's another thing, but the fact that it was created is everything that was privatized precisely in that one period until the '90s. A year. Now why there are no investments, they are not in Istria, they are not in the city of Zagreb, they are not in Slavonia, they are not in Dalmatia. We are all lying and we think that the European funds of Croatia will be launched. I mean, God forbid it's something, but it won't be anything. If this year we can use 150 million euros more than we're going to pay, and next year about 250 million more than we're paying, that's about a billion dollars this year, next year there'd be about 2 billion kuna. It is commendable, but if our priorities are determined by Brussels, I am afraid that this money will be scattered on everything and everything, which is a question of how much land will benefit. Our GDP is falling, it is said to be higher or higher in 2014 at 1.3, 1.5%. Come on, God, talk to me. That's what our banks say, that's what the IMF says, that's what the Croatian government says and mentions. Industrial production is also falling, retail trade, and in May first we have annual growth since February 2012, tourism still has growth, although in 2008, passenger transport and goods are dropping, construction is dropping, inflation has fallen to the lowest levels of 1.6%, wages fall 14 months in a row, exactly. And what's good? There's something good about it, though. Foreign direct investment, slightly more investment in the first quarter of this year, that I am now not reading exactly the data during the first quarter of this year, on the basis of direct investment of 464m euros, was even 6 times higher than in the previous year due to an extremely low base. That's actually the reason. But let's let it go now. What's the point? We all know that Croatia has problems, among other things, because of this legislation, interest on a 10-year-old is said to be growing from 4.7% to 5.8%, credit rating is what it is. But what I might be most concerned about is what's being told to us, like... Recently said by Mr. Linic, I quote that it is unacceptable to save on those who get the least, but we will cut some of the larger pensions of 5500 kuna. I'm saying it's not a big pension, but that's where we're gonna cut it. And Mr. Greek, Deputy Prime Minister, says the cuts will be because the deficit is too large. It is possible that the European Commission is asking us to save by not entering capital projects and continuing, investments fell by 40% in four years, and their growth is needed. And that's where I see it right now, actually, that's the essence of one of these laws. Mr. Grcic, Croatia has withdrawn a 150m-euro loan, it has to go to reform, and Mr. Linic says the loan is given by the World Bank, and the reforms concern the abolition of the preferential pensions of officials, defence pension reform, and the second step concerns the property price for children's allowance, etc. If Croatia depends on 150m euros or 1 billion kuna, then we are underwritten. This government must have done something good, reduced the liquidity by 10 billion kuna, but there's still no money. We have exactly 10,000 more registered companies than in 2011, but it's also true that unemployment is growing. Economic problems are not from today, they are I would say the consequence of the events from at least 2004 to 2009 or from 2009 to today, from the beginning of the crisis when only that first year the gross social product fell by 6.8% as much as inflation was then. In 2012, the budget is lower by 2 billion kuna compared to 2011, subsidies are less by a billion and 700 million kuna, but in 2008 it was 4.6% and today 8.3% or twice as much or almost twice as much. And that's actually the point and that determines all these investments that aren't actually there. I'm on the side of the citizens down there, absolutely, but I don't think there's gonna be any of that in due course. It's not enough to pass the law, the law as it's offered, we see in an explanation a series of recommendations, so I'll say on the right is more or less ok. It should change I don't know the investment climate, it should change this land policy as well. If a stranger wants to invest I speak to God 50 million euros for a hotel he will now be able to buy something like that for small money but give it to that peasant who wants to build I don't know agro tourist facility or his barn. Also, for small money, it comes to all of it. The state needs to be rationalised, local self-government needs to be rationalized, the county also needs to be sucked out of public systems. I think it's stopped, and that money that went out should be returned. I'm afraid despite this investment law in this country will wait. I'm sure, for example, in 2014 we won't open any hotels in Istria. I'm afraid there won't be a new hotel opening, let's play refurbished hotels. I'm afraid that this same situation is both a picture and a coastal situation, down in Dalmatia or in our islands, and I said just before to 90 years of age, we'd only open in Istria at least 5. I'm not calling for us to understand each other for some time. If it had been better then, that it had been fairer, that it had been more successful, that it had been more credible probably it had been the same. We have entered Europe, but let us be aware that the hardest is yet to be expected. It is a consolidation of the budget and clear and public spending. In my court, it is necessary to apostrophe the role of local self-government and higher spatial plans, to restore local self-government when it was most powerful in positions from '74. from managing real estate, for example. But I did say and do something about the rationality of the entire system. We have a situation this year or now that in the last 6 years of manufacturing jobs, a circus of 150,000 has been shut down and around 30,000 people have been employed in the upgrade. It is clear that if the local self-government is returned to that position, then it cannot be sold 1,000 square feet of agricultural land for 5 pikes of cigarettes or 1 ha for several thousand kunas. These deadlines mentioned by the minister for 10 months for economic facilities, for tourism 8 to 27 months are logical in these large infrastructure systems they should be even shorter All in all, I don't think there's any reason not to support this law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53781	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53782	Honored Madam President, colleague Cain. So I'd like a triba one average Fidel Castro speech to respond to your multi, your multi-thematic sermon here to us. There's as many pearls as you'd like the government to reduce the liquidity of 10 billion. It can forgive these other 30 and return all of Croatia to zero and within a period of one signature we will be aware of the indifference to zero. It's the politics of this government. But what I want to replicate to you is that this policy of local people who would advocate a project and when that project is realized that they should not work there. And that's your logic... In fact, it's retrograde of your consciousness, which is why you support this government that makes investment impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you're pre-declaring people as thieves, criminals, frauds, immorals. And you know what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Cain? I don't think you have much experience. Most people who drag forwards, visionaries, those who stand out in local self-government, who want something, have some program they are declaring by that local self-government and by people already in advance thieves. He wouldn't have worked if he didn't have any use for himself. Practically local administration is holding back and therefore cannot move forward and therefore should support certain elements of this law to break resistances in local self-government in order to be able to move forward. And so, these people are usually when they realize that plan, while they are being realized, attacked, attacked, attacked. When it was all over, it was good, and that man had neither reward nor money for what he was doing, what he was trying to do, nor has recognition in that circle of people, but are usually misunderstood people. So, you're on the line of this policy that these people need to be intimidated in advance and people like that should be supported by Mr. Cain. By proposing in advance, you discourage those people [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] that they would think and act progressively. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Please colleague is past time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53783	A colleague of Marasovic and the others, please. We've got a lot of reports. Today we're going to do another point that we've got a lot of reports on. Stick to the time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53784	Well, Mr. Marasovic, I think the people in this government are basically honest people. And it is in no way possible to put a sign of equality between some individuals from the last administration and this administration. I really think that one who behaves this public function that needs to do everything for economic operators, gets to meet them in a thousand and one way, if possible, especially if it's about attracting capital or saving jobs. But you will agree that later when some individuals become especially in Croatia, they became after the privatisation of the first people of our banks, the first people of the largest companies that were privatised and ended up in foreign ownership, something that we should openly start talking about. Because in my own court, it leads sooner or later to enable them to benefit rather than the state as such. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I want to put an accent on. I can mention, I don't want to mention companies, but dozens of such examples, I don't think that was good. Why something was privatized, but those individuals in those places were left behind for one-on-one fees. Who was damaged? The Croatian state and Croatian taxpayers were damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53785	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53786	Thank you very much. A colleague Cain from your debate is visible that your permanent premise in this country is no good but I will vote for this law, in Yugoslavia it was better. These are the permanent three starting points from which you start in every debate. And you wonder why there's no investment. So that's why Mr. Caine, because you may already be the strongest of all colleagues on our left, pardon the right, support this government that in two years has succeeded in dissipating everything that has worked and was trying to create and has disappeared in just two years 60 thousand jobs. But you strongly supported it as a parliamentary representative. And then, of course, that other story is going on, it's someone else's fault, we used to get better. Let's just remember the story of energy. Where are all those hydropower plants, thermal power plants? You asked yourself where Plomin C is? He's gone. Why isn't he here? You're the supporter of this government for all its decisions, and now you're saying you're on the side of Istrian citizens, and they were on gas, and by what you're doing in the Parliament, you were on coal. And that's why there's no Plomin C because it's still not clear how this thermopower plant should be built at all and what should be basic fuel. Unfortunately, in such decisions, in such ways, we lost two years, tens of thousands of jobs, and this is just one mask that you're going to say again, raise your hand just to cover up our troubles in the past two years and everything that's going to happen, and it hasn't happened. Of course, most of your main culprit is always on our side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53787	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53788	Too bad there's no other Mrki here in the Parliament to explain when it was better. Yeah, it was incomparably better by the '90s. A year. The entire economic base that was created in this land on which it rests and today's moment was built by the '90s. A year. Everything privatized after the '90s. The year was created before '90. A year. And once again I'm just going to repeat it was incomparably better, more credible and fairer by the '90s. A year. You can call this government for a lot of things, it can be called for economic results, but the real crisis started in this country when? When it's 2003 or 2004. HDZ takes over the management of the country as best possible in some processes that are currently being conducted at the county or I do not know which court in Zagreb. We could've been in additional debt, but all of it is, the fact is that public spending has eaten us. What did this government do? 2010 budget expenditure 121 billion kuna, last year 119 billion kuna. For interest in 2007, I said 4.5%. Now you pay 8.3%. The subsidies were then 6.7, 6.8%, today 4%, decreased. So this government has managed to regain consciousness in these circumstances because the opportunities would otherwise be incomparably worse, so it managed to raise awareness of expenditure in 2009. She took back the costs and the labour rights clearly which can now be monitored in some companies but no matter what, she freed the economy 7.8 billion kuna because if it hadn't been a question of what would have happened to us at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53789	Thank you very much. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53790	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain and most of the premises you made in connection with this proposal were logical but the only conversation you came up with on the basis of all these premises is not logical. To support what you've been saying all along. And you're saying there's no investment. And you forgot, so the entire investment cycle and economic activity were based on the restoration of facades and changing windows and doors on buildings. What's up with that? When you talk about strategic investments, the only thing that has been working strategically lately in Croatia is to make strategic concerns more and more about being as unemployed as possible. Non-stop is about increasing the number of unemployed, new jobs, and increasingly unemployed. Why? Because the investment cycle and economic activity depend mostly on the tax system. You can pass hundreds of such laws and these are discriminatory, such as this, but the tax system is the one that disables the very announcement of real estate taxes and the announcement itself yesterday of tax increases and such a terrible VAT from 25 to 26 or 27% is literally as if we have passed a law on preventing investment activity in the Republic of Croatia. It's with such consequences. And look at one criterion: undefined employment of a larger number of persons. What does that mean? So we've been hiring at malls for years more people, and the total number of employees in the store today is much smaller than in the store 15 years ago. We've got more and more press, but there's a significantly smaller number of press employees than 15 years ago. Which means this new job that will lead to the abolition of two existing jobs. You need an investment activity that when you create a new job will keep all existing, it... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53791	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53792	... The fact that the budget in the Republic of Croatia is 10 years higher by 20 billion kuna, that interest in the last five years is at 4.5% today 8.3%. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] What did we do? We ate ourselves for the election. Every time there were some elections, it wasn't whether they were state, local, parliamentary, presidential we raised the budget by 2 or 3 billion kuna each year and we have the situation since 2008, 2009 when GDP falls 6.8% ever this gross product drops to a minus 13.14% today compared to 2009. And we're missing the optics, as far as it is, 14% of the GDP of the 350 billion kuna means we're missing between 20 billion and 40 billion a year. From 20 billion to 40 billion local self-government countries each year could reach about 50%. It's gone 50, 60, 70 billion kuna, and now you have these measures that remain in your disposition from today to tomorrow, there's nothing you can do about it. And I'll answer you about this VAT, I'm absolutely against it. I may have been the first in Croatia to talk about it in 2012. The easiest way is to raise VAT, but I'm afraid our citizens will be hungry and our stores will be empty, that we'll drive them away I don't know about Bosnia, Slovenia, Italy to buy a whole series of goods. It is already for entrepreneurs today, although someone will say that he is a neutral tax that is harder to pay VAT on the 20th month than on the 30th month. If anything needs to be done then let tourism not be accommodation but services return to those positions I speak from VAT which they paid until about a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53793	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53794	Dear Mr. Cain, it is hard to get by in your stream of words that you have spoken, but it shows that the various arches of the chairmans are when they go from the opposition to some introduction, they are immediately warned that they are not sticking to the subject. I don't know what you're talking about, but I know I'm going to pick something out that sounded very good to me that you can replicate. And that's what you said if Croatia depends on a billion kuna, then we're underwritten. This is exactly where Finance Minister Mr. Linic said that HPB must be sold because we lack a billion kuna. Those are his words, he was sitting down there, and I replicated it to him. This government, whose support you are, will sell HPB for a billion kuna, will kill the cow for steak, not because there are billions missing from Croatia, Croatia many billions of kunas are missing exactly as the Croatian Government has now failed to do what it should have done. If it were a bad situation, we all know that it was a good condition HDZ would retain power, not lose power. HDZ lost power because it mismanaged the state. Then you promised Croatian citizens, we'll fix it all and we'll take the Croatian citizens to a brighter future. And what did you do? Everything falls you said, everything falls, everything falls. And you said another sentence about elementary honesty. Your colleagues are far from being the elemental honesty of you because you defend the defences indefensibly, you defend yourself with an indefensible vote, and you attack with words, so I find it very difficult to cope with your debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53795	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53796	It would be better, Mr. Representative, if they could concentrate a little more when I speak. Yes, we can speak clearly of elementary honesty but no one is also higher and the higher elemental honesty has promised to give birth to this country within two years. Croatian problems, if we agree, are not from today, they are the consequences again we will probably all agree on a whole series of factors of our domestics from, say, that conversion, through foreign ones. We are responsible for the opportunities here, we cannot call for this crisis that came across borders in 2008 or 2009 banking problems etc. But once again the biggest problem facing this administration lies in the fact that since 2008, we have not recorded a positive growth in gross social product. Since then, I've said everything about gross social product and falling 1% to 2% a year, and today he said just about 13.14% less than he was before the crisis. The crisis began in 2009 I said about this crisis at least we don't have these external factors that are dominantly important, and each time before the election, budget spending was raised by 5 and 7 billion kuna and that's just what ate us. Here is enough to mention that expenditure, budget 2007 was 111 billion kuna and 2008. 118.5 billion kuna. And that wasn't enough for us, but in 2009, we went to 121 billion. Kuna. [[Thank you very much.]] We ate ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53797	Ivan Shuker, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53798	My colleague Cain, you like to throw some data like this, and every piece of information has a history behind it, and then it sounds different. However, it's very interesting that your thesis on the 10 billion-dollar liquidity reduction is very interesting. And it's not just you saying it, it's a lot of people saying it on your side of the assembly. And I'd like to see, find me one entrepreneur who out of these 10 billion gets 1 lipo. This is an administrative detachment of the debt of all those who have made a pre-demand settlement or a settlement with the Government on a reprogramme or something. And that's the only truth and fact. Because if otherwise something else had happened, you know what it means in the payment traffic of the Republic of Croatia to show up 10 billion kuna, which is a great deal of money and that would be a huge swing of investment. We shouldn't even be passing this law anymore. Because 10 billion kuna would suddenly appear on the financial market of the Republic of Croatia because entrepreneurs could simply invest it. But unfortunately, it didn't happen. It was administratively erased. The second thing, when you talk about reducing subsidies, colleague Cain, see only the example of the Croatian Railways, yes, the reduction of subsidies by 800 million kuna, last year they were given a guarantee of a billion and 200 million kuna, even though the sparrows at the branch know that HZ will not be able to pay that loan but will ultimately pay the state budget just as they are now guaranteed by a billion and 600 million kuna for the purchase of passenger trains. Also, the sparrows on the branch know that it will be paid from the state budget. So it's not a subsidy but I'll give you a guarantee that tomorrow will be... State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I'm surprised that you didn't react to the provision of Article 16(2), because at least you often said in this assembly that hundreds of hectares of land were bought by two kunas later, and can be less...... So, well... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So less and later sold for much more expensive money. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Does this Article 16 paragraph 2 not refer to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53799	Thank you. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53800	Yeah. If it was two kunas, it would be good. That would be a good price even a man could say hello. I'm sorry, but it usually went to the Kuna and 20, Kuna 30, Kuna 60. But let's let it go now. There is something else that needs to be changed in this country, an investment climate, perhaps under quotes and this political climate. But it's incontrovertible that this indifference still managed to shrink by 10 billion kuna. Someone's gonna say how it grows on the other side. Oh, well, it's wiped. Unemployment is growing. For what? Because of the savings in the companies, it's simply a matter that's being saved. And that's why I also think it should be maximum flexibility in the collection of claims from our mostly small companies. There is a higher, there should be both reprogramme and a whole series of aids to be designed and pre-determined in some parts even though it has shown good results or more good than bad. It is necessary to reduce expenditure, to redefine individual costs for both state and local self-government and I do not know public enterprises, etc., I cannot spend 30, 40 to 100% of my own income. I can't. A lot of it. But this government has two things to guarantee us, and it's working on one side of the rule of law, so whatever it is that's going on, it's going to have to try to take care of the finances. And because of that few who, especially in the opposition will be satisfied with that absolutely, absolutely no doubt. Now we'll see what happens next year with a gross social product if it really grows from 1.5% on an annual level then I want to believe that a lot of things will be different even though overnight nothing will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53801	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53802	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, speaking of liquidity, liquidity cuts, I'm going to give you an example of what a liquidity reduction is in practice. So, let's say, one winery in Peljesac, which was due to producers, or winemakers, was owed huge money and in the pre-profit settlement managed to reach an agreement that the bank, which was the biggest believer, gave up only the difference in interest of regular interest, tightened interest and the winemakers who owed huge money, whose life meant that they wrote off 60% of the debt, so they erased 60% of the debt and the remaining 40% of the debt would be paid in the next 20 years. That's a liquidity reduction. It's to the detriment of all citizens, to the harm of entrepreneurs, to the harm of those who work. It's a classic example for you. Another thing, speaking of article 16, I have plenty of time, so I'll read article 16. 2nd and 3rd, paragraphs 2nd and 3rd. "The properties owned by the Republic of Croatia are needed for the implementation of a strategic project including forests and forest land, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no public competition and no public collection of offers at market value.". The following article therefore tells us that these, these forests and forest land will be given to implement the strategic project in accordance with the local authorisation of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide. So it's about corruption law. This is nowhere to be found, even if it was the Government of the Republic of Croatia without a public competition, without the public gathering of offers, without an estimate of the market value of an authorised court expert to have the land available and to give to someone who will answer and tell me I want to make that and that... I want to do a shopping mall in the woods, I don't know in the Istrian forest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are you talking about? Look at that law. Because it's really amazing that after all the criticism that you had on the law to conclude that he was good, that you should accept him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53803	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53804	I didn't say that law was the Holy Scriptures. But as for this winery in Peljesac, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know what's going on there. But the bottom line is something that's likely to be saved from one side of the winery, the number of employees, the substance that it has but also the winery. If he ends up in a classic bankruptcy of that winery, what are those wineries going to be doing next day? ... And the wineries will take it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's he gonna do? Well, they all have their taverns, they have all too many barrels to put wine in, but they need wineries to maybe have a market. That's the point. And as for this country, it should be monitored because I'm going back to those Istrian principles. It's not possible that politically... simply buys hectares and hectares for one white, for one black. ... We'll see what happens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Someone's gonna have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53805	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53806	A colleague of Cain's, about these '90s. Some of them were better before the '90s, some of them after the '90s, and I know a lot of people who weren't well before the '90s or the '90s, so we're back in 2013. You said that you were on the citizens' side about Plomin C and against therefore Plomin C, and then you said a few words afterwards that you needed to change the investment climate. Now, let's remember Srje, the wrath is ours, let's remember Omble. I'm not going into whether Srđ needs to be protected from the original natural environment, whether it should be bat protection in Ombla, I'm not going into what the citizens of Istria or Plominian think about Plomin C, there are certainly also those who think otherwise, but the fact remains that because it was not going to build golf on Srđ, the Ombla and Plomin C hydropower plants that investments amounting to several billion euros were lagging behind, that there were jobs left in the realisation of these investment projects, that Croatia remained more energy-dependent than it would have been if these facilities had been built, that electricity for the citizens would have been more expensive and that people had not been hired after the realization of these investment projects. So all these facts remain and it would be good for politicians, if they are already citizens, to be held accountable and when they are not directly responsible because that cowardly egg they give to the current authorities will be met tomorrow by rotten and stinking--
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53807	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53808	I didn't understand this last one, even though I wish we had answered it a little differently. I agree. No investments, no jobs. Without preserving existing economic systems, there will be no jobs. But I'm also going to say, I'm not against Plomina C, I'm against energy in that Plomina C, and I'm surprised that everywhere else in the Republic of Croatia, gas is preferred, and only in Istria is no less coal. And what may be even more important, of these three or four investors for investment in Plomin C, I do not know if there is any serious company that is ready to enter into the realisation of the project with 500 or 800 million euros as mentioned. I have at least a reserve that all those who have delivered their offers far away, and the vast majority of them have given up, far less would have reserves towards the SW, one of the great German orderly multinationals who appear to us from Korea, Russia or I don't know which exotic countries. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53809	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53810	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you have been defiant in all your speech, and then in a conversation or conclusion you were in position. You were talking about not building hotels in Istria in the last few years I don't know how many years, before that was built, etc. So you see how even now that it is, if it is adopted, and given the majority of your hand in the Parliament, it will be, so how are hotels going to be built now when those who invest don't know what VAT is going to be in tourism? One year it was 25%, then it was reduced to 10%, now it's 13%. As far as tomorrow's concerned, these investors are clearly asking themselves. And this uncertainty in the regulations of the Republic of Croatia leads to reduced interest, reduced interest in investment. This law is both discriminatory and pro-corruption. In fact, when I say discriminatoryly, I mean that all projects are under 150 million kunas are not actually strategic, and isn't it strategic as you yourself said agrotourism and the opening of small processing plants in Slavonia, the opening of coolers in Slavonia, silos, etc. which does not cost 150 million kuna but is therefore not strategic and is therefore discriminated against by this law. And not to mention the possibility of corruption in Article 16(2) and paragraph 3 when it comes to the fact that the forest is operated in style or according to the principles of the former Yugoslav Government, so it is taken away and a department store will be built in half the forest, etc. That's terrible. And then you say at the end of everything I said, I'll vote for this law. You're not completely understandable to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53811	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53812	I personally believe that these laws are necessary for Croatia. He can also go to third reading, although it is a pity that such a law has not been in force for maybe two years. Well, the truth is, on the other hand, Mr. Boro Grubisic, that every year not only in Istria but also in Dalmatia and in our islands, five hotels would be built annually, I speak only for Istria, and in 20 years, only five new hotels were built in Istria. In Pula no hotel was built, in one tourist giant such as Poreč was built no new hotel, in one Rapac or Labin no new hotel, in Rovinj two if I am not mistaken, they started from the foundation of existing positions, one is new, in Umag one was built, in Medulin one was built and that is it. On the other hand, I personally believe that this 13% VAT will not be a problem, that when we talk about tourism, it is still a privilege compared to, for example, the wood-processing industry or the textile industry where VAT is to be paid by 25%, where a far greater number of people are employed, although it is understandable for me that in Istria VAT is in tourism as little as possible. Because as a rule, Istrians don't work in textiles, not in wood-processing industry, but under the same modes, we should have the same criteria for every economic branch in this country. And you know what might be, I don't know, we'll talk about some other laws. I looked at what Orban did with whose right-handedness I absolutely don't share the light. He put the taxes down to 50% for small companies, and that's kind of, with the big ones, he kept it all the same. And it kind of started in Hungary right now. Whether it might be a way out or not, I don't know about Croatia, but it's convenient to talk about it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53813	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS representative club colleague Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53814	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here since 1990, when new conditions of the market economy have come to Croatia, there is no legal framework that provides better conditions for good management through the realisation of projects of significant interest and impact on the country's economic situation. This was the reason why such a framework was foreseen by the government's programme. The concept was set at the beginning of 2012. The draft was addressed to the debate in autumn 2012 and I sincerely hope that the final adoption will follow now at the end of 2013. The adoption of this law, a law that will certainly pave the way for easier and faster investment, which means opening new jobs for our citizens after almost two years as well as advocating some of the parties and individuals to fully stop their adoption from talking about how political, local or personal interests are often ahead of the general ones. Today there were talks here about numbers in the debates and they'll be believed and they're still and they're whatever they're turning my story bad. Farthest are the ones about the fight of the unemployed. Jobs do not open fast enough and in sufficient numbers, and many continue to close. And that's not the problem from a year and a half ago trying to show it. This is a lasting consequence of the poor structure of the Croatian economy which did not change when conditions for this were far better, at least with regard to availability and price of capital. However, I think that regardless of what is here, it should be clear that for the exit from the economic crisis and this living sand of growing debt is a key leveraged investment growth. Some of us here are being placed as advocates for the protection of Croatian national interests, so we will explain to investors how to invest, where to invest and what to invest in. But that's not how it works and we need to bring our interests into line with any foreign interests, any domestic investors. We've also set up some kind of market logic that clearly doesn't attract investors. And that's exactly what's happening to us. There is no investor, they are not interested in investing in Croatia. The question is, is there some kind of magic wand that we can solve this situation where we find ourselves without investment? I think we'll all agree there isn't. So it is very clear that we need to open the door for investors, we need to facilitate their procedures and encourage them to come and invest in Croatia instead of investing in all the countries in the environment. Because with all these obvious problems, we have an extremely negative attitude toward entrepreneurs. Today, there was talk here about it, according to investors and according to private ownership and private investment in general. Here's a very specific piece of information I've come across. So, according to the research conducted... states that 70% of Croatian citizens have a negative view of successful entrepreneurs and that we are of 54 countries as measured in a convincing last 54 places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 21 years unlike almost all other transition countries, we have failed to attract stronger and bigger investors. And what is most regrettable is that this negative attitude towards entrepreneurs continues to be constantly encouraged. It is the government that must make quick and strong moves that are measurable. No one can seek responsibility with others, and especially not in private entrepreneurship, which is the most important cornerstone of a successful economy. Today, we have almost no exceptions to the sub-capitalised company, which of course is mostly a sin of the model of conversion and privatisation completely missed. We are aware of this and of the slow and inefficient judiciary. We have unresolved ownership relations, over-numbered inefficient local and central administration, clear indications that in Croatia it takes x times more time to start investments than the EU average, and of course the constant mention of new taxes does not help. Every potential investor as one of the most important things they will check before starting an investment are taxes. And the constant announcements of tax changes are not good because they create uncertainty with investors. If we make a decision to introduce a new tax, we agree to prepare it well, and it is necessary to implement it, not every little bit, but to draw it out, because it is certainly not good messages. So we cannot blame the private sector but we must find solutions to how to enable it to invest its capital in projects and jobs here with us. In the last debate, I talked a lot about public investment. Today, here are some statements and assessments more about private ones, but once again, the government set up a clear economic concept in the first year of office and created all the preconditions for its realisation and a large part of the concept are investment in the public sector. Because it's exactly who we can influence, we can run them, and we can realize them ourselves. Here I am particularly talking about investments from the energy sector which, as we know, affect the short-term strong and rapid start-up of the economy, but in the long term they also have an impact on the fact that we can at least partially affect the prices of more expensive energy. All of this I have cited, and therefore investment and private and public sectors clearly say that emergency measures are more than necessary to us. In this respect, it was certainly a positive shift in the adoption of the Investment Encouragement Act and the promotion of an investment environment in which a whole series of measures and incentives are envisaged, because they are namely, and it is important to mention, until the adoption of this law by a country in an environment, for example. one Slovakia and Serbia had twice as much incentives for projects as Croatia had. The government recognized it and in this sense passed such a law, but of course it is certainly not enough. So, with all possible incentives but without speed, clear investment procedures will continue to lag behind. I would actually say that this is not even about any particularly accelerated procedures because in the normal investment environment today, the accelerated procedures and procedures we adopt under the special law are normally normal and realistic deadlines for doing these jobs and issuing these documents. As for the amendments to the law itself after the first reading, I would certainly welcome the abolition of unnecessary administration with various certificates. I also talked about it in the first reading debate, and I think that we should adopt the experience and practices of the EU countries and I am glad that we have harmonised that part. It is also important that the commission will now be attended by both the mayors, i.e. the mayors and mayors in whose area the project is realised. And it's for transparency and, of course, for the sake of clear protection of the local community. And finally, there are often criticisms, there have been a lot of debates on this and on our Committee on Economy, so that we are passing the law because the system and administration are not working in the way that they should. I must say, those criticisms are justified. We can now discuss who is guilty here, whether those who have worked hard to build and nurture the last 20 years or this government that may not implement the reforms quickly enough but will not come to a solution. The system we know is not good enough and fast enough, reforms must be implemented faster and better than until they are implemented let's make a solution that will bring investors, encourage investment and employ our citizens. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53815	Now you're not finished with your colleagues because you have 11 replicas. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53816	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've been describing the reasons for the adoption of this law and finding the causes of this in a difficult economic state. So you said you needed to find a way out of the economic crisis, a way out of the quicksand, that there were no investors, that there was a need to open doors and facilitate procedures, and you finally concluded that reforms had to be implemented faster and better. To all this together now, I'd like to ask you, in fact, if that's the state you described him for, why did the process of passing this law actually stretch to 11 months? The law was referred to in a public debate in January, its quick adoption was announced at the time, the law was then announced as an important instrument for improving the economic situation. However, here is the final draft of the law delivered to the assembly bench at the end of the 10th month. So why is it 10 months lost if you see this law as a really important instrument that will improve the economic climate and generally investment climate? On the other hand, there are a few other things I'd like to replicate to you, but here's another one. You said yourself that in Croatia, a negative attitude towards entrepreneurs expresses 70% of people. Obviously these data are correct, it's probably the research that you quoted it for, and that just confirms what we very often say from these benches here, and we point to the bad investment climate created by the government. I would therefore like to ask you if you are thinking and did it occur to you that the term private has returned from the ranks of the ruling coalition? What does this mean in the context of the market economy of the country that is a member of the EU mean by the term private? And how does that actually happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53817	Thank you very much, thank you. My colleagues have already asked you to engage at the available time. Natalija Martincevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53818	Here's the thing about the speed of passing this bill, I was talking about it, and we absolutely agree. However, some of your colleagues have denied you during and before the debate, and today here's how much we've heard in these replicas. In fact, you are constantly calling for the public not to be involved enough, that this is all too quickly, that there is not enough public debate. Here's the word today that we should go with the law and the third reading. Therefore, I think it would be a good idea to coordinate the views within your own club on the issue, and I agree with you that the law should have been passed faster. Now is the time to bring him in, vote him out, and get him into effect. And as far as the investment climate is concerned, that she's bad at what I've been saying very clearly, it needs to be changed. And this law is actually a good and quality solution, one important and strong step to change this very climate and to speed up procedures, to show investors that we want the investments to come here to Croatia and that they have a fully open door.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53819	Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53820	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you said in your presentation that here we finally got a legal framework for investment, at the beginning of your presentation. I wouldn't agree with that, you know the legal framework is when we leave the aspect of a potential investor. He wants clear information, accurate information, understandable information. What we could hear here this morning is that, especially at the Civil Engineering Act, there are a lot of ambiguities when it comes to other laws and I'm not sure we've received adequate answers. So there's a forest of regulations that aren't clear to us here either, so I'm wondering how it's going to be clear to investors. On the other hand, you've got a little bit of a mess inside the institutions. A few weeks ago, the concept of economic diplomacy was promoted, and there were no representatives of the Ministry of Economy as far as I can see, but I am sure that when this law was promoted in the government that the minister said that almost half of the government had participated in his participation, he taxed all the ministries involved and there was no foreign ministry. In the concept of promoted economic diplomacy, it is said that it is there to unite all efforts to attract investment and they have some commission that leads more or less the same people who will lead the commission according to this law. So it seems to me that a lot of that is not clear. And when we talk about the legal framework and it's at least clear to me that you have examples in the EU among successful Member States, this is an example of Estonia, a national investment strategy... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53821	Thank you. Reply to the replica Natalija Martinčević. Please follow the time on the screen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53822	Well, here I am glad that you have recognized all the forests of our regulations in which when one investor comes to invest in Croatia or foreign or domestic so whoever decides to invest must be able to cope and for this very reason it is important that we have this one law for large strategic projects will be able to significantly speed up the procedure where investors will be helped to cope with the whole forest of regulations. And that is why it is important for this law to be supported and this law to be passed. And as far as the legal framework is concerned, here you are now mentioning the EU law has fully supported the European Commission, there have been no objections. Those remarks that were initially made with the draft were adopted therefore I think there are no obstacles to... /The speech room has been shut down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53823	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53824	Your colleagues mentioned the investment climate and, among other things, you talked about a negative impact on the investment climate of tax increases. At that point, it seemed like you weren't a member of the leading coalition. So your government wants to increase the tax, the announcements from your government from the finance minister is that there will be VAT taxes, is an announcement that there will be a real estate tax that also confuses investors. So your government is making moves that confuse investors, who don't know what's going to happen in the next period. And speaking of investments, I remember your first Deputy Prime Minister while he was in government, he spoke in the outside of investment as he called it by the end of the 6th month of 2012, and then he said well maybe it's too early in the 6th month, but in the fall, there must be an external investment going on and we're sure of economic growth. So that year, it ended up with such money for investment, it was total, and in the end GDP was minus 2.2% at the end of the year. So it absolutely seems to me that your responsibility is because of the state we were in today and your responsibility is because of the fact that there is no investment in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I would also like to hear your opinion on Article 16o of items 2 and 3 which give one tool to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sell it to future investors by direct contract and without assessing the value of land, forest, forest land. Which one? We'll see, maybe the likes might not. But it is clear that this article of the law provides a basis for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53825	Reply to the replica Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53826	As far as real estate tax is concerned, the position of the CNS is quite clear. HNS opposes the introduction of real estate taxes until economic growth is achieved in Croatia in at least two quarters. Now burdening citizens at this time with new taxes is neither good for citizens nor for the development of the economy in Croatia. And as far as all the other taxes are concerned, I made it very clear that this very climate of constant tax reference is the ones without it being agreed, so it's getting away with it, so it's not good. So if any increase or reduction or whatever we decide then we have to do it but we have to establish one stability of the tax system because the instability of the tax system in any case rejects investors. As for the former First Deputy Prime Minister, he set up all the levers in the first year of office, and believe me, if he stayed in the government, there would be more investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53827	Marin Jurevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53828	Thank you. My colleague Martincevic, you were saying in the beginning somewhere I quote you mentioned ironically so-called. "the champions of the protection of national interests". The fact is that there's a lot of information here that we've been hearing such debates for days, and that's what we're actually dealing with is one fact that I seem to be impressed by the amount of geniuses, cosmongers, encyclopaedists, renaissance types who talk about everything and everything without ever stopping from opposition lines, unfortunately, this doesn't apply to a colleague of Martin or Davor, I want to say it. So it would really be said that such a bunch of geniuses left such a wetland, such an economic hiroshima, such hopelessness, a moral breakdown, corruption like mud dragging on the feet of the politicians who led this country. How does that happen? What happened to a group of geniuses and cosmonauts and encyclopaedists and such that a river of greatness and patriotism would leave such a swamp? And now they're attacking this government so slow as some society looks communally clean that swamp, they're fulfilling the conditions to bloom flowers, that's right. You imagine in two years you can do what's impossible in a lot more time. Only when it comes to the interest deficit you left us last year is the total deficit. Here's what this is about, colleague Martincevic, so I'm wondering if you and the irony I understand are you talking about these enemies for national interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53829	Reply to the replica Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53830	Well, here's to politics, so ideologies and bat frogs, we're pretty successful at finding a thousand and one reason why projects don't go through, to stop, not to move anything, and we're very skilled at that. And opposition and others. So, we have to agree to ourselves whether we really want investors and investments to come, or whether we want to keep finding a thousand and one obstacle and one thousand reasons why nothing in Croatia should happen and not start.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53831	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53832	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Martincevic, in his introduction, you have accurately identified the situation in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, less jobs, more and more unemployed, and that the only way out of the crisis is through the growth of investments and you say we have to open the door for investors. However, this law and the measures proposed by the government in my opinion are not a solution. The purpose of this law is that the obstacle to Croatia's investment is primarily local self-government, and we will marginalise it with this law and an overcomplicated system of spatial order. It's a fundamental message from this law. And this Law is about to marginalise local self-government because it interferes with investments on the one hand and on the other hand is an additional brake of over-complication of the spatial arrangement system. I think it's for all of us who read this law from this law to read. However, a much bigger problem with investment in Croatia is the lack of tax system, the constant announcement of new taxes, such as real estate taxes, the announcement of an increase in VAT, the announcement of an increase in VAT rates, the increase in energy prices, the increase in labour prices. They're basic problems. And you believe that a real investor who really intends to invest in Croatia, first of all, for his own sake, is looking for a spatial document that will be arranged immediately at the beginning, before the investment begins where the basic infrastructure needs where his road is, where his water is, where his electricity is, etc., etc. So bypassing the spatial plan will bounce on the investor's head, that's what it is, that's what we want to say. And the right obstacle is an unsettled system in which the investor will function if he even engages in that investment. And that's the difference between our approach and what's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53833	Thank you. Reply to the replica Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53834	/Intruder: Turn on the microphone./ And it's not a complete solution, it's part of the solution. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Part of the Act on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment is part of the Strategic Investments Act. Of course, the stability of the tax system is necessary, of course it is essential that we improve the business climate in Croatia. These are all segments that must be realized, realised in order for Croatia to realize the idea of being tempting to investors. As far as local self-government is concerned, it's up to you. That's what I believe you know best. There are units of local self-government that are extremely well placed towards all investments, according to all investors, domestic and foreign, etc., solve it well, quickly, quality, have a project, things are done. There are those where you don't do it at all. So those who block, where things have been standing for years, etc. So we can't leave it that way. That's why there's got to be one law like this, one solution like this. And of course the representatives of the local self-government units will be involved. You can see, then, that in the amendments to this Act, we have in our second reading committee representatives, mayors, or mayors and mayors from the local self-government unit where the project is being implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53835	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53836	The esteemed representative said those who are against this law. No one is against this law with this title, but it's against a law like this. Read a little, because this law is currently unfortunately in place, you can today, I've been spinning here, so read the article in the New List how this law can build a gas station in Pravina and how a land transaction can be done by ignoring a local self-government unit, ignoring the city of Rijeka, ignoring everything because the ministry has decided and made something possible. So this law as it is drawn up, this is more of a Rules of Procedure on the work of some commission or strategically as it is called, a group that will conduct some kind of investment. We don't have a basic document based on which we could make this law. I already said that. We don't have a development strategy, we don't have an energy development strategy, we don't have a transport integrated strategy that we still need to do, we're wandering from... The tracks from one side to the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one's against investments in the dapaca, especially local self-government units. What this Law allows, takes and removes scissors to the units of local self-government. The fact that the mayor or mayor is in some commission with 11 members, it's just a process to blur the public's eyes, nothing more. That's what your colleagues will tell you, because I've talked to them and they're thinking the way I think. So in Croatia we have business zones in all municipalities and cities that are not filled. We have a mass, hundreds of acres of property legally solved land that can offer investors right away. There's no need to throw off the forest-economic grounds of the forest, there's no allowing any kind of, someone's going to remember the waste burner in some forest area so the ministry's going to give ignoring the local self-government unit and say the mayor or mayor was in the commission. You can't do that. We're all for investment, we all want investment. We all have to have them but not this way. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53837	Reply to the replica Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53838	Well, I have to admit, I'm a little surprised, but I realized that the HDZ Club supports this law. You've now counted everything and everything that's wrong with this law. However, here I have this promotion of the Ministry of Economy where it writes, despite the public hearing procedure conducted, the public calls I also made in the Parliament, says the minister, none of the club representatives made proposals or objections to the law. So why didn't you make suggestions for them to fit in? We had two readings. Here's what your colleague Dalic said about how long the law-making procedure is going on. So why didn't you constructively engage in making the law look better?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53839	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53840	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Martincevic, on many occasions you said we were unable to attract investors. I don't know who you think it should attract investors, namely the Ministry of Economy, if we're going to remember a little half-yearly government budget reports from last week spent 5.38% of the money in the first 6 months to attract investments, to promote the Croatian economy by 6 months 2.5% of the planned 2 million kunas of only 50,000 kuna. This best explains how the Ministry of Economy is working to attract investors' investments and promote the Croatian economy, and it was very interesting to hear that you think that Vice President Cacic is still Deputy Prime Minister in order to be much more investors and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53841	Replication response, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53842	I'm glad you agree with me, so there are more of us who are so thinking about who did what in attracting investors obviously didn't even go through the government, and of course this government is through these measures, through these legal solutions and through these proposals doing something in this direction to do better and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53843	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53844	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I must say, with a lot of findings you've made, I agree with your part of the speech, but I definitely disagree with one, and that's the part where you talked about the causes of this dramatic rise in unemployment. So over 340 thousand unemployed today, to remind only in 2011 at this time was the number of unemployed below 300 thousand. You inherited it to me at the end of the 12th month 2011 a 315 thousand figure, so this number of unemployed back two years is a direct consequence of everything this government has done to the very economy and investors. You further said and talked about a negative attitude towards entrepreneurs. So whoever screams at entrepreneurs every day, who declares them criminals and guilty of this condition. 8 billion kunas have received from this government, and they are doing nothing and now as a colleague mentioned by private people, so what could be the response to such polls than 70%, well that even 30%, if true, believe in Croatian entrepreneurs at all, and that every day both from this Parliament and from the front lines of the ruling coalition come threats and such attitudes towards entrepreneurs. You're talking about taxes and the collapse of legal and tax security. So who does it every day? So who did this tax terror that happens these days and announces a new, new and new one every day. The SDP introduces new taxes, then you try to iron it in some way and then everything is as agreed, but these are all the consequences of your government's work at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53845	Thank you. Thank you very much. Replication response, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53846	Here you go with numbers on who left what to whom, so I'll say that the HDZ government left 30% of the investment drop in 2011 and 27% of their share in GDP. And as for the anti-enterprise climate, we agree, we all have to give clear and positive signals to private investors, domestic and foreign investors, so that they can invest here, that they have investment stability, and this law is one of the solutions, one of the very good and quality solutions how to give them that kind of sign and such signals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53847	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'd just say the opposite. You have stated here that this law will bring new jobs. I think that's the problem, that this law does not provide and does not allow it because I can't read anywhere, and I talked to people who follow economic movements and analysts who say that this is exactly the main disadvantage of this law, that this law does not allow new jobs to be opened, does not allow more even regional development in Croatia, because it all comes down to the fact that it will accelerate the process of issuing permits that we all agree with, but the authorisation processes should be speeded up for everyone, just for everyone. So it's not the law's problem, it's not really the law's main intensities. If that's the main intensity, then we were wrong. And what other people say when they're discussing this, that it's actually a law that's actually in that good definition of a political strategy, that it's a concept to achieve its own set goals. Now it's just a question of whose goals these are. I would ask you to explain what I said at the beginning, so which part of this law will allow for the opening of new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53849	Replication response, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53850	No part of this law is directed to create new jobs now by the provision of Article 13. This law, together with all other measures and laws implemented by the Government and implemented by it, must reach and enable investors to come to invest and create jobs. The law itself with one of its articles, none of its provisions, of course, will be able to do so. However, this law will significantly speed up procedures, facilitate investment opportunities and I believe it will encourage investors both foreign and domestic to come to invest here in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53851	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53852	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you are expressing concern, or you are talking about your critics and critics of the government who express concern, concern for national interests, concern for investment. I think that in part, no matter how ironic you said it, you should and understand it because the most famous investor with only state money was HDZ itself, they were HDZ's. They're famous builders. So after the conversion and privatisation of the '90s to the final year of 2011 they gave themselves to a lot of construction, supply of goods and services and everything, literally everything cost 2 or 3 times more. Never knew how long it would take, never knew the quality. As a rule, only suppliers and performers knew each other. Now how did this end and how did they write their economic policy? They never wrote it. She's now being revealed in court halls. And what they're offering right now and what they're offering is really not for any economic textbook, but it's for a textbook of crime. And now we literally see this concern for national interests, we see how many zeros of their patriotism and patriotism have written.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53853	The answer to the line, respected... Oh, no? Nisha. The next replica and respected vice president of Dom Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53854	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I have to admit that I didn't know that information when you presented the information about the entrepreneurial climate. In fact, as a professional view, I know something from biology and climate. The climate can't change overnight. It's a long-term process not only in the atmosphere or on earth or elsewhere. It's also in entrepreneurship. However, in order to be able to do the quality of this law in one part and to go on, the ultimate goal is to in some way improve the investment climate, i.e. the investment environment. But what moved our citizens to have such resistance to private entrepreneurs? In the 1990s, we chose to be a state and a society of capital, which followed. Well, here it is, whether it is on that investment climate and citizens' resistance, of course, that investors are potentially reading about it. Was it conversion and privatisation? Were the traces of a series of activities of certain political structures? Could the Split Riva have contributed to that, too? Has the process headed towards the former Prime Minister contributed to the current, in fact, bad investment climate and disdain, citizens' resistance. Is that practically in the trial and process the political option that led the country for the last 8 years before this government. And in conclusion, whether the investment climate may also be affected by these developments in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which should be said in some way the ambassador of our economy outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53855	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53856	Well, you've noticed this very well. So, a lot of things have affected this poor attitude towards entrepreneurs, towards private investors, and of course from conversion and privatisation to crime all these last 20 years, which took place in Croatia and the Croatian economy. It all contributed to that. However, now is the time to change it quickly, to change it effectively, and not to overheat it in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53857	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53858	In her presentation, counterpart Natalija Martincevic said that tax announcements are not good for the investment climate and for the promotion and growth of investments, which of course absolutely stands, and of course no one who announces taxes or talks about taxes is talking about because he wants to, but because he is trying to solve a situation that is more or less impossible in Croatia about what has been talked about here with huge debts, with a deficit of the state budget, with hidden deficits, with large and public spending, with public spending created that the state can hardly endure, with fictitious jobs in terms of general recession in the world, it is very difficult to expect that a government can change the situation overnight. And in order to maintain the budget at all, of course, the means, since significant shifts are not possible quickly, the tax policy remains of course. But tax announcements are certainly not good. I must stress here on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club since some things, some interpretations of the media are already becoming true and just before my colleague Maric is talking about the announcement of a real estate tax that was not spoken of at all. I must make it very clear that the HNS remains on its principle that there are no new tax burdens until there is economic growth in Croatia that you stressed in your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53859	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Labourists, the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar are coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53860	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law and Croatia give way to the blackmail of economic imperialism. Europe is slowly but certainly expanding the economic apartheid carried out by strong multinational companies and banks. They are already so strong and strong that they are not only leading a mutual duel on the market in order to take over a market, but they are so strong that they can influence, blackmail and dictate economic policies of states that have come out of the economic crisis too late. And that's a fact. Everything that can be used for economic development in Croatia is welcome. And that part of the law that talks about the accelerated process of resolving and breaking bureaucratic resistance to investors in order to get the documents they need as soon as possible is not so controversial. It may have been possible to solve this differently, although I always take a reserve, because I learned that no law has solved any problem because the problems solve people rather than laws, and if the same people will apply these laws and so far have not applied existing laws, then I have no great illusion of great success. But when we look at the consequences of any legislative solution, we must look equally at positive but possibly negative consequences. It is clear to me, too, that the government puts and pushes the positive consequences they expect of such a law. But this debate on the other possible negative consequences is difficult to accept, most often without any arguments refuses and you will see when such a law is adopted in application that it will be about the same number of negative and positive consequences. What are the criteria for a project that declares strategic significance? It is prescribed in Article 5, these are criteria which are not measurable. They can't be calculated either in advance or backwards. They're arbitral. Three, five people, seven of them will decide on the basis of criteria that each of them can interpret in different ways because there is no measurable criterion for any investment to receive a strategic or developmental classification in advance for the state. Another problem, too, will be applied unequally. It won't be the same approach to every project that comes to the table. It is thus already beginning the possibility of negative consequences of such a legislative solution. In fact, we're not going to apply the criteria evenly, but we're doing the first group of problems. After a description of these criteria, such as chewing gum, there is only one measurable criterion, which is the level of investment from 20 to more than 150 million kuna and 6 activities that are listed here, which are likely to have 20 subdivisions in each of them. It's the first big grudge against the law. Secondly, what does this famous commission in Article 8 of this Law do? First, it says that the commission's task is to assess the proposal in point 1. On the other hand, point 3 states that they are giving opinions, and in Article 9(3) says that the ministry is making a decision based on an assessment of the commission. Now, an evaluation, an opinion, an evaluation? Three different terms are used in the responsibility of the commission and what is particularly confusing writes that the commission proposes first to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, gives an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Article 8, and in Article 9, it states that the decision to include projects on the list is made by the competent ministry. Try to get out of this procedure in Articles 8 and 9 because if I really were a member of the commission, I really wouldn't know what to do. Article 16 and real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Government gives without competition with the right to acquire ownership. So, without competition, without collecting offers in which all properties and plus forests, forest land, agricultural land and public roads are involved. Croatia is full of empty and half-empty various industrial business zones and state property if you remember the debate on the strategy that we haven't even succeeded yet, it's so numerous, it's not listed let alone classify it. And now the Government is going forward and allows the foundation of Article 3 to apply private investment project to the private asset-execution institute. But not only the land but also now the question arises if, without the price criteria at which the government will give a minority on behalf of the people and the state free of charge, how can the private property of the exorcism system allow people to remain without their land, with impertinently low fees? Remember the Golf Act, remember the spatial plans if I do not cheat 63 golf courses according to the spatial plans in Croatia have existed and see the devil 60% of the territory of these playgrounds should be on private land. And it's all legal. So we have experience which means when we accept such spatial plans as facts. The final draft of the law left out former Article 8 which said that there is a category of entrepreneurs and a specific category which cannot obtain such a type of support from the state to create an entrepreneurial climate. And now by eradicating this, which we did not ask to delete, eradicating this Article 8 indicates that without a public tender with the application of the private property grant institute, this support and the benefits of the tax debtors, people in the process or convicted of bribery and corruption, state officials of local and regional people who have been convicted or prosecuted because of abuse of powers and positions, persons convicted of fraud in economic business, or those who have been prosecuted for fraud, and even those who have teamed up in criminal groups. Is it possible that such entrepreneurs will benefit from the benefits of this law? A few months ago, the finance minister said that, say, the INA owes the state budget of 260 million kuna taxes. This means that those who today owe 260 million kuna taxes can ask for their project and have the right to declare it strategical, developmental importance, interest in the Republic of Croatia. We have another strategic partner who was scheduled to start building a large strategic partner airport in Zagreb, his works were suspended because of archaeological findings. They buried the shovel, and after 20cm scratching the country, they reached archaeological sites, and therefore the works are standing and therefore the investment does not go further. You see how quickly they figure out how to legally use the possibility of non-compliance with the contract. However, when this round of investment moves towards the area of municipal waste management, and especially hazardous waste, then you will see which characters will all be state partners. Besides looking at today's business partners of the Environment and the Ministry Fund, some might be surprised who comes first in the amount of money he gets, direct state money, I assume that it will be the biggest entrepreneur in two years and get the Golden Kuna of the HGK. But even those who do not pay workers wages will get the benefits of this law that cheat the state, and they pay the workers and report them to minimum wages below the table, and those who establish five companies, one of them is competing for these projects, and workers have been reported in that company, which is not only in losses to taxpayers, but in losses for years. And when an inspection or stop comes, and then they don't start a 6th company, so all the workers are relocated to a new company, and they get a job from the state, say, at this point, it's very popular on demining business. That's all we have today, are these examples not made up but are obviously not enough for government representatives to realize that and these negative consequences we must take into account extremely well. And because of this, we open the doors not only to Croatians but also to entrepreneurs from other countries from crime miles to money launderers and to those who will use such an institute in Croatia and then go and run away and leave the workers on the street. And we have such cases where the owners of the companies simply left Croatia, and the workers to this day, while the work books were important and even in force they couldn't even get 3.4 such a factory in Croatia today. Foreign investors make money, and that's good. And now I ask why the government did not remember to offer yet another condition of obtaining such a right that the question of reinvesting the profits they achieve in at least the next 15 years will not amount to Croatia but will reinvest in Croatia. 2 billion euros in profits were made on the basis of foreign investments from Croatia, and 600 million euros were brought to Croatia on the basis of our investments abroad. So if we give state property and a private exemption system to private investors and declare them state partners that we do not negotiate with them and that they will not earn at least 15 years of their business development in Croatia and what they achieve because of these benefits, because they will have cheaper investments and also in the tax system that they have an obligation to reinvest in Croatia, or we really don't care where the profits come from and whether it really is a single goal for us to justify it as a creation and opening of a new business climate. This law, when it is in force, will not apply only to those who are operating under the law who pay taxes that have collective contracts, who pay workers and who are not in the chain of international crime. But unfortunately it will also enable this very dubious capital and these extremely suspicious entrepreneurs, not to come to Croatia they can come to Croatia so far, but with the plenty of help of the state, with the granting of Croatian state property, and after that no one will ever be able to take that property away from them again. And after two years, neither does he get a trace of the movement of capital because he'll have dozens of companies hiding and cutting profits. These are the reasons for the huge reserve under this law, so Article 16 is completely unacceptable and by the absence of Article 8 where the state would protect itself from criminals in the economy with state support is another reason why this law cannot be supported by laborists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53861	Thank you very much. Now a dozen replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53862	Dear colleague Lesar, I know that you are not happy when you are replicated from your club, but I could not resist the first sentence you have said that is very accurate in action is economic imperialism and economic apartheid. A short time ago, we heard that Croatian citizens in the 1990s opted for a state and a society of capital. That's a notorious lie. No one has ever asked Croatian citizens if they are for a company of capital or not for a society of capital. They pleaded for one, answered one question: whether they wanted to live more in Yugoslavia, said they did not want to live in Yugoslavia. We broke up with the state. They have opted for democracy, they have opted for a society of work in which they will be able to work and live on the basis of their work. No one and particularly not the defenders sought the economic imperialism and economic apartheid that you well detected, which is not of course a haven in Croatia but in all of Europe, in North America, in many, in most of the globe. What we have today, this economic imperialism, the economic apartheid is simply... It's what tells citizens that the only thing that's possible, which is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] said it was the end of a man that's the only model we have today that's the ideal model and there's no other model. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a complete lie. There are other models you can see, which are seen in some parts of Europe, especially in Scandinavian countries where such economic imperialism is far smaller. And what you want with this law, that's exactly what Encourage economic imperialism. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53863	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53864	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar, for saying that the criteria are not quantifiable, but they are not verifiable either. What if someone gets an accelerated procedure based on a project exceeding 150 million kuna and is not 150 but 90 in its execution? Who's gonna undo all that? No one. The implementation of these laws is therefore not guaranteed. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, the strategy is to set long-term goals. But it must also answer the question of how these long-term objectives will be achieved. But the government has no strategy, it changes the strategy faster than it changes night by day. Let's just remember the way to Qatar with the plane when it went like on, in the wedding procession, there was an investment tsunami, about returning nothing. Economic activity is dropping. After Katara was replaced with Azerbaijan, after Azerbaijan Indonesia, activity continued to fall and fall. There the first vice president of the government said it wasn't him, that his name wasn't the bull that was sitting, it was the man who was working. Today we have a Deputy Prime Minister who explains the inexplicable. It's his only job. Economic policy has become an instrument of discrimination and this is a major obstacle to economic activity. And maybe we will achieve growth one day but we will not develop and development should be a strategic goal rather than growth. Because the realization of growth without development is only in the interest of those. Thus, this law is not the law to encourage investment activity, but the law to protect the investment of seven magnificent ones. Croatia needs not such a law, but a strategy of turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53865	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53866	I agree with you that the criteria of the law are not verifiable, not by me or before, especially after the end of such an investment cycle. But that we don't even try to control what the state is doing after the contract is concluded, we also have a fresh example back two, three days. The state has sold one shipyard and there are mutually prescribed obligations in that contract. No one has supervised or controlled whether the customer respects those contract clauses where it has assumed certain obligations in terms of production and obligations towards workers. And when the workers warn that they're declared terrorists. So the workers who warned them about it were declared terrorists. And nothing to anyone, look out for anyone. And your insistence that instead of just growing, we talk about development is completely justified. Because one is the economic growth that you can achieve by firing workers, by cutting wages. You'll have growth... The issue is development in the economy and society means that it creates value to be more justly redeployed within the society itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why that accent is, I agree with you, and I'll use it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53867	Dear Representative Frano Matušić and next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53868	Thank you, Mr. President. I see that you agree with the term "economic apartheid" that our colleague Maric has inaugurated, and it is indeed in action in the Republic of Croatia. But what's important is we're talking today about strategic investment without having a strategy before. That's the key. It's actually the key to this whole situation. And actually there's a question of what we're discussing here. Investments greater than 150 million kuna or in islands of more than 20 million kuna. So investment on the islands of a million kuna is a strategic investment, let alone 20 million kuna or 5 million kuna, it's a strategic investment. Because the politics of this government has made the islands more distant from the land. They're talking about obstacles to the law. So why haven't we changed laws where there are obstacles? Why we haven't changed legal deadlines in the Laws of Spatial Construction, building spaces. So spatial, construction law, etc. other spatial documents. Why didn't we do it? Why did the Ministry of Economy not sit down with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and say which deadlines should be shortened. But not just for some. Not just for those who are alike, but for all citizens. For everyone, anyone who wants to invest a million, two million kuna, why isn't that a strategic investment? That's exactly what strategic investment is. They don't understand that in the government. Why? They do not realize that the foundation of economy and development must be small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. That's the foundation. In one Germany that is today Europe's most developed country. It's the foundation, the economy. The basis of development is small and medium entrepreneurship. A small businessman will not invest 150 million kunas, and he can invest 30 million kunas or 2 million kunas or 5 million kunas. Why don't we give these people legal assumptions that's a question, and we don't get a law that actually introduces small-door corruption through article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53869	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53870	Yes, a fellow respected, small and medium-sized enterprise that is fastest, most capable of adapting to new conditions in a large part is also relying on the large sector, therefore on large companies. We must never forget that because small and medium entrepreneurship without large industrial giants is hard to survive. But if I were right to insist that the criteria set out in Article 8 must be an integral part of the law and... it must not vote and adopt this law has proved to them the following fact be careful. In December 2011. The European Commission has proposed, agreed with the European Parliament and is expected to adopt a special European concession contract directive next month that regulates who at European Union level must be prohibited concession contracts and such positions. And not to quote here the whole text of that point of the directive, by its content, is almost identical to that of the first-reading article 8. So we are now in a situation to adopt, we have a law in front of us, in a month it will be a European directive, we do not have that provision, and we have an obligation to respect the legal gains of the European Union that goes towards this, obviously not without the devil, on the basis of experience which requires that Member States in their legislation and the issue of such concessions, the special benefits must exclude tax evasion, corruption, the damage of the financial interests not only of the country concerned but of the European Union and the serious other violations. So if that's not a strong enough argument right now, then I guess somebody can take this as an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53871	Dear Representative Branko Bačić, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53872	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you say you question the success of this law and the Labour Club you say will not support this law. You see, this law mentions 16 laws that are in a certain way barriers to investment in Croatia and now the government is passing a new law that needs to compensate for the lack of these laws. I would also accept that law if those laws that we amend by this law or whose provisions we put out of force, had been inherited by the government from the previous governments, but of the 17 laws that have been listed there 14 have been passed by the government over the past two years, over the past 22 months. And isn't it strange to all of us here that the government is passing a law on the protection of the environment and nature, and that this law is now devastationing and certain provisions puts out of force or adopting a law on agricultural land in which it also says that it will be in a function of encouraging investment, and now that law is not valid because it needs to be put out of force by this law. So it's passed the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, so we're putting them out of force again with this law. It's not clear to me that in 22 months when they changed all 14 laws why they didn't immediately introduce so-called laws. the corporate investment climate and those laws changed, this law should not. If this were at the beginning of the government, in the 1st month when it took responsibility for state-leading, this law passed... because it would prevent the shortcomings of previous governments, and then slowly the law would change and align with this basic intensity that stems from this law. This is how I wonder why after 22 months you've changed all the laws now, by one law, you're changing all those laws. Is it in a certain way a recognition of our own defeat that we have misplanned through the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53873	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53874	Look, buddy, I'm even more worried about the next fact. We have established various different investment agencies, investment incentives, investment monitoring in all possible sectors, and some people work in these agencies. The ministries have their own administrations, within the Ministry of Economy of Mining, the administration for this, the administration for that. And now and this law will be implemented by some people, probably not by us from Brussels, Bonn, Paris, Rome, but by us. So what's the difference now? These same people whether this law is implemented through the Agency for Desire or the Management of Evilness, only now they will be called members of the commission and members of the task force. So if these same people who are in the system so far didn't know, they couldn't and there were problems, why now they're suddenly more efficient when the members of the task force are more effective. Or the background of this law is precisely readable in Article 5, with the absence of criteria that would be measurable and verifiable to everyone in advance after the end of the investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53875	Dear Representative Petar Baranovic and a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53876	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honored colleague Lesar, listening to your exposure, may agree with you that this law, as well as other laws, has its positive and negative consequences and you have naturally referred as an opposition politician to what you consider to be the negative consequences of this law, ignoring the truth and the moment in which we are discussing this law and strategic investment and even investment in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, a series of speakers before and I think even you, not perhaps numerically but in principle you mentioned the problem of unemployment, the economic downturn, everything we face today, and I can't figure out the logic by which we run away from the truth, which is that we need investments, even in the context of the domination of an economic apartheid or imperialism as you said. You also mentioned what I couldn't agree with you, that there were no criteria. In this law, the criteria are the only possible. It would be much better if it were possible to go into detail, but unfortunately we're not in that position today, we don't have time and we don't have room for maneuvers. The Census of the value of the 150 million kuna project and, to more or those lower census related to the area of special state care, i.e. islands or about imperatives, that within some time period in which we can do so, we withdraw as much EU funds as possible are clear criteria and, unfortunately, in my opinion, the only possible one at this point. I wish we had a moment of debate about this law in a better conditioned state with better finances, a better economy and less unemployed. But it's a conjecture of something that's not only been measured for years, but also for decades of missed and bad politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53877	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53878	Yes, my colleague Baranovic would do so if you heard what you would like to hear and the speaker did not say. I mentioned one of the positive sides of this law and I said if it leads to the acceleration of the paper and paperwork process it's a good shift. Whether it takes this special law or through other laws it might be resolved I said I don't know. But if that acceleration occurs, it's one of the positive sides of this law. And when you mention that we have to admit the truth that we need investments, of course we do. But you remembered that now. And I warned and said about Croatia's entry into the EU that Croatia is losing the CEFTA market and that it will happen to us that Croatian entrepreneurs will go from the Croatian market to invest in CEFTA members, that we will lose jobs, investment potential, that we will have cheaper imports from the European market due to the drop in customs duties. And our problem of placing our products on the CEFTA market is going to be much harder. And that's what happened. Potential investors in the Croatian food industry are no longer investing in Croatia, but must be on the CEFTA market. And I'll finish the next one. If you have the illusion that some serious investors from the EU area will come to invest in Croatia, then you are in great error. They have more or less satisfied their investment appetites with the banking system, telecommunications, pharmaceutical industry and real estate now lately. We can save serious investment from those states with which I quote a member of the government from a meeting here in the Parliament a few days ago we don't know what to do with them. For example, Russia, China, the east as a whole. But here we have a problem with me unclear reasons why these investments are still undesirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53879	New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you have begun your debate with the sentence that Croatia is giving in to economic or economic imperialism. And I also mentioned earlier that this law resembles one strategy, one concept to achieve its own, set goals, but I just don't know whose goals. If it didn't, then he'd actually be a strategy of song and coincidence, so now after this debate of yours, I'm asking the question in principle to fill out a little bit more of his debate whether you have any knowledge of whose objectives it is, for whose purposes it is then doing this law, since you have made it very clear that it is about giving in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53881	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53882	Dear colleague Hrg, I already have one rule that everything I know, the rule of conduct and speech, I usually speak publicly. I would also like to, and probably you would be happier and happier if at this point we had a list of possible 10, 15, 20 such big projects that are already known to be of interest, that someone once told someone somewhere in Croatia would invest in energy if we had such and such conditions. We would build this or I don't know how to build this. Then it's about somewhere on the trail that we know in advance of which one. Let's say someone is building a car factory in Croatia. He wants any big company to come and build a car factory in Croatia that will have 15,000 jobs. Then you see we're talking about a concrete project, then we know what we're talking about. Now we're talking about such large investment offers, but we don't know who, where, or anything, or any values, or any jobs, but we know we have to pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53883	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53884	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lesar, you have rightly mentioned, among others, why you will not give your vote to this law. One of the reasons I think is that one of the biggest surprises when the law arrived at another reading is the fact that Article 8. So that it is possible by the final proposal of the law to allow large investors to be themselves and that the government favors them and that the government gives them wind in the back, regardless of what is possible and legally condemned for the crimes of serious economic crime. So, not that what would be minimum must give evidence that they are not being prosecuted for any crime, but that whole article, which had such fences, is not enough in my opinion, has been deleted. And the other thing, in this short time I want to warn about the problem of the final bill is that some parts are definitely anti-constitutional, so inconsistencies with Article 49, 50, but in particular 52. Because the law says that, for example, land or forests can be given without competition if it is a large investor. And that's exactly Article 52. The constitution says that the land and forests are under the special care of the state, so the Republic of Croatia as the Constitution clearly states. Therefore, this law, unfortunately, if voted, will be able to collapse in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53885	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53886	My colleagues Kosor have now given me the opportunity to read about the proposal for a European directive that imposes exclusion from business with the state in a concessional sense and persuasion. "Concessions must not be allocated to economic operators participating in criminal organisations or found guilty of corruption, fraud at the expense of EU financial interests or money laundering. Non-payment of taxes or contributions should also be sanctioned by mandatory exclusion at EU level. In addition, the contracting authorities should be able to exclude candidates or tenderers for serious infringements of national or European legislation aimed at protecting public interest in accordance with the EU Treaty or where the economic operator has demonstrated the meaning or operational shortcomings in meeting the obligations set out in the previous concession agreement or similar nature with the same contract entity." What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53887	Thank you. New replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53888	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lesar, you have come naturally with that imperialist law to create these imperialists, so no one gives anyone free of charge except what this law will give, what characters will be partners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia etc., etc. That I don't quote you any further. But it clearly points to one negative attitude. We keep talking about the entrepreneurship climate and your attitude is immediately at the beginning as if this government was not chosen by the Croatian Parliament, as if this law rather than by the imperialists I don't know if you belong to these, it doesn't give anyone free of charge. Well, it says here in the law that what needs to be sold by the state, and there's state property, at market value. And it will only be sold because it is in the spatial plan of the county or the city, and the spatial plan of the county and the city clearly says that the basic plan that regulates the purpose and use of space for procedures in space is. So, the local unit or regional self-government has defined that, with a spatial plan, it has to function as a particular purpose. This spatial plan dictates the basic objectives of purpose and economic spatial purpose. So here the state, the government this law that we believe to pass does not define the purpose of space, it only implements that purpose and speeds up processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53889	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53890	Now I really don't understand what kind of government's choice, and who chose her has to do with this law? I couldn't connect that, and I couldn't figure it out. But my esteemed colleague is not a priori negative, but by my debate I am trying to help you apply this new European directive and that the competition over these benefits that you intend to give the law drive away or that the possibility of participation in this process is minimised when it comes to fraud and thieves. That's one thing. And secondly, no matter who or how the Government has chosen I believe that and then the Constitution like you and I should be respected, and the solution to the availability of state property when natural goods are at stake in this law is contrary to the Constitution. But it's not up to you or me to decide, it's the Constitutional Court, so we'll see the decision when the proceedings are initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53891	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53892	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here we are finally in this House, and otherwise we have reached a consensus, that we need investments and we want them. And now we're actually talking about a question about whether to improve a series of laws, the 16 laws here say, is it possible to speed up the state administration or to pass one law that I say does not derivate those laws but accelerates the procedures for these desperately needed investments. And now you fellow Lesar, in your discussion on behalf of the Labour Club, say this, quote: "According to this law, Croatian government partners will be proven criminals, money launderers etc., etc." I ask you first where did you read it in this law? Secondly, on what basis, how is it estimated who are proven criminals or money launderers, etc., and if we show and prove, if you find a magic formula for that, tell me how to legally install it into the law and prevent such people from applying for such projects? And I will not speak of the trust of the Croatian government that actually makes decisions about it, which has been chosen by us and by the people. The second thing you say will be profited by employers who don't pay their salaries. Well, Mr. Lesar, we've passed the law here together, proposed by the government of Zoran Milanovic, that failure to pay is a criminal offense. The third thing you said was that this law would be profited by those employers closing down their five firms and then opening the sixth, etc. So in this House, we have also adopted amendments to the Tax Law on the proposal of this government, in which we are building legal personality into the IRS and which we are preventing that from happening. So, please stop, you're still speaking for the club, maybe the media will pass you along, but you have to hold back and actually stop telling the truth. One day you still have to become constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53893	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53894	I ask you to free yourself from the practice of acting within your party and tell others what you can and cannot say and do not give me the lessons that I can speak. I was very clear, the problem is that the final draft of the law left out the provision of Article 8 which clearly, unequivocally regulated who cannot be a partner of the kind of project that this law speaks of. By the very fact that there is no such provision in the law now, I am convinced that sooner or later you will realize that there are also those who break the laws in the entrepreneurship market. After all, if I don't remember, it was you who personally had problems with one such group that was operating with the city of Zagreb and in the area of the city of Zagreb that violated the laws in the morning, and in the afternoon received state money, benefits, discounts, glares, looking through the fingers. So you had to be aware of how dangerous it is when such entrepreneurs enter a circle of state power no matter who is in power. A colleague of this law is not just passed during your term of office or yes?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53895	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It's up to the IDS club and the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53896	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In our second reading, the Final Proposal of the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects, which is a fact of the number of articles, is not large but the law which includes a wide range of possible investments as strategic projects and laws, which gives, and not small powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so that at this moment it is very difficult to predict both the positive and negative effects of its application, especially if we take into account, and I believe that we should, almost, adopt and the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning, which are directly in line with this Act on Strategic Investment Projects. I personally believe that responsibility and obligation is on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the obligation and responsibility of our parliamentary representatives to create both clear and applicable and sustainable rules, rules that define primarily the transparency of the process, rules that prevent any investment that takes away the potential of development for future generations, rules that preserve the most valuable Croatian resources, rules that support investments that create new added value and create new jobs and rules that guarantee the real sector both stable and secure operating conditions. Between the two readings of the proposal and this final draft of the law through the discussion in the Committee on Tourism, I have proposed a supplement to Article 27 of the law to ensure the transparency of the procedure, which would include in the decision-making process whether the municipal or city council, thereby removing any kind of potential damage in the area of municipalities or cities and guaranteeing the investor the security of the implementation of the project. Therefore, the IDS Club proposes only one thing, that the competent central state body request the agreement of that municipal or city council where the investment is planned, that the municipal or city council is obliged to be manifest within 30 days, and that if the municipal or city council is not apparent within 30 days, it will be deemed that the agreement has been issued. We propose for this reason that all strategic investment documents must be in line with the applicable spatial order implementation documents, including urban and including a detailed plan. Since this final proposal for a law determines that an investment can occur without an urban or without a detailed plan, then, according to our proposal, the plan can replace the decision of the municipal or city council. I would like to point out on this occasion that Article 134i is Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed the right of local environments to decide for themselves on the purpose and method of use of space and, therefore, on behalf of the IDS Club, we have made an amendment supplementing Article 27 of the final draft of the law. During the debate on the board, and during today's debate, I believe that we are not really parliamentary representatives so illiterate, but I think the public is being manipulated on purpose and consciously with one fact, and it is said that the spatial and general urban agenda is defined for the purpose of space. So I'm asking myself, you and the public the next question, is there any one of us who is against the investment today? I'll be free to say no. But then the next question comes to me, do we feel a commitment and responsibility, do we want to preserve the most valuable resources? Now I'm coming into a dilemma. On the basis of this final draft of the law, I am obliged to give specific explanations to my colleagues and colleagues, as such a question has been addressed to me. Okay, Gianni, since the spatial plan and the general plan define the purpose of using space why you're afraid because there is no obligation of urban or detailed plan in the law. What exactly are you afraid of? If I don't remember, if I remember correctly, we were just on this body discussing the Tourism Development Strategy. So I'm going to stick to one topic, one area and the region I come from. Is Croatia today a competitive tourist country in the world? It is. Do we want to become more competitive? We do. Is Croatia's beautiful, preserved today, despite the legalization of illegal objects still a beautiful environment? It is. Do we have to guard it or can we just relax on individual investors, so now I'm going to be cynical about 20 million euros to devastate what many generations before us have inherited, protected and preserved? Now I'm going to go for example to the town of Rovinj whose mayor I am. They say to me and my associates that we are extremely conservative, that we are not flexible with investors and wonders in these four years these criteria have realised three strategic investments of 230, 250, 330 million kuna. Now, with a domestic company in our city, we are preparing a document, a project of 70 million euros. If there's no urban plan already, if there's no detailed plan, then can't those 30 days be asked about those people living on the site are so many obstacles, it's so far out of the way that people on this territory are asking them, I'm going to show them exactly 100 acres, the entire northern aquarium of Rovinj, where, according to spatial and general, the marina can. No detailed plan, no urban plan, ok. Make it a marina. How many hotels are there going to be? How many mastodons are there going to be? How many brutal potential investments will occur in that 100-hectare area. What do you think, that destination in its value will fall down or keep its value? He'll fall down. Now I'm asking if my hand, by law, is your hand supporting this law and without asking the municipal or city council, is there anyone who will suffer the consequences tomorrow? Who's gonna pay for the damage? Someone was raising you know the credit to build themselves a house for apartments. Someone's got to get that loan back. Someone today allows their child to pay for his scholarship and that he is in school. Are we just going to go through this so easily because we need investment? I'm moving on. The spacious general urban plan defines the tourist purpose. In the country of Croatia, let us be clear and clear, some areas have a standard of camps or tourist settlements of five stars because their natural environment is such, some unfortunately have one star. This is what Mr. Lesar was talking about earlier. What do you think the interest of capital is going to go to a gold coke like that? The story of Istria, but not just the story of Istria and Lebanon and our beautiful Dalmatia. Will they find interest in it or not? It will. And now, without a detailed and no urban plan, where the bungalows are today, you know what this man will be able to do? First, it will be an initial building that will tomorrow make an internship and a plot, so it will become the property of some of those who will have such a privilege to live in the first row to the sea. And what I'm talking about, I'm talking about because I think we really need strategic investment. This law for those regions where there's no interest in capital I'd like to, but I'm afraid it'll be very difficult to be interested. However, those regions and those areas that are interesting for capital believe there will also be speculative capital, that there will be dirty technologies. But let us think positively but stick to the democratic principle. I would never let myself come to any colleague, to any colleague, to say, I think in your house, in that apartment, in your backyard, I'm setting you up, and I'm telling you what's better for you. Well, I think they'd kick me over this terrace outside if you'd let yourself comment like that. Therefore, we from IDS propose a variant that we will and are willing to support this Law on condition that it is truly minimal and that 30 days will mean nothing by supplementing Article 27. Ask municipal, ask city council. Don't tell these people they're stupid because that's what you're sending a message to your citizens that they're also stupid because they chose these people. Let's not underestimate intellectual capacity... People. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yet they know best what they need in that space. And in 30 days, we won't stop investment at all. In 30 days, we won't. Because see if it's worth putting on the scale of 30 days or 20 million euros of irreparable damage that no one will ever be able to make up for forever. Here, I think we have an obligation to keep our most valuable resources, that we need self-esteem, that we need pride. And let's do it and I will make you Deputy Minister, here I will be so free to say, humbly please both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because I hold that with the addition of that article and you and we want to remove any form of doubt from ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53897	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we've got a dozen replicas again, so let's get in line. The first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53898	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sponza, I understand the well-meaningness of your amendment that you have referred to this law, but do not allow the position of the parliamentary representative of the ruling majority to dull the edge of your second duty as mayor of Rovinj. Namely, by proposing an amendment like this, you're actually telling the government to ask us, but don't listen to us. You say you need the agreement of the municipal or city council within 30 days and what if the government does not adopt this proposal that it is necessary for that area to create an urban planning. This is not prescribed for you, but that you wrote it either because you later said that this law is simply intertwined with the Law on Spatial Planning and that it is true. And we, in the meantime, have received a proposal for a law on spatial regulation for which the urban planning will be passed by the Government and you know it well, and I think you even participated in the debate when we passed the Law on Spatial Planning. Therefore, this law, which is here today in the second reading, is not in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, because this law, which is first-reading, makes a solution that will neither ask you nor ask for an opinion on the adoption of urban planning, but will be passed by the Croatian Government. I guess you're aware of that. So I think that when it comes to the creation of an urban planning for the purpose of implementing this project, it is necessary that the city council, or the municipal council, bring this plan, rather than anyone else, on his behalf, and that is why the local self-government unit should not be asked to the central government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53899	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53900	Here I thank my esteemed colleague, Bačić, who, however, gave me the opportunity to further explain, because in me, it was a mistake not to clarify in a clearer way the amendment in terms of the context of seeking the consent of the municipal or city council, which we have written in the amendment, which we have delivered to the municipal or city council, has the right to say whether it is for, as well as the right to say whether it is against a particular project that I hold crucial. Because if we don't respect the decision of the representative body then definitely we, then we are returning this civilization to some other systems that I hold that this law creates a win-win combination of vertical co-relations and mutual respect between the executive state, regional and local levels of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53901	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53902	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Sponza, you said in your opening part that this law offers transparency. ... Transparency, clarity. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, if the provision of Article 16(2) and paragraph 3 primarily offers transparency, then I do not know what non-transparency is because if the state decides to sell something without a public tender or at least a public gathering, it clearly indicates that it is non-transparency. However, it is very interesting that in all these strong replicas and discussions here... no one has touched Article 18 on behalf of the club which says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the relevant central authority responsible for the judiciary, determines the need for an emergency procedure in a certain administrative or judicial procedure. You know what that means? It's that pure anti-constitutional provision. Who gave the right to order the judiciary to have an emergency? But I waited, I didn't want to replicate the minister just to see how carefully we read this famous transparent law and I'm glad that you as mayor touched Article 27. And we can read it any way we want, he definitely does, in case this commission decides it's a strategic investment, and that it needs to be located in a particular area completely disabling the local self-government unit. And you can do whatever you want, that way you'll just put yourself in there. However, when we talked about the Law on Spatial Planning, when we said that before the law on adequate compensation for the use of space, then perhaps many industries in some parts of the country could be placed on behalf of the fair compensation and compensation of the population, however, no one wants to think about it, but simply because it wants to give space to someone who would serve in an area other than the opinion of the citizens and representative bodies of the unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53903	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53904	Here I will repeat as soon as possible in my presentation that it is a responsibility and obligation not only for the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also for all of us Assembly representatives to create clear and applicable and sustainable rules, rules that define transparency of the process, rules that prevent any investment that takes away the potential of future generations, rules that preserve the most valuable resources, rules that support investments that create new added value and rules that guarantee stable and secure conditions in the real sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53905	New replica and respected representative Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53906	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sponza, you asked in your discussion that it was the support of cities and municipalities. I think cities and municipalities and counties will protect themselves in article di..., so we have four board members who are changing, means variable board members. Because it happens, we can tell stories, but I'm just a small event from my county, that in 2011, the County Assembly is asking for a change of spatial plan because it came by mistake in cheating 10,000 square feet. We reacted then and sent it to the Ministry of Appeal, the SDP Councilman's Club, and it's been 11 years, no response. We send again 13.12.2011. the appeal and we get the 16.2. reply that the County Assembly has unlawfully made such a decision to amend such plans. It means that only local self-government and regional self-government can abuse the situation, and I look at it now just before the debate begins I get information that in the small municipality of Peljesac, Orebic, a beautiful part we now have pressures on local government and the county is changing its spatial plan. Not to change, to add another tourist zone to the bay of Cesminica. Because the plans are coming. Unfortunately, there are among us here that we included. That's why we changed one minister for that kind of thing, and it wouldn't be if the MPs were doing that job. You bought 2007 at a cheap price, and now we will sell in 2012 and 2013, 2014 at... Appreciate it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53907	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53908	Dear colleague, do we agree? I don't know. My conclusion is that development generators and locomotive development in the Republic of Croatia are cities and municipalities. I don't know if we're going to agree with the bottleneck and the growth and development brakes is the state level of governance. If we could just let the oxygen out a little, we could take off the administrative measures. Look, I went with the proposal to touch Mr. Shucker that within 30 days the municipal or city council has an obligation to manifest itself. Let's imagine now that it's going from a local level to a state level and that this same state level has an obligation to manifest itself within 30 days to make it. You know how much investment would happen? So that you yourself may be surprised if you answer within 30 days. Again, a classic replacement of thesis but very incorrect. The mayor or the commissioner may be a member of the commission, he is actually a member of the commission. Among other members of the committee, look at which nice spin. I drag you in, and then I tell you that you're part of it because that project is about to happen. And on the other hand, something that is absolutely unacceptable from my point of view as a political standard. On the other hand, local sheriffs have always been told from there. And as the local sheriff says now, don't ask me, ask the representative body, municipal or city. Think about what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53909	We will. We'll think about it. Stjepan Milinkovic, a respected representative and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Sponza, of course, needs to support the rules that will ensure the future for generations to come. Of course, we should also support the rules that will preserve our most valuable resources, as you said. But I was particularly impressed by that part of you where you emphasized the importance of local self-government. And there certainly isn't a single chief who doesn't want investments in his environment, new jobs. But of course not where the package would be alive or similar. Because we really need to express our concerns about suspicious investments, and in that part, that commission they're talking about, that commission that's going to have so many members, and now there's gonna be one chief in it. Well, I'm just asking you how that vote ends. And now he's going to be very important right now and he's just going to stay, and mostly in the circumstances when we hear the information every day half of the community is going to be, half of it won't be, so this, and so on. It certainly wouldn't do any good, but it would also make it harder for those people to do so, and the vote would show its own. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53911	Thank you very much. I didn't see the tile, but we'll let Yeah, okay. [[I'm sorry, I am.]] No, but good. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53912	Then I thank you. Thank you. Excuse me and thank you. I don't see this law as October law. My discussion or intensity, now the question of whether or not I was clear enough was a good intention that would have a stimulating effect on these benches. You know why? We do not know after the next parliamentary elections who will be ruling and who will be the opposition. And what if, and it's possible to change the roles of whether or not we're going to gravitate on this law then, are we going to say that this side imposes some damage and consequences on us? Let's think long-term so let's keep it October, but let's create sustainable, clear and applicable rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53913	And for a long time please give us today! New Replicated Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of Sponza's in the role that you're in and as mayor, I fully understand your debate and generally agree with most of it and that's true. In fact, the policy of distance from people does not have a good future, and we are definitely exposed to increasing centralisation, distance from the citizens of Croatia and marginalisation of local self-government. There's not one thing about your exposure that's clear enough for me. You said something like offering the real sector clearer terms of business or investment. And then, in fact, on your own example of Rovinj, you gave evidence that investments can be invested and that investments can be made and that local self-government is no problem in these concrete investments for example of three investments in the town of Rovinj. It is clear that it is much easier to find investments in the regions of Croatia that are in themselves tempting, much more difficult in other areas where it is not so. I know it's not easy to find investors in my Križevci. But then we come up with a problem that, as it is now, wants to solve strategic investment, which is the problem of state administration, state-owned companies. So now that we're doing projects for the EU in my Water and Weapon Križevci, which should be financed from structural funds, we're waiting for 4.5 months for the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture so that we can cross over a piece of state land, a channel or something with a building permit. That's the problem. And you're right when you said that local self-government has certain cases but the general problem is in state bodies. That's why these deadlines need to be shortened in all investments, not just in some.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53915	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53916	Thank you very much. My dear colleague Sponza, I think that in your debate, you have actually spoken a key sentence regarding our reflections on this law, which should prevent investment that takes away potential. That's the key line. Because maybe by some law, I'm not going to talk about, I'm going to say in principle we can attract some investments but if we destroy the potential so what's for the future it'll never be able to come back. So that potential you're talking about is then irretrievably taken away from all of us and our children. It's forests and water, and I'd say, dare say, of course, the sea, the landscape, it's the same potential. Something that Croatia is plentiful and invaluable. And I agree with you, then in that context is really an investment of 20m euros, here it's about kunas but the euro and the euro is also a written investment. And I absolutely agree with that. In principle, I support your proposal regarding this amendment to ask the representative bodies of the local community, but I think it should be complemented by another provision, and that is that if the representative body therefore the city council refuses to give consent to a particular investment, then it must become binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which ultimately decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53917	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53918	Here I like your style and way of communication in general because I hold that Croatian citizens are really sick of each other's low political passions already our duty and obligations and I refer to this last thing you said to each and every one of us to make their contribution from their point of view to improve, to supplement a certain legal framework. And that's why I absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53919	New replica and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53920	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Sponza, you said right at the beginning that none of us are against this law at all, but we are against this. You also said that he gives the government great powers, and he completely ignores the opinion of the local community, so I will also tell you on the principle of what you have proposed this amendment he will be as good as my predecessors have said if this central body and the government really listens to the local community and listens to the representative body and really disables some investment. I'll tell you about the city of Sisak. These days again, there's been a ruckus about taking care of things, but now municipal waste, and that's the municipal waste burner. At this point in Article 2 of the proposed law, a strategic project may, inter alia, be a private investment project in the field of environmental protection and municipal economy. At this point in the hardware store, there's a private company that's already collecting and processing a piece of waste, not a municipal but a piece of waste. The private investor can now demand and create a project for the municipal waste burning plant. It is at the moment when some municipal dumps in large cities such as Zagreb and others came into question, when banned municipal dumps are very acceptable. This private investor can make such a project, he can ask for the opinion of this expert commission, when this law is adopted to launch the project and very quickly reach the combustion plant. And that the citizens of Sisko can't say anything about it at all. Because it could be a strategic project under this law. So my predecessors said, regardless of the opinion of the local community or the mayor who is part of this expert commission, according to the proposal, the burner can be made. I think we should disable such things, perhaps by supplementing this article of this amendment that you have proposed because the mayor of Sisak said on 16th or 17th October, while that mayor will never be a municipal waste burner in the territory of the city of Sisak. And it's not even in the spatial plan. However, it seems that no one under this law must obey it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53921	Time has passed long-respected colleagues. Thank you very much. No response to the replica, we saved at least one minute. Eighth replica and respected representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53922	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Sponza, I have to admit, too argumentably and convincingly, about why and how this law should still be installed, so I'm going to be speaking from the perspective of the city in which he is mayor, but I have to take into account that there are over 500 municipalities and cities in Croatia and that from these replicas, we've heard from fellow Marelić there are both opposite and different examples, and that often investments for no particular reason stand for 5 and a half 10 years, and that we have no solutions for that. What is important, and I think, once again, to say that the basis of this law cannot make any investment the commission will not make a decision on any strategic investment project if it is opposed to the spatial plan, so that is impossible. Similarly, unless the spatial plan is envisaged, no strategic investment project which is contrary to the DPU or UPU adopted by the local self-government unit cannot be adopted. Only one strategic investment project can be adopted which, based on a valid spatial plan, can replace the DPU or UPU that the units of local self-government did not bring, so she had a chance and still has a chance and always every council can bring the DPU or UPU to which she wants to specify... in some space. The shift compared to the first reading that within the commission there stood representatives now explicitly writes therefore both the mayor and the mayor or the people they empower. It is therefore a matter of directly elected people in the... elections and on this side and those in the commission can participate. So we have to make decisions, ten, fifteen years, some things stand out that don't make decisions. I simply can't imagine the commission making a decision without the mayor or mayor being against that decision. If this happens very hard to imagine, count on the responsibility of the Croatian Government on all the transparency on which it stands we can hardly...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53923	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53924	A respected colleague instead of answering your mind. If I'm not mistaken, the first Law on Spatial Planning was passed in 1973, I'm going into the former, social and state order. Based on it, there were obligations I think were then called implementation plans, which are urban or detailed plans today. Today in 2013 through all these decades we say listen to the stupid waist that you thought was the best way to protect space, space, the spatial plan general creates frames, detailed details. The spacious says, it can be 7 floors, but the detailed says given the environment will be 2 or 3, it will be the number of residents not 150 but will be 50, we will be taking care of the infrastructure, which is the system of purifiers, sewers, road, energy, etc. Try to think about why people throughout this thought that detailed plans were needed. Well, I guess they weren't stupid for no reason. And let the municipal and city council decide whether something suits him or doesn't suit him, whether it raises his value or reduces his value.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53925	New replica and respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53926	Dear fellow Sponza, I can really say that I sign everything you said, but I can sign everything you think and you didn't say about this law because the two of us in the roles that we're in are really thinking the same thing. With your amendment, you said one thing to that local self-government that at least in some way you can see that they are respected. One document I've read, 23 years I've been in some local politics and 10 years in the executive office, and I haven't read a sentence like this that speaks of units of local self-government and is closely connected to this law. So she says "but this instrument is due to indifference, insubordination of the local self-government, disagreement or misrepresentation of the address, do not fulfill their role". Therefore, a spatial plan of state level will be introduced where the state will directly determine the purpose of the area in Rovinj, Bakr, Zagreb, wherever it remembers, perhaps at the top of Risnjak if someone comes as a strategic investor. And you and I know that this law did not define what strategic investment it is in the Republic of Croatia, but allows me not to know who has 150 million kunas to remember that they will do what object somewhere on Platko, Risnjak, somewhere in Slavonia or on an island and the state will pass you, past us and support what you said. This is just a Band-Aid and throwing guilt at you and me because we're gonna be some kind of member of some commission that's gonna make a decision, and we're down among the citizens we know how to live down there as it goes down. And if there are investments in the Republic of Croatia at this point, then these are investments run by cities and municipalities and still pay 25% for each investment in the state budget because they are not free of VAT or for road construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53927	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53928	I'm just going to comment on what you quoted from the law and why we're going with a proposal to supplement article 27 at one picturesque level, let's not punish those good and excellent for bad examples of bad students.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53929	We've exhausted a list of replicas and responses to the replica. We're going to a club debate. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53930	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. There is no dilemma that Croatia needs new investments and that Croatia needs new jobs, but as we can see there are no jobs. The more we are here after we have become a full member of the EU, the more they are gone and everyone is right to ask why there are no new investments and new jobs. So let's start in order somewhere there in early 2012, after the current government began to manage the country immediately, an emergency law on dividend tax was passed which was therefore not only introduced immediately without some serious announcements but also retroactively. In this way, when we look at the wider region, Croatia has become tax-free. Entrepreneurs, to remind them, have filed a constitutional suit, are being sued by the Minister of Finance and are now angry and yelling at them, at those hateful privates, that they are not investing, they are not opening new jobs, that they are guilty because there is no economic growth. Now, however, only a small depression fascinates, that severity attacks entrepreneurs and those privates in view of the same intensity that insists on privatizing everything and selling... State property and state-owned enterprises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, on the one hand, against entrepreneurs and the private sector, on the other hand, to privatise all businesses in Croatia and state property. What happens tomorrow when these private, private, companies who have taken over decide not to hire again, decide not to invest or decide to close jobs or shut down companies? Then who's going to be guilty? Keep going. In public enterprises as well as in that administration as a whole in the past 2 years, in particular in 2012, all administrations, all levels, have been mixed up. So from the top of the board, large public companies, regardless of the results of these companies and these administrations, to the middle level of governance. So even if they are members of the former ruling coalition, or the Croatian Democratic Community or not. So, regardless of the results. And now everyone wonders why public companies don't invest, why nothing happens in Croatia. And you've actually destroyed something that, so people, you've removed people who've been doing their job for years, some of them, of course, have been working on, exactly, public investment by public companies. The consequence of that, among other things, when you look at the balance sheets of these public companies today, is that they accumulate, dominantly pile up losses in case there is no rain in particular, I mean on Croatia's electricity economy. And in that, and in those conditions, so with the accumulation of losses now we're going to sell out that state property. Furthermore, we have witnessed all Croatian Prime Minister to us 15 minutes of time for the main boss of Gazprom who comes to his Croatian capital on... The Minister of Transport scheduled a meeting a few weeks ago and an agreed meeting to be attended by a German investor with the highest delegation with Ambassador German headed 15 minutes before the meeting cancels the meeting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all great messages and support to the investment climate anyway. Keep going. Two years in a row, the current government plans economic growth 1.8%. The result of both last and this year is the economic downturn. The consequence among other things, the consequence and that today is our credit reitting trash and unfortunately trash with negative... Under these conditions, the Croatian government also announces a re-upliftment of the tax burden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So not only do we already have today's second highest VAT rate in Europe, but after all of this again in 2013 we hear that there is no end, that one of the final measures is to raise the tax burden again. Imagine a country where someone is expected to invest in a sector that is currently perhaps the best and most lively and that is tourism where one tax rate changes three times in the same year. What kind of message is that to the private sector and potential new investors whether it's domestic or foreign investors? Now, we are witnessing, and even today, we are witnessing the fact that the key coalition partner for the maintenance of most of the government in parliament is in fact increasingly and increasingly radically not me agreeing almost once with the announced measure for the economic recovery of the current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53931	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you at least a few questions about the matter we're discussing. At least something I'm asking you nicely. [[So here's another 10 minutes. We'll come to the law.]] At least something.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53932	So we'll come to the law, last time on behalf of HDZ, the HDZ Club talked about the law, so none of it happened, but we'll come to that. So finally, I can't be allowed to settle, which is if you haven't checked the days or yesterday we crossed 340 thousand unemployed. A month and a few days ago, the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia was 315 thousand. This means that there are almost a thousand people on the stock market every day after the season is over. In view of the measures taken, first of all the Ministry of Finance towards medium, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, there will be no dilemma in tens of thousands of growth in the coming months. During that time, it is logical that the labour minister leads within the party campaign and wants to take over the largest party organisation of the SDP in the Republic of Croatia, failed. I wonder why that is. And within that campaign, within that campaign, the dead-cold says that it is against privatising parts of Zagreb holding and for a referendum actually in Zagreb in general when it comes to Zagreb holding. Wait, the same minister is sitting in the government that announced the sale of absolutely all public companies as I recall. And it's against the referendum on highway monetization. Now, all this in any case contributes significantly to Croatia's credibility, especially to the investment credibility we're talking about today. Because it is reportedly the Law on Strategic Investments in the function of new Investments and as an incentive and tool to especially large investments in Croatia and to happen. However, this government forgets that there is only one way to really attract investment and boost economic growth, which is structural reforms. Unfortunately, since structural reforms in these two years, real structural reforms have nothing to do with it. Unless by structural reform you call it that in health care... as it is said to be Croatian popularly to separate it from the public sector into private cleaners and cooks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think you'll agree that it's not structural reform anyway. But so let's go back to the investments and the law that I really talked about a lot last time, but all I said last time on behalf of the party as well as my colleagues was that it was thrown out to look for BON 1 and BON 2 and to confirm the impunity of this law, so like in one comment that was actually least important of all that was said last time, so I'm not going to repeat it here, but I'm going to say the following. Yes, I still stand at the point that the really strategic investment laws have no place to look for certain..., I said this last time, so serious investor BON 1 and BON 2 and that the issue of criminal records or who represents investors I think the Croatian State has enough services to sooner, no matter how or where, to come to the list of strategic investors that these services have the opportunities and resources to check each of the investors that is put on the list of strategic investors. Otherwise, as far as the law itself is concerned, allow me a few more sentences, so we've heard it many times today, and I'm thinking the same thing, so after that first reading, I think this law today would be a more appropriate rule on the work of the government's investment committee. However, it is not so bad, since the state is reportedly ahead of bankruptcy, then anything is likely to help at least employ 100 people. I don't see any reason, that's what many colleagues were talking about today, not just on the right side of the assembly, to show so much confidence in local self-government units. So it's hard today, given that many local self-government units have a problem paying salaries already, so some of the local administration and self-government leaders would be against a serious investor and there's no doubt at all that we should, as someone said, be in favour, and not against in the sense that those who do their job should not be punished in some way. You should punish those who do bad things. Keep going. I do not know what the mistrust or overtrust in public companies is, since, for example, in Article 7 says that a public undertaking should not attach evidence of the financial capacity and the secured sources of financing of the project, but... this should. So probably with the same logic that there is an increasing difference between private and public sector and public enterprises, so that's probably an explanation why we're doing something like that in this case. Go on. In fact, the question needs to be asked, given that this law also covers strategic investment by public companies. What are these projects that have actually started over the past two years? Unfortunately, I have to say, and not because I had the honour of being a member of the Government in 2011, that today there is not a single new project in 2013, whether public or private in the Republic of Croatia is more significant, and especially in the money spoken of in this law over 150 million kuna, unfortunately there is none. However, there was talk today about Plomin, so I'm not going to talk about Plomin, but I'm going to mention the low-level railway, so the current government is, as far as I know, off the agenda, probably because we have ways of spending a lot of European money, we certainly have thousands of projects, and then it won't need a new low-level track, but it'll reconstruct the old one. Six months after the decision, the government of the Primorje-Gorski County in the assembly decided to introduce a new route of the lowline line. It doesn't make any sense. So for two years we repeat, two years we repeat and warn, there is only one way to boost economic growth, how to boost new investments, and that is public administration reform at all levels. Systemically removing obstacles to all investors, both medium and small and large and craftsmen, everyone, systematically, but this does not happen. It is likely that in Croatia, it is likely to show weakness, political weakness if a good project is taken from the former HDZ government. One of these was, for example, an action plan to remove barriers to investors. I'll remind you of Heathrez. These are all the projects that have just done what needs to be done, regardless of the size of the investor and whatever amount of money he has. Unfortunately, I am stressing at this point in Croatia that big strategic investors who are interested in investing some serious money can be listed on the fingers of one hand. And finally, let's talk about investments after all. So, everyone in this assembly, I think we agree that Croatia should, as I said, have new investments and that we want both domestic and foreign private sectors and the public sector, but in this case, instead of the tax repression that has been carried out for two years and the new tax burden is constantly announced, new taxes. Instead, tax discharge should take place, instead of insult, assault and charges at the expense of the private sector and the creation of an anti-enterprise climate. Today, when we are in the European Union, this is especially true, given that Croatian entrepreneurs leave Croatia today, they are opening new jobs, Croatian entrepreneurs outside. You think that foreign embassies do not report such movements to their private sector, or their economies. Well, of course I do. So instead of this attack on the private sector, we need sincere support to this same private sector and finally instead of selling out state property, and that really is why we need structural reforms, we don't have time here, and that's not the point to talk about it today either. And finally to conclude, just two more sentences, so whoever is on which side of the assembly, the current government has not taken over and won the elections by having a mandate to do what it does today, and doing the following: increasing the tax burden, reducing the standard of Croatian citizens, destroying their purchasing power, and at the same time absolutely doing nothing to support the economy and the results are what they are, the new thousand unemployed every day, GDP falls the second year in a row, the credit rating is..., the government budget deficit is growing and higher. And something that at the end of the day has nothing to do with this debate today, but it does. It is regrettable that over the past 3, 4, 5, 6 months, no longer in any electronic media, even the shut-offs, was a space for confrontations and debates of authorities and oppositions, argumentated, civilized. I personally had the opportunity to participate in some in 2011 or even 12. In 2013, give me one show in the past 3 months in which serious topics such as these today have had the opportunity to face members of the government and members of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53933	You want to uphold the law? Okay. Let's go to 15 replicas. Honorable representative Igor Radjenovic and the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53934	Thank you, Mr. President. If we hadn't heard whether HDZ would support the law, very little Mr. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, as president of the HDZ club, was talking about the law itself. He started off with the dividend tax this government has introduced. Mr Milosevic's dividend tax has almost all EU countries. Right? That's right. And that's where we differ. We said nice when we brought taxes. The dividend tax is nothing more than a income tax on the capital of the company's owners. If the same company owners are burdened with income tax for their workers with 32.33% why not, why and the employer on their incomes, i.e. The owner of the company would not pay the same tax on his income. All countries, almost all EU countries, have the same tax. But you forgot to say another thing when we talk about profit tax, that this government has abolished profit tax on reinvested profits. So the money that was earned and returned to the company, which was returned to the economy, is not paid a profit tax. As an employer and some of your colleagues, I suggest that you invest the profits you make right now, reinvest and you will not pay taxes in this way. The state gave up a billion kuna in that field. As for your other thesis, you said that this government has swept all the administrations, all the administrations of public companies. Right? Were you kidding or were you serious? ... And you're always serious, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, the good part of these administrations is Mr. Milosevic has been convicted today for economic crime. There's a good part of these administrations waiting in the process, I don't have time in two minutes to count. The good part is waiting in the process to be condemned, and the good part is shaking at home when and how it will be. Even if we wanted to, if we were so crazy that some quality personnel of that time went back to the heads of public enterprises they were officially prevented from taking over their duties, they would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53935	Reply to the replica, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53936	Dear fellow Radjenovic, I find you very dear to me and I find it hard to believe that you believe first of all when we talk about this law, but now it doesn't matter. I entered Croatian politics three years ago from a private so-called private sector and entrepreneurship, and I have to tell you that my whole life I've been focused on results. Croatian citizens in 2013 are only interested in the results, facts. I have hardly ever criticized in this assembly even at the expense of this government without arguments. All I've said today is arguments. So the results are catastrophic and this is a problem for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy. Because if you were right today, you'd be flowering investment. Then why would they be discussing this law? If obviously the result is what this government has done in 2 years, then why this law of the day? Well, that doesn't make any sense. Unfortunately, the results are devastating. So members of the same party of the current government do not talk to members of the government. The Minister of Media Entrepreneurship finds out what his other colleague is announcing. Well, what do you think? So what does anyone think about how this country is managed in a crisis that deepens from day to day?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53937	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53938	A colleague of Milosevic, most of the laws that allow extraordinary treatment to attract investment such as the Law on Forests, the Law on Waters, the Law on Roads, the Law on the Sea Good, so that for the sake of encouraging investments, some extraordinary moves have been made by the HDZ Government, or the HDZ parliamentary majority. You had a HITRO project.HR, you had a HITROREZ, you had a proposal for a law on spatial planning to encourage investment, but you failed. With all these measures you have declared you have failed to boost investments in the Republic of Croatia. You're talking about a prerequisite for investment in public administration reform. It's your syntagma. So why didn't you take public administration reform? You're saying that GDP falls 2 years in a row. It's interesting to forget, you forget that GDP falls five years in a row. Finally, the issue of changing the administration of public enterprises and, of course, the ministries when the government is changed. That question is more or less pointless. Every authority if it wants to do something is often invited to change administrations so that it can do what it did. But the fact that you started it becomes particularly pointless if it is known that these administrations that you're talking about have been mixed up have brought these companies into great debt, into great troubles with great losses. And now a new government, any one, so this current government, and that concerns all future governments, should retain those administrations. That's absolutely not logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53939	Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53940	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Radosh, I understand your political need to defend the current coalition, but you are absolutely wrong. The facts deny you. On the balance sheet of public enterprises in 2011, 12th and 13th, data is available on the Internet, so everyone with an interest, Croatian citizens can access that data. Unfortunately, you're wrong, unfortunately for this country. I was talking about middle-level management. I was talking about directors who had been vacated and violently after eight years better or worse, but a public administration was being built. It's easy to tear down, and it's hard to build, unfortunately, with us. And as for the results, so look, you forgot, so 2011. Croatia had 2 quarters of economic growth. I'll remind you 06 and 0.8%. It's also technical in every way you get out of the recession. We warned in this House in early 2012, so with tangible economic recovery, don't raise taxes, don't do that. The government, the former government abolished 6, or 12 months earlier. "crisis" tax. This government has taken over the country, today it is unfortunately or fortunately the only stabilising factor for the Croatian economy, which is the fact that we are a full member of the EU. And it's not enough to attract investment. You mentioned HITROREZ, so that the HITROREZ and the action plan to remove barriers to investors need to be a craftsman with 100 thousand kunas and an entrepreneur with a million-and-a-half kuna and one with 150 million kuna I don't know from Madagascar can invest in Croatia and hire people within appropriate deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53941	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53942	Thank you, Mr. President. You forgot that after 5 years Croatia has strengthened its competitiveness on the world market and this is our national forum for competitiveness and the world forum has made it clear without this law. You're saying that you can name serious investors on your fingers, you underestimate a little bit, it's clear to me to the government because you're in opposition, but you underestimate private investors, which really surprise me. So, investment projects from the portfolio of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, it only works for a year. Thus, 11 projects worth nearly 400m euros were implemented, with 4 billion and 886m euros in projects reported to the Investment and Competitiveness Agency being stuck due to the production of UPU, DPU and paper issue. Therefore, investors in Croatia exist and existed during your government but you did not recognize it in the way that she recognized this authority and that she recognized that it was necessary to amend the law and assume additional responsibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement projects that exist on paper and with a name and name. And not to mention projects that entrepreneurs did not report to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness but are trying to continue to solve and implement on their own. And you said she had a two-quarter growth in 2011. Croatia. But you also take a little bit of statistics and read that this growth is not based on investment and growth in production and new added value, but only in the conversion of equity loans and stakes into core capital. In translation it's legal, legitimate, but it's actually not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53943	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53944	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll start at the end. So there is no dilemma that in the next year as you started to grow especially foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia will be the only consequence, if I listened to you politely to my colleague Gjurkovic, it would be polite for you to hear the answer. I think it would be polite, and one of the fundamental problems of this country is the culture of dialogue or the non-dialogue that if you've replicated it, at least you can hear my answer to your replica. But if I may, and I still have enough time, so as far as the competition list is concerned, I don't want to offend anyone. Look at all the countries from which parts of the world are far ahead of us on the competitiveness list. I appreciate, it is not bad, it is good that on the competitiveness lists Croatia is climbing precisely because of this international message, although unfortunately no one in Croatia can feel it or benefit from it. No citizens, no entrepreneurs. But that's why you managed to put a credit rating in the trash, and the last six months with a negative look. That's great. The interest will surely fall and fall to Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs already. We will be the only country to enter the EU whose interest has not fallen but has grown. Only because of the wrong economic policy of this government that you are supporting, and you do not trust 90% of what this government is proposing as economic measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53945	New replica and respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Milosevic, in your presentation, you have been complicating the views of this government towards entrepreneurs, so you have commented on the statements of one of the ministers who is angry at non-investor entrepreneurs, and on the other hand you have asked the question of how we are taking over and how we are now concerned through this law for entrepreneurs. There are entrepreneurs in this country who have come to very interesting companies at a time that we popularly call the privatisation era. They have often achieved this under very favourable conditions, and in a number of cases they have come to very interesting companies that are well placed on the market and which routinely make a very large profit and the fact is that these companies do not break down at all today to invest in what they profit from. On the other hand, this law does not talk about these companies but talks about those start-up entrepreneurs who have yet to pass the path from realisation to the end of the project and to positioning the market. That's why the law is necessary. And as for your comments on the management of public companies, I would ask you one question in this replica. Are you in HDZ really proud of the quality of the management of the Croatian public road company, where the tunnel piling affair has become ever green but is slowly falling into the shadow of some new ones that are slowly zeroing out of grass. Are you really proud of how you run public enterprises all these years? It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53947	Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53948	Thank you. So take it now I'm telling you again take the balances and the receipts and the losses of all the public enterprises over the past few years and look at the results. There's no need for me to defend someone here right now, some single public enterprise. The numbers tell you everything, absolutely everything about how you manage. And I'm not going in here because it's not my part of the job to talk about judicial processes or to comment on them here when they're powerful. As for conversion and privatisation, the Croatian state has absolutely all the tools. As far as I know, these crimes or criminal proceedings don't go out of date. If I can remember '45, unfortunately, and I'm not happy to go back to the past, we've changed one system, we've been to communism, so many of us are how to be different to the market economy today than if there was a conversion and privatisation in '91. If you're alluding to me freely, I'm a company that existed before World War II took over 2000 and I'm proud of everything that happened from 2000 to 2010 after I went into politics, so really. I don't know why you think any of the Croatian citizens today who have fewer and less every day and every week will be impressed with the topics that you open when you have no arguments, topics from the past. It doesn't impress anyone at all anymore. So today we live, we expect every government to do better for the Croatian citizens and for all of us every day, unfortunately the results are denying you. And we can now be outsmart and argue here, but at the end of the day, the results are essential. Statistics are still reportedly not under state control, look at all the posts, look at all the analyses and you will be clear where we lead the results or where we are due to these results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53949	Dear colleagues and colleagues, 11 replicas we have yet to report keep the amount of adrenaline after the break. I'll see you at 3:00. Josip Boris, Boro Grubišić, Branko Hrg, Branko Bačić, Đuro Popijač, Tomislav Klaric, Damir Kajin, Stjepan Milinković, Ivan Šuker, Nadica Jelaš and Ivana Krivec Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53950	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. We continue with the replicas that were directed to the presentation of fellow Milosevic. Josip Boric. He's gone. Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53951	Thank you very much. Mr Milosevic, you said a lot in your speech but very little about this final bill on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia. So you were talking about this government, but that's exactly what you were saying, so you increased the tax that she didn't promise in Plan 21, that she destroyed the standard of citizens that she didn't promise in Plan 21, that she achieved credit rating junk that she didn't promise in Plan 21, that it led to the budget of a difficult deficit that both EUROSTAT and the European Union were talking about, which is true, and the same thing was not promised, that interest on loans was increased, so all that is. So this government is actually burdening citizens with taxes, increased prices and everything else to take action to transfer what you left with your management to the burden of citizens. And what you left behind better not to talk about because that's what the media and the newspaper and the gentleman... from the Washington Times who claimed that it was billions of dollars removed and dissident money at the time of government, I'm not saying that you personally did it, but at the time of the ruling of the party you belong to. Therefore, both of them were burdened by public companies from which they were withdrawing money, which is your party, and they therefore transferred Kukurik coalitions to the burden of citizens. And now we have this law that you've been talking about and it's actually discriminatory, which is true, but it's actually a law that, after a brief procedure, solves some things in investment. It's a very common case here that emergency laws are very short procedures. The other day there was also a law that was not even processed by the working bodies of the assembly in connection with the cooperation of protected persons. He didn't even get past the boards. So it's really a very painful situation and the citizens are looking at it, and the citizens of this country are looking at it, and they're really sick of both defenses and attacks on each other. There's been a lot of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53952	Time. Thank you. We have an answer. Please welcome fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as the law itself is concerned, I have talked as much about the law as there is some investment in the Republic of Croatia, so little. And as for this second part of yours, so you are not a colleague of Grubisic's right, namely the facts speak as follows. In 2011, and this was left to the current government, the technical exit from recession... opens economic growth. The drop in tax burden, because 6 and 12 months earlier, respectively, I remind you of the crisis tax. Employment grew, i.e. unemployment fell beyond the tourist season and investments were especially foreign. Everything after that happened the other way around. So today I mentioned here, we're talking 340 thousand unemployed today. Imagine if we had a real state of things and statistics so let's say we can calculate how many young people have left Croatia in the past year and a half because they would probably be on the labour market today or in some gray or black zone. So they went, whether they will return to God knows, probably only if Croatian politics and that HDZ of course creates conditions in the future to have a place to go because this way that we're going to go is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53954	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Milosevic, the state administration if it is not established as a system cannot function normally. We have established this system for many years, perhaps with some bad solutions, but this system has been established so today, when it comes to investment in Croatia, the public administration as you called it in your presentation there exists among other Investments and Competitiveness Agency, then there is a Business and Investment Monitoring Centre in the Energy Sector, then there is a Public Private Partnership Agency. There are 22 county development agencies, there are a number of investment agencies set up by local self-government units and all these agencies and all these state bodies were created under some law aimed at promoting and investing in the Republic of Croatia. Now we are going to form two ad hoc bodies with one new law, one that is made up of ministers and another operating body that makes up representatives of these same ministries, units of local and regional self-government. The question arises, if these two committees will, among them, and this task force, which is made up of representatives of the ministry, will lead to investments on what, then, the bodies that I mentioned earlier and the Investment Agency... for a public private partnership, which is why the Energy Sector Monitoring and Business Centre, etc., etc. It seems to me that the government has lost a little bit in these regulations and in that system, and without a good system, there is no functioning of the state administration, and when the government doesn't function, when the public administration doesn't work, then the investment falls and everything that's going on today falls, as you said in your introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53956	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53957	Thank you, colleague Bacic, of course I agree with everything you've said. In fact, I remind you in 2011 we were just in groups working at the highest level to make investments and that people who came both domestics and foreigners invested to do so. However, what is really crucial and what I was saying today, and that is the Croatian citizens at the end of the day are only interested in the results. Statistics don't live at the end of the day. And the results are inexorable, 100 kunas today are worth significantly less and this can be calculated 5, 6, 7% less than it was 2011. Salaries are on average lower, employees are higher. There is hardly a family in Croatia today who has not lost a job in the wider circle in the past few years. I'm not saying that 2011 was flowering roses and that there were 100,000 unemployed. I never said that. I'm just constantly talking about trends. Trends that were then positive and were to be continued regardless of the shift of power. Croatian citizens have the right to vote and therefore it is completely irrelevant and no longer impresses anyone when at the end of 2013 the left side of the assembly here or outside the parliament is talking about the former decisions of five years ago. So where does that interest you today? I don't go into any judicial process at all, people are interested in the results of whether we are able to make this state go forward and that Croats live better and have more. And that their assets that aren't small are not spoken of anymore. So if the government's credit rating trash with a negative appearance is whether the state property currently subject to sale is worth more today or a year ago. Is yours, mine and all of us here the property of Croatian citizens is now worth more or less than two years ago. It's worth less, which means we're all getting poorer together, and that's certainly not a policy function and a government that needs to run the country in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53958	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53959	In his speech in the part in which he spoke about the law, the esteemed colleague mentioned a lengthy procedure for adoption. So here this law is trying to speed it up in a way that eliminates the public, eliminates units of local self-government, eliminates spatial plans and, by unilateral decision of some commission, the government can take down forest land. That's what we've been talking about. But I do not see here what is prescribed in the law to shorten this long-term procedure in the development of spatial urban plans, in order to allow units of local self-government to gain faster consent, HEP, Croatian waters do not know which state institutions. I don't see what this law says that I don't know the Ministry of Agriculture would take off some kind of business zone of land, agricultural land and give it to the purpose of economic construction or within urban plans. So here in this law we're not reading anything except in that part, most of what this kind of task force should be doing, how it should work, what it's supposed to look like, some kind of a list of strategic projects. And we don't know exactly what all the projects are about, because this government, this ministry, we haven't got a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia until today, to know exactly what, where and how we're going to do it. I'm not talking in that section that applies to the protected area of the PDO. Mr Sponza also said something in his performance that I am not talking about having finished terrains in the Republic of Croatia, that we already have prepared entrepreneurial economic zones in which investments can come tomorrow. You listened as carefully to the minister as I did. He said he had a strong interest in investors, but that nothing could be made possible, so let him guide them to Slavonia, some municipality, a city that has a ready-made business zone with infrastructure or with us down in the coast or somewhere in Istria we have The space intended to develop the economy, and I don't see why the procedure should be this long. [[/Intruder Batinić: Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53960	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53961	Well, dear colleague, I and more of us today in the Assembly said in fact that this law actually resembles one Regulation on the work of the Government Investments Committee. We have also been told by many that it is not good to put our trust in the local administration, and we agree that those who do bad work must not be punished. Are there both? Well, of course we do. We all know that. But it's not good, and it's not just about this law in general that they punish the good actually because otherwise it can't make the bad guys do their job and that I assure you by serious public administration reform at all levels can be done. Today there is no one normal any political option that is against investment and new jobs. It's just a question of whether someone understands and wants to be a pro in some way entrepreneurial and whether they want to meet within the law or not. Here, we all have this plan together regardless of which political party we now have what, a lot to do and to make progress on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53962	Thank you. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53963	Mr. Vidosevic is a little baby to my parents in Istria. But I'm not answering for this, but be careful. Where we'll agree. These few surviving economic operators should be supported, they should be held as little water on their palms. And they're not private, they're not a problem. If they did, then the state sector would be booming, but they don't bloom. In fact, he's in a worse position than this private one. But what am I saying? We need to reform the system, we need to reform the state administration, we need to reform the deformed local self-government, public enterprises. Local self-government spends 40% of its own income on wages. County of its own income, which only says that the system is expendable 100%. On the other hand, only local self-government in the County is controlled by 5,000 people. 50% of them have nothing to do. But why am I answering? The media, the HRT, and that's what you're talking about, I'm saying it controls the right hand. Advisers work probatively on Croatian radio television. Who draws money from Croatian highways or Croatian Chamber of Commerce? PR agencies. Who's tearing Milanovic down today? Among other PR agencies. On the day that Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic told the PR agencies, on that day in Istria, all with certain PR agencies conclude four-year contracts. For 30 kunas, the facility will close, for 3,000 kunas, it will skin you, and in 30 million kunas, people will get the order of Danica, the order of this or that, or maybe after a while you'll end up in jail. Therefore, it is necessary to review everything from chamber contributions to how local and state administration works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53964	Thank you. The answer of fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53965	Yes, dear Mr. Cain, we agree, I hope, however, that everyone in this assembly that the next 10, 50 and more thousand new jobs can probably open in Croatia only the private sector. Since foreign entrepreneurs also have to invest or start a company when they come to Croatia, then they are actually domestic entrepreneurs in the case of tax and employment. Now, however, what we weren't talking about today, and you kind of mentioned it between the lines, which is that we should allow everyone reasonable to start after 5 years of crisis first to keep what they still have. So the first thing to do is to focus efforts, huge efforts, this government unfortunately is making efforts, and the result is that it keeps the jobs that exist. My favorite are the examples of Dioki and Gredelj. Why are those my favorite examples? For a few reasons. So both companies actually represent the entire industrial sectors in Croatia. They employ directly and indirectly thousands of people. Medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen lost probably millions of kunas individually and also new jobs again. And what's most important is the industry that has the product to export and it's exported and it's capable of performing. If U.S. taxpayers' money was saving jobs in the car industry that are supposed to be booming today, what are we? What are we playing? Why are there funds for economic cooperation? To invest in banks or to invest in the taxpayers' money industry and save jobs? Unsaved to save other people's capital, which seems to be a pre-profit settlement where once again small entrepreneurs and craftsmen lost millions of kunas and tens of millions of kunas and again thousands of jobs are gone. Because 100 thousand kunas when he loses a small entrepreneur or craftsman he can shut down his job and fire two, three people who hire. So every reasonable policy was required to preserve jobs in industry such as Dioki and Gredelj, not to mention, I forgot to say I still have 5 seconds to say that you have a part of the education system of this country that educates people so at the Faculty of Chemistry or at engineering for these industries, for these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53966	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Milosevic, therefore, listening to this debate and these replicas today, and seeing what was founded because of investments in the Republic of Croatia in the past two years turns out to be not such a bad situation in Croatia at all. And then when you look at macroeconomic indicators, no matter what the head of statistics has changed which some things can put together now or in Croatia is a catastrophic state. And now will this law change something overnight for the better? He won't. Why? So because even under the existing laws of the thirty largest cities, large cities in the Republic of Croatia are taking the issue of building permits in their services. Now I'd like to see which smart mayor wouldn't accept an investment of 10, 15, 20 million euros? I don't think there's one, but he'll be welcomed with open arms. But there are certain investments that I say have environmental problems, and when we tell people in Croatia that they will get some kind of fair compensation because their real estate is losing value because of such an investment and in general that I know their lives are threatened and these people will start to think differently. Finally, look here and around the Zagreb waste dump at the moment when the Yakuševec municipal infrastructure was solved, when people began to receive some fair fees quite differently discussed the dump. So I think we're dealing with some peripheral problems. We are declarative of this or of what policy options we are from but it was best seen when my colleague Sponza debated because he simply can't go against what he's doing. And so nothing with this or similar law is going to be resolved until we realize that the state system has to work for what it is and that these agencies that are founded simply need to be removed, eliminated because they are simply doing a total nightmare in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53968	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53969	So we finally have to start dealing with the core, and we have to start dealing with the causes of the problem, not the consequences of the problem. But to supplement you, so someone today said in one of the replicas to my presentations, which is that in 2011, foreign investments grew because foreign investors were capitalising in their businesses that they had in Croatia. Well, trust me, and it's better than what happens next year, which is the growth of investments, foreign investments just because government property is being sold out, why? And I've talked about it more than once, and no one reasonable is against every privatization. Indeed, in 2013, the state is not the place to own a hotel complex or a hotel company as one extreme, or some industrial enterprise now 15%. But to sell strategically important companies, some are also of financial nature at this point which can be a support for economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, I don't think it can be called the growth of investments, which will be shown statistically for the next year, two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53970	Thank you. Next line, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53971	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I must tell you, my colleague Milosevic, that since you've been in the opposition, you've become an on-call disaster in this assembly. So, indeed, your discussions are a series of bad numbers and a series of bad negative observations and even more catastrophic announcements. I remember in one of the previous discussions, so you were offered to the current government to invite you to give her some advice, so you should refer to some moves that should be taken to make things better. Here I tell you thank you very much for your help, so your knowledge and your entrepreneurial successes should have been used at the time when you were minister. So, you've had a really great opportunity. The truth is you've become an entrepreneur by model key in hand. So it's not hard to be a successful entrepreneur when you get everything served, when you get one successful inheritance. The question is how successful would you be if you started from scratch as a large majority of Croatian entrepreneurs. But let's get back to your debate. So you said in the debate that this law shows no confidence in the units of local self-government. No, there's no mistrust. Therefore, representatives of local self-government units will be members of the task force to prepare and implement strategic projects. But what will certainly not be under this law is that units of local self-government or local sheriffs will not be able to obstruct the implementation of projects that are of strategic importance to the Croatian state. So the state can't be that of narrow local narrow local interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53972	Thank you, too. The answer of fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53973	Dear colleagues, I've been trying here for two years to be really not personal. But since you are very personal I will tell you a little bit you better read my resume, so you would read that since 1989, the entrepreneur was still a former state, that my family in 1947 was taken away from the factory in the city of Zagreb and today was not returned in the meantime to bankruptcy and that in '91 it did not say in a CV while I was studying medicine driving afork in my own company, but it does not interest you because you never thought that you would dare be an entrepreneur anywhere, so let alone in Croatia. And as far as construction is concerned, it's really hard to be with your discussions like this, it's really hard. And the reality unfortunately doesn't deny you. We'd all love to, and for two years here we're warning not only I'm saying that I'm saying something and sharing advice, so we're warning you in advance what's going to happen when you make a move. Don't raise taxes will collapse economic growth, that's what happened. Don't demote entrepreneurs and foreign investors in taxes, it's obviously happening. Well, I mean, look at the statistical results, I don't have to talk about it anymore. Thank God for the Internet so that Croatian citizens can go to EUROSTAT and the National Statistics Institute and check the actual results and figures. I'm a disaster, so we told you last year, don't do it like that. You're gonna have 50,000 newly unemployed people. That's what happened for 18 months. Look at the last month, do you think it doesn't have that in the spirit of world unemployment or does it have to do with your government's fiscal and economic policy? So take it seriously, I'm asking you nicely, we're not here in a personal capacity, we're here as citizens not only looking at us but expecting something too high and smart to say. I'm the last one to be a disaster, but we're constantly warning everyone here that you're not doing what you're doing. You haven't answered me today from the left is it normal for ministers from the same party in this coalition government not to talk. If that's normal if this is how the state is run, don't be angry and the ministers find out from the newspapers what their colleagues from the same party and the government are doing, then I have no words.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53974	Thank you. Next replica of Ivana Krivec Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53975	Thank you. Dear colleague, it has been quite a while since your debate, but I would just like to remind you, through these discussions, the story is that the last two years have not been the case for investments in the Republic of Croatia that would trigger the economy and which would be the initiator of new jobs and an increase in economic income. Now look, I'll just remember the situation that you remembered in your debate and said that it was written to you in 2011 it was an honor to be a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You were then the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for Economy and Investment, if I remember correctly, and then as head of the local self-government unit, I wrote you a letter almost every month and asked you to receive foreign investors who had all the preconditions to implement a large investment worth more than EUR 20 million. Unfortunately, no answer has been received once that you will be admitted to your office as much as you have received one bug response and they and I both say that is not a question that you or your office should deal with. You see, if we had had such a strategic investment law since 2011, then these investors would not be opening their investment to a neighbouring country of ours, but would have just opened up jobs in the Republic of Croatia. If we had inherited such investors from your government, surely today would have been a better economic situation in Croatia. And they would not depend on whether they will be accepted by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy, because indeed this law that we are now trying to pass and pave the way for economic investment in the period ahead would be a very clear procedure. It would depend, not on the units of local self-government or the central state, but on the preconditions we create together.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53976	Thank you. The answer of fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53977	First of all, I'm really sorry if you have that experience but you're still superficial. A man would expect MPs in the Republic of Croatia to be a little less superficial. I don't have a need here to justify myself to you but I am that and it has been an honor for me to be Vice-President of the Government of Investments for 2011. It's been about 11 months now that it's already twice as much as the current government manages this country. And that I had an office of three people so much for what we were doing. And ask some questions among Croatian entrepreneurs, among foreign investors, foreign ambassadors whether it could have come to me, which was not me, but also my three colleagues and advisers worked in 2011 but also all the other ministers because I told you now just before I told my colleague Bačić and I many who are sitting here today, some unfortunately did not come to meetings with large, medium and small investors domestic and foreign in the government across the street to discuss problems from Pliva, from... in Slavonski Brod, IKEA and I don't know which projects. Unfortunately, I am truly sorry today in 2013 there is not a single serious new project that did not happen in 2011 that is verifiable to you. In December 2011, the government received an actual handover and part of it was a list of all investment projects of all domestic and foreign investors who had ever made contact with at least my office regarding some of my reports. You've got it today, so take a look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53978	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53979	We've been discussing this law for a long time in the second reading, and there are a lot of people who have been reported, so I'm going to try to sum up my debate as much as possible, and we've been discussing it in public for a long time. We've been discussing this for over a year. There were a lot of top issues in the public before the law came into government procedure. I think we've all concluded in today's debate and otherwise investment is absolutely necessary in this country. And we've concluded that our system in these investments and it doesn't work very well that we're one way too crazy, that some of them, that some of the regulations are in a particular conflict, that the problem of relationships, that everyone's speaking from their own corner, which is from the state administration, which is from local self-government. But I think it's theunison law that if it's already such a situation that we want to invest, then we have to decide whether to pass this law or not. And we decided to say, a year ago, the government decided to go into this procedure, there are a lot of positive reasons why this law should be passed. It always stands if he wouldn't show up, I believe that on this side, on this side of our assembly either and why don't you pass some law in that direction. Because I think we all know together and we could now get two or three projects out of our heads, two or three investments that are either pushed on one side, realised too quickly without any public interest or on the other side that have been standing for two, three, five years for unknown reasons, or for reasons that we can only guess and that the damage to their realization still exists and exist. We've had a huge drop in investment over the years. We have one increase in these first six months but he's not enough and I wouldn't go any further on those numbers. It's clear, I think we'll all agree that it's insufficient for them to be foreign, which our own, we're all aware that without healthy investment there is no increase in GDP. It was primarily designed only for public institutions. Meanwhile, I think the legislator has made a good decision to transfer it to private investment. Why is the law necessary? Well, we need it for the competition. There's a lot, there's a crisis all around us. There's a lot of interest in investment. The countries are fighting over what and how, how to attract foreign investors, how to make the country itself more attractive, how to fix the business climate, competition and around us and our neighbouring countries, even though they are not only neighbouring countries of competition but also much wider, they are passing their laws. This government has also passed a lot of laws in this direction, and we have passed the Investment Encouragement Act as well as other laws. Let me just list these from the financial spheres that kind of improve the financial climate. So so is the income tax law that I say is reduced to... lower than average salaries, the tax has been reduced and labour-intense activities are on this side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was particularly interesting to us became more interesting to investors. I was talking about the profit tax, the invested profit this government decided to cut to zero. So all those who want to invest, who want to create new values as long as they do not pay taxes in this country. ... Repeat mandatory insurance, health insurance, a reduction of 13.4% of two percentage points, and actually 13.4% of all of this relieves the labour price and thus, I say, especially for labour intensive activities, improves the position for investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the aim of this law and what are the fact that the Strategic Project Act is actually designed to speed up procedures, so that they do not stop, slow down, and that investment projects are predictable in their time scale. Significantly, once we adopt the law, it will shorten and speed up the process of coming up with the overall documentation necessary to achieve these projects. They are defined in one part in more detail, the second part will prescribe, by way of regulation, all procedures and ways of achieving investment projects, the course of project preparation, implementation, and putting investment into operation. So for the first time, we have clearly defined these processes, clearly certain carriers of these processes and time limits. The transparent decision was actually if there was a stronger objection then it was an objection in that direction. So it is crucial and it is in the light of this Law if you have looked at it and it is important that this message go to the Croatian public that no other Croatian law is delegated to this Law. So there are 16 laws that are listed here. Mr. Bacic here's looking for a replica and he's talking about it. Everywhere, Mr. Bačić, you have exactly what article of the law is prescribed by some other body, whether it's the Government, whether it's the Croatian forest, whether it's someone else's authority under this law to carry them out. The only difference is that on local self-government. And this famous decision on urban planning and detailed arrangements. One more time. And this law will not allow any strategic investment to be adopted unless it is in line with spatial plans. That's what I trust everyone clearly. There can also be no investment that is contrary to the DPUs and the UPUs. So, if some municipalities and cities have come up with detailed planning arrangements and urban planning arrangements for certain... In that case, the investment cannot go against them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can only go where these detailed planning arrangements and urban planning arrangements have not been adopted. There were objections in the first part that local self-government was not involved enough. I think that the Proposer with the amendments to the Law in this part has respected most of the objections on that side. And I think now we have a situation that is actually, which we can optimally estimate as the best solution at this point. So we have representatives, we have the prescribed representatives, unlike the first proposal, with government representatives clearly prescribing 4 fixed plus 3 if I'm not mistaken, not 2, 2 who are changing, not 1 that is changing, sorry, and so we have 2 members who name mayor, mayor or mayor. People, they name people who are directly elected, talk about legitimacy here, etc., elected in direct elections recently held, and I think they have quite a lot of legitimacy to decide here in these situations. I said in one of the replicas, it's hard for me to imagine if indeed the mayor who sits in the commission made decisions and the mayor who sits in the commission and makes decisions of that committee together, i.e. proposes to the government to make a final decision on the strategic project, if they, let's assume the situation, would be against a solution so that the other members of the government would forcefully decide on a strategic investment. I don't think that's going to happen, if that happens, we'll discuss the situation. But what is a key message, all these decisions could and were made at the level of the municipal mayors, mayors, at the level of people in companies, and it was not as transparent as this law provides. This law clearly and loudly stipulates that the government of the Republic of Croatia will decide on a proposal from the commission in which I said the representatives of local self-government and regional and regional self-government and ministers in the government are sitting. Most transparently possible, under the lights of the reflector, under the light of the cameras. Therefore, I do not think that in this respect we can really say that this is not a transparent process. We can say on the other hand, okay, let's keep it as it is now, so we won't make decisions, and we know where the decision-making has led us in our recent history. There were a lot of examples, my colleagues spoke before me about a series of failed investments when no one was formally wrong, but investments didn't come, jobs weren't secured and all the consequences of what was going on with it. So I welcomed the change in that direction, and I welcome the change that the motioner of the Ministry of Economy has made about this, these are all clubs and parent committees lastly objected to me saying so about these, although today one of the clubs is not around these, Mr. Lesar was talking about impunity, etc., it was really absurd that foreign investors, project firms are looking for BON 1, BON 2 or a confirmation of impunity. Therefore, there is a good change in that direction. I commended this amendment, therefore, for defining the representatives of the local self-government. The SDP advocates' club, you got it on the bench, there are five more amendments but actually in the good part are nomotechnical, but they're basically about two things. One is, therefore, that in order to declare a strategic project, our amendment is one if you want to follow the proposal to delete paragraph 3 and that paragraph 5 can be adopted instead of bringing the word, so that it is more clearly prescribed. The legislator had the best possible intention, so between Articles 8, 9 and 11 if I am not wrong to define relationships there to be no confusion. I think we're proposing a better solution in this regard. Nothing is fundamentally changing, I believe it will be an understanding to be appreciated about it. And the next four amendments that actually apply, which are related to the proposed Construction Act that we know is in the first reading, we know that it should come into effect with New Year's, but to be found in our court a better no-technical solution about this law so as not to again after the New Year's, we assume that the Construction Act will not have to make any changes and additions to this law again. We believe that this solution guarantees that I say this law when we bring it in to be a pit and that we will not have to make amendments and additions to that law for the sake of changing other laws. Finally, the Strategic Projects Act should be seen as an instrument that will speed up the process of coming up with the overall documentation for the achievement of both public and private projects of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, we believe in the satisfaction and units of local self-government and all of us as a whole that finally these figures that fellow members of the opposition love that syntagmu, that everything that should not fall, that it should not fall to fall to start growing. Mr. Minister, in the introduction and in the first law presentation, said he would be happy that this law was not necessary. I was saying at the beginning why we still need to make a decision about it and figure out what's better or what's better to watch things happen on their own and tone or try to change something. We have concluded that this law is necessary, we have concluded in this practically one-year debate that is the best norm to prescribe this law and to live in practice. Therefore, the SDP Representatives' Club will support the law, and on the basis of what we have otherwise said, we believe that its duration, some have suggested that its duration should be prescribed, I believe and hope that the stage of development of Croatia's administration and competitiveness in general of Croatia's state will be such that this law will really not last too long, but I do not hold a good suggestion that we still prescribe a period of time under which it should function. Once again, the SDP advocates' club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53980	Thank you too, colleague. We have four replicas. The first one was Branko Bacic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I already said that earlier, and I will now repeat, so that the government passed this law in the first second month after taking responsibility for me it would be understandable and acceptable, but then I said in the follow-up that after the government of 17 laws that were prescribed by this law and which, in its explanation, remain in force, 14 of them have passed over the past 22 months, and now this law determines that they should be suspended in a certain part. That's what I'm telling you to point to ineffectiveness, inconsistency or co-ordination in the government. I'd say he doesn't know what his right hand is doing. The other thing is, why do you and the government insist on trying to convince us that this law does not energize any other law? You don't need that, do you? The new law, which comes at the end, has the right to derogate a certain provision of applicable laws. He's right. And why do you bother telling us that it doesn't happen when it happens, so I'm going to do three examples. The first example is the Law on the Sea Good. The Law on Maritime Goods states that the concession for over 50 years is given by the Government with the consent of the Parliament, according to the Law on the Sea Good. It is said here that concessions will be given on the maritime good for 99 years only the Government and the Parliament are gone. And I think you agree with me that 100 years is a pretty long time. Who knows what's happened in these rooms in the last 100 years, and what's going to happen in the next 100, nobody knows. So here we are. Then we're already bored here in this assembly when we're talking about urban planning. The law on spatial editing does not even consider the possibility of building something where it is signed... This law now puts it out of force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it's not a violation of the law, I don't know what it is, and I'm not saying what the law is up to in the first reading of the Law of Spatial Planning and Construction. What's he saying about that? Well, he's totally at odds with this, so on and so forth. I'm running out of time, so I don't have time to mention the Environmental and Nature Protection Act yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53982	We have an answer. Here you go, pal Rajenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And Mr. Bacic, why didn't you pass the law in the first month? Well, we brought it now, no. We brought it, and I guess it's a good thing we brought it. You know well that the law went that there have been certain objections, I say by both the professional public, the interested public and that there have been certain objections from the European Commission. So the need to pass this law was recognized immediately. In fact, the Croatian government recognized it, and we in the Parliament supported it in the ruling part. So the need was immediately recognized and the standards began to be developed. Now that we're passing the law in a hurry, he's saying why he's bringing it in quick. Now that we bring it in thoroughly, calmly with full public debates, with two public debates, with two readings, with the summer to think about it in the meantime and now it's no good. I don't know, I don't know what would please you and your colleagues. But I'm saying, the law is in front of us now. In the good part, even the proposals and the HDZ Club of Representatives are respected, in one or two things. And therefore this is the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, the law of all of us and of us here in the Parliament and of all our citizens. Give us something constructive to tell us what else is wrong and what needs to be fixed in this law, not saying you should have brought it in eight months ago. Then I can tell you, you should have brought it in eight years ago why you didn't bring it in. As far as these individual laws are concerned, none of the laws I say are suspended. It's quite thoroughly spoken in an explanation. No law could be contrary to any other law. Only some of the powers that certain bodies have, as a rule, the Government of the Republic of Croatia but through a much longer process in the most transparent way possible, I say through the commission, through the participants of local self-government, suggest to the Government again that in public sessions, I stress certain decisions to the public and, in the end, to bear political responsibility for making those decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53984	Thank you. Replica Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53985	Dear fellow Radjenovic, here's what you said and the minister, so I couldn't believe my ears, so I went to see if he really said it, and the Dnevnik quoted it as saying it. The minister literally said, you have now reiterated that this law does not derivate units of local self-government, that units of local self-government and that these projects are exclusively done on the spatial plans of units of local self-government. That's what you said. Then I may have some other law, so I apologize in advance because it says here in Article 27 literally and I have given it an amendment which I consider to have been accepted because the minister thus told me to issue the permits set out in Article 26(1) of this Law do not apply the provisions of the regulation in the administrative field of spatial regulation relating to the obligation to make urban details etc. plans. The minister said something else entirely. You are now speaking and confirming what the minister said. Maybe I have some wrong text of the final bill. And the proposal is what your colleague said, and it's often mentioned here. That expression by the local sheriffs, I hope you don't mean Mr. Sponzo or I don't know who. Because these are people who, by name and last name, stood before their citizens, who won the election. According to that logic, someone who doesn't have a name and last name could say that the state sheriff is like the prime minister. So in this part and this law, it's literally like that. This law moves the authority of local self-government units in its area. Some of the 126 km2, some of the 50 km2 or the city of Rijeka, like 60 km2. In that part that is not covered by a spatial plan, it just allows for what you can read in the New List today because this law is in this way already applied to the construction of a gas station where someone decided to give a building permit past the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53986	We have a colleague Radjenović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53987	Thank you. And, Mr. Clairy, we can only repeat our arguments again, you of your own. So, in no way can strategic projects be contrary to spatial plans. That's what we're done with. Second sentence. In no way can they be contrary to the agreed UPs, urban planning arrangements and DPUs with detailed arrangements. Right? I can't be. Now why haven't the local self-government units come up with those plans? There are various reasons. There may be other reasons, but you know very well that there are a lot of plans that were made 15, 20 years ago, so for various political reasons and who knows what these plans have not been made. Therefore, all units of local self-government have been called upon to bring their urban planning and the DPUs themselves, and no one derogates that right. This law foresees only the possibility unless it has been adopted, and the spatial plan provides for a certain activity and further details about it are not provided if indeed units of local self-government for various reasons, as I said, do not bring it to the state in some way to speed up the process. But I say again with the commission, with the representative of the mayor or mayor and the municipality directly elected in the elections with the representative of the higher body, several units, the organisation of the regional body. So, with a representative of the county and I say all the most transparent things on Thursday at 10 a.m. when the government begins and these points will come to the agenda, I hope in front of the Croatian public. I really don't see a better model to solve that stalemate. We all know, I also said in my debate at least three examples, but we are better directed, so we know a dozen examples where unfortunately investment stands and should not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53988	Thank you, too. Next replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53989	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned, among other things, that it was good for the government to accept some suggestions given in the debate on this law in the first reading relating to eradicating Article 8, related to eradicating the article which made it impossible for those who were convicted of serious violations of the law, so the crimes related to both receiving and giving bribes and economic crime, to corruption that, according to this new bill, they could be investors because you said that it would be that foreign investors would be asked whether they were punished or not. Namely, the first finding we will agree on is not a law for foreign investors, this is not a law for foreign investment. This is a law that seeks to boost investment potential, i.e. investment momentum in the Republic of Croatia. But that is also so, that this law that only needs to be regulated by foreign investment remains, of course, what is called the life of everyday and which is why erasing Article 8. is not acceptable. So we are talking today about one person among others for whom the Croatian judiciary has also issued an international warrant, a person suspected of giving bribes in one difficult process, for which one other person in Croatia is sentenced by a first-degree verdict in this very serious crime. Thus, that fact itself clearly states that in a law like this that opens up many sides to us and that it falls into the Constitutional Court because of certain provisions, we leave no doubt that desires and intentions are good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53990	Thank you. Answer, colleague Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, you're right that this law is not only for foreign investors, but it's also for foreign investors. I remember the debate here by the present Mrs. Dalić, who spoke with considerable cynicism about how the directors of General Motors, did well remember or General Electrica, asked for certificates of impunity or BON 1, BON 2 of these companies etc. So that's about foreign investment. He would have if that article had remained a difficult circumstance to bring in what we wanted, which is to attract investment. As far as domestic investors are concerned, let's call them that, and you well know you were the Prime Minister, so the investors aren't usually physical, right? Investors are usually companies, legal persons we don't even need to know who they are, what they are, how they own it. Therefore, they are often project firms that come back to the competition. So I think that this is a better solution. Of course, the commission of four ministers, of course, will make sure that the committee in which the mayor and the mayor sits is careful that a controversial person or I don't know how it is said does not stand behind a project. But you simply cannot say by law listen to all controversial entrepreneurs cannot report for a strategic project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Just that legal standard, and you're among other lawyers, and as far as I know, a good lawyer, here's a coffee downstairs so tell me which legal standard we can insert so that some of us call it a controversial entrepreneur doesn't answer this law. I don't know that legal form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53992	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53993	You are constantly talking about a committee that will be chaired by either the mayor or the mayor, i.e. the mayor. And do you know how many members the commission actually has? They're in the minority. The two of them are in the minority. You keep saying there's a local community right to participate, so that there is, but when there's a vote they stay in the minority. That's one thing. Secondly, what are the investments you're saying have stopped or been rejected for local action as you say to the sheriff? I wonder who it is of the locals, by you, the sheriff refused an investment that would enter his municipality, city or county? That's different. And thirdly, I know, and I will tell you later because we don't have much time, that here in the Republic of Croatia at the time more Mr. Cacic came and announced the Russian delegation and others who wanted and wanted to invest and in the southern flow through Croatia and everywhere and many others and from the oil business and from the rest were rejected. And it was very embarrassingly rejected. And let's not talk about the delegations that have travelled to Qatar and the Azerbaijani and the Turks and the Dioki and Indonesia, etc. We know all that, and investment stands. And in the end, you cannot categorically claim to us that the laws relating to maritime goods will not be violated, in connection with the Law on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and Nature, when this commission comes into force by voting this law. Here's just one small example, I have so much time left, if this government comes a strategic investor and says he's going to build on an island that's mostly a state-owned country that sells an island to that gentleman doesn't matter by domestic or foreign means. If it's going to sell the Croatian island, that's what I'm asking. If he invests 150, 200 million euros. Or, like Hong Kong, they're going to give a concession for 99 years like the Chinese gave the Hong Kong English to 99, an interesting 99-year-old figure just like after the Burish not Bursk, but a boxing uprising in China, so Hong Kong was given for 99 years and then returned. We're an interesting country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53994	Thank you. An apology from fellow Milosevic, please welcome fellow Milosevic's replica. ... And the answer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. Well, I don't know what you're going to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53995	I do. Well, I'll try to improvise something, thank you, Vice President. Well, I think it's, uh, seeing that you guys were listening to me, fellow Grubisic. I think you were contradictory yourself in your replica. I've been listening to you concentrately. First you say let's list the examples... and then somewhere around the first minute, you begin to list for yourself what investors have come from the Russians, the Chinese but the state has rejected them, well. But now the state and set up a commission so that and this law are some bodies of state, Croatian forest with itself, so Minister with itself etc. Now the board heads up with the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of the economy and investment. In this it is also the charm of this that in the most transparent way possible and with people who are invited to make decisions, which have the legitimacy of making decisions, means that they have their original mandate from us here, actually from the people and then from us a special mandate here through mayors through mayors to make those decisions. You mentioned yourself here to use this minute to tell the local sheriffs, maybe we're using that term just as little domestication... in the local language. The sheriffs, I don't remember, but I watched those movies and I read Carl May they were something positive in the cities, they were putting order into the mess that was happening back then in the Wild West. To get back to the point, so making decisions is the key to making decisions. If we're about something if HDZ's government is about anything, it would be a lot more examples, if she was wrong about anything, then it's in that decision-making process. The government has the courage to make decisions, has the legitimacy for this, and has called for this decision-making and legitimately elected mayor and mayor. I'll repeat myself again I can hardly imagine we'll all see ourselves here will take another two years to get a mandate maybe we all stay one more, I can hardly imagine the situation that the commission, the government decides one and the local community will be against it and the municipalities and the county etc. When we see it, but I say in any case, the government will also expose itself to the political risk of eventually making the wrong decision but will make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53996	And an apology from fellow Milosevic, please choose a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Actually, thanks goes to Madam Vice President Zgrebec that I have a word. Dear counterpart Radjenovic, so probably if something should be above the particular political interests it should be jobs and investments and not only private investors but also public businesses. If they are kept professionally and managed, then their investments should be above the particular interests, however, we lack dialogue. We could see that 10 minutes ago, when there's no arguments then it's going on a personal level. So the prerequisite for a serious and constructive dialogue is that we don't come down here to a personal level and not get personal, but talk about the essence. And when we talk about the essence of this law, we first made a series of proposals here in the assembly and me and my colleagues, unfortunately the only thing I know about the remark that's been adopted is that it's really out of the law, so why don't we regulate it to be constructive by some sublegal act about criminal record or anything else. And you're a good answer I'd say the same thing and the proposal of that criminal record is that I think today hide anything in some way that's not a problem because legal people invest that I don't get into that whole story. But I want to say a few more things in these less than a minute. The HDZ over the past year in half a day on several occasions will remind you of the Investment Encouragement Act gave its support. Unfortunately, I have to say because of the implementation of the Act on Pre-Agreement and we supported it, I am sorry to say, because it went clearly in the wrong direction of this whole story and this whole implementation. And finally, in order for us to become an investment competitive or interesting country that you've been talking about dominantly is not enough to have one law. No law that is best on the globe can solve that. Croatia must be tax-competitive and I am not only talking about profit or dividend tax now but I am talking about a stable tax framework. Therefore, domestic and foreign entrepreneurs must know that the next 5 to 10 years will not change certain tax rates. Imagine when in the most important current sector unfortunately the only one growing and that is the tourism sector therefore unfortunately the only one growing it you have three times the VAT rate change within the same year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53998	Thank you. Here you go, pal Rajenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u53999	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm glad your colleague Milosevic said you agree mostly with me and I'm glad you're calling for a dialogue and that there is, usually a dialogue that is getting closer to the dark or that the cameras are less on and that's good for this assembly. They're good here I'll repeat again are good and our dialogues or the broader conversations we have on the board of the economy I run where often your colleagues make constructive proposals, and it's good to hear constructive proposals. In this case here were heard 1.2 concrete proposals and they were embedded about it we agreed. Since we talk a lot, it would be good for you as an entrepreneur to listen to my proposal to get your reinvested profit because you are a successful entrepreneur, so when you achieve a certain gain at the end of the year to reinvest it. Then the truth God will make it difficult for the state budget to function a little bit, but the goal of this government was that just successful entrepreneurs like you and other successful entrepreneurs gain to invest in new technologies to invest in new jobs and that on that side of the long-term benefit has this government. As far as a little harder words on this side and on the other side, let's hear them out. This is still a political stage. We all have to be prepared together for a little harder words, so eventually after our colleagues, we'll apologize. You don't look exactly like me, and as far as I know you so softly, I can hurt you a little bit in the heat of a struggle, maybe a verb more. If any of my words or any of my colleagues hurt you here I'm here and Prior if I have to apologize for anything I might say someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54000	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54001	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The final but final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investments and Projects of the Republic of Croatia is before us. I'm afraid we have infinitely many problems, so I won't be this final, it will certainly change because what it feels like is that in local units of local and regional administrations, but what investors feel, and what you feel from the ministries, too, and the government of the Republic of Croatia needs always changes, it is necessary to build up the system, it is necessary to adapt the system to invest. Here we are from the HDSSB not sitting on the left or right, sitting there in the middle, but in any case we felt good about the government left and right, but what matters is Slavonia and Baranja has always stayed in that same old place. But when it comes to investment, I want to say that in the ten years I've run the county and the city of Osijek, I haven't even had an example of seeing the local administration's neighboring units that they haven't done anything for a single investor, it's big or small, and it's known that there are no large ones without small ones. But also without the big ones, there's no small ones. Here I am sorry that Minister Vrdoljak is not here because for two years he was our mayor and in that time we had one big investment. Let's just say we had more investment. One good part was realized, Mrs. Kosor laughed, she was Prime Minister at the time, Mr. Milosevic was a man for investment, some of us were realized, done. But I remember the good example of the Bioethanol factory, the 100m-euro investment we prepared, and I must be specific and honest that Mr Milosevic immediately came forward as soon as we and the investors did the first part. And I have to admit that we were quick to get ready, and we had problems with... the belt and the preparation for licences, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That part went pretty fast. And here's what I'm trying to say is that when it comes to this investment and also some of the others we've worked with this government. I have to admit, we haven't had any problems with the government, with the government. And I'm going to list later problems where we have problems and where we're going to have safe problems even after the law is passed because I don't doubt that you haven't prepared enough hands to really make that happen. But I think a little while ago you were talking about BON 1, BON 2 to shut down. Well, I'm sure when you have a serious investor you've been saying a lot lately that BMW wants to invest in this part of Europe, so I'm sure when someone comes to you from BMW you'll be looking for BON 1, BON 2 and a confirmation of impunity and you'll say that in the Strategic Investments Act. Well, I have to admit, that would be pretty unserious. But I want to encourage you to think in the ministry that you still need a guarantee. A guarantee or a company or a guarantee of a bank. Why am I saying that? I'm going back to a bioethanol factory that hasn't been realized so far. But why? So the documentation was prepared, they got the permits, and then they lacked one part of 100 million euros to close down the investment, and even that part of us with domestic banks or foreign-owned banks, which the domestic part closed and then the situation of the European Commission reducing the regulation of fuel consumption in the European Union's structure and fuel consumption. And the Americans give it up temporarily until that regulation probably changes. So we've proven ourselves competitive, we've shown that when it comes to transportation, corn, this, that, the waterway and all the other parameters, spotlessly... in the case of the adoption and implementation of licences and even the closure of financial structures of that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here is the problem for the European Commission to adopt a new regulation. So that's where we have the surprises. Looking at your wish list but also the possibility of someone investing in the Republic of Croatia we must first of all be competitive. What makes us competitive compared to our environment? Well, first of all, when I read the bill always in the proposals I'm used to seeing now, there are some financial resources needed to enforce the law. So looking at Serbia, let's say, why did Fiat invest in Serbia, so probably because Serbia was going with an investment of 300m euros from that billion euros. And probably because they co-financed every new job with 10,000 euros. And probably because they gave some other privileges. But since I don't see in this proposal any financial amount that the Resorving Ministry will support such an investment, then I'm afraid it won't be any of it. And why am I saying that? Just before, the other day we had a budget, so we see exactly two ministries, Mr. Maras and the Vrdoljak almost spent nothing this year. That's what I'm worried about too, either it's a sign that there's no investment or that it's not working. So I'm expecting that answer. But also looking at the last 20 years who invested and what in the Republic of Croatia among those 27 billion euros, the most are, i.e. 30% invested in financial intermediation, so that banks can control our market. 10% at the store. But also after 2008 we had 4 billion and 200 million euros in financing at the premises of the Republic of Croatia, so direct foreign investment and that was a good year. But it was also a good year in the European Union and the macroeconomic environment and the global environment was such that it was favourable for investment. Now what's changed these few years. Well, the environment. And the queens of a country like Germany stimulate that the Germans stay in Germany and invest in their country and not in other people's countries. So that's how we can stimulate and attract these very investors. But also looking at the last two years means we're recording about a billion euros... investments themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also when we look at the analysis of countries that are most invested, we see Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, Hungary, Luxembourg, France, Italy about which segments are invested. Where are we so competitive that we can really attract these investments? But I'm afraid in recent years, we've attracted a lot of speculative capital when it comes to land, when it comes to other things. And what concerns us is that we are particularly concerned about these articles that were recently discussed. We think that just part of the speculative capital will enter right through this part of those big investments. And that's where we're afraid, and that's why we'll be against this legal solution. What's the problem is, it's an AUDI irresponsibility from DUDI. So you have an example, an investor... One million euros, two or five or ten if AUDI writes a letter to the intention of buying something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, AUDIO doesn't have to be the one or the state not to call the competition. The investor's just asking to call a contest. So it can't happen that after a letter of intent, DUDI today doesn't call the competition. This is what is bad and does not contribute to the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, whether foreign investment or when it comes to domestic investors. Likewise, when it comes to European funds and individual stakes, it will be a problem for us to co-finance the projects themselves in that part of participation. What turned out to be bad was that I had an investor who wanted to finance the project through a public-private partnership. There's money, there's a project, but the law and procedures are such that you just can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do what you can't do, you can't implement it, and we've had a chance to see such investors and such projects, domestic investors. They could not implement the Law on Public-private Partnership Investment. So, the public-private partnership law is inconclusive and I can do that if you're interested in explaining it a little bit more in detail, and so does the minister. At first, it is always important to have a strategy before the law itself, but we in the Republic of Croatia at the moment looking at border activities, looking at where we are competitive, where our market niche are, where this sum is an analysis of what we want with this strategy. We're not going into the law first. It's the same when it comes to the Regional Development Act, which I'm sure would help. It doesn't matter if an investment of 20m euros is in Zagreb or whether it is in Lower Miholjc. I'm sure she means more to us. But with this law, looking at investment, for example, from 100 million kuna and 1,000 employees, it's not an important investment for you. It could be an investment that employs 1,000 people, with a small investment of 10m euros. I'll give you an example of the Bennetts that we managed to close the financial structure and help them and they realized the project in Osijek. Recently, part of the production was withdrawn from Bulgaria and implemented in the city of Osijek, because Bulgarians say they are not doing us well, they are not doing us good and they are stealing us. And we also have an example today in Djakova Gela, which goes to Serbia. So, the Dutchman financed the production. So these are questions where we're competitive today? What's the other thing, the investment climate, the tax laws. You do business plan or bussines plan with which you go to the bank, so you need to know what taxes are, but not from today to tomorrow. So what are they worried about? When they read in the paper the test balloons today will be VAT this big, tomorrow this big, tax this big. So more damage is done by that test balloon than it may benefit from, perhaps, this law, if it will bring benefits at all. So these are issues and there must be government determination and ministers must talk to each other, not that one speaks one way or the other. It also states in the law an urgent launch of an investment cycle. Well, it's always a big investment. Nothing that's done urgently ever really happens like that. That sounds alarming to me like that. I also have a question that you have failed to invest investors in the past 11 months since the law started in the process until today. But what I want to tell you by looking at neighborhoods, looking at the EU in normal countries, this law is not necessary at all. What is more important is how we encourage our exporters, how we encourage our domestic investors to invest in foreign markets. We also have these days of acquisitions of our investors on foreign markets. And how did we encourage them to participate in these foreign markets? We also need strategies, especially industrial policies, economic policies that would encourage individual branches where we know we are competitive. Also someone talked about agencies, too many agencies, needs to round them up. I know that some bring, that we had to establish some for the sake of the European directive. But you always have to watch if we pay more fines or if the agencies bring you more benefits. Maybe they don't need any. But with so many agencies and alleged economic diplomacy, we today have no investment in the Republic of Croatia. It is also an investment or investment that is accumulated in the present with a hope of winning the future. So everyone's going to invest where they see that his capital is going to fertilize because he's fast, sensitive, and he's never got enough. What I often felt was a problem. Local units of local administration won't make a problem in the paperwork. But they usually drive investors into economic zones, and they're freed from communal contributions. And you usually have investors looking for road, infrastructure, and even when they get to HEP, when HEP is looking for an active force or when you're making an economic zone, then the biggest investment is the HEP's trafo station in the economic zone. And here I need to review the policies and the HEP whether it's more important to buy cars now or invest in the economic zones of the trans-station. I'm thinking trafostations. For the economic potential that can bring new value. It also requires decentralisation for Croatia to make it easier for local administration units to provide funds, funds to finance this infrastructure. Often these days, consultants are mentioned for the sale of HEP, Croatie, etc. So we need consultants to bring in foreign investors because it turns out that our government, resolute ministries, agencies, etc. I can't do that. But we also don't need a consultant for the sale of Croatia or the Post Office Bank, but for that bad portfolio that would come back to life and that would engage in new investments being born right in those areas or in those investments. What I want to conclude is that these 30 articles we believe in the HDSSB that they will not solve the problem of the Republic of Croatia and the investment of either domestic or foreign ones. Article 5 is bad for the selection criteria because if the investor is going to hire 1,000 people, he is a real investor, a real investor. Which units of every local administration will break down to get it, and maybe it'll be a problem for some... Which DUDI won't solve for months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we need to get rid of. We also believe that Article 16 requires only tendering for land sales. And this article 16 is unacceptable to us and that is also one of the reasons why we will not support this Final Bill on Strategic Investments. We need to adapt to market needs, change our legal needs Proposals and regulations. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54002	Thank you. We have reports of replicas. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54003	Well, thank you, colleague Bubalo, for your kind words, it was there if I remember more projects well. I think we can be proud of that. And yes, yes, people are really important, people at all levels in public administration. But that's exactly what they're gonna catch 22, or they're gonna say the catch 22. I don't want to say doorknob 21. So, unlike the private sector where people are important, undertaken and less undertaking, such or such, organised or not. The state, the serious state itself in the 21st century cannot allow it to depend on individuals but must build a system. There must be no improvisation and there must be no arbitraryness at any level of public administration and it must be crystal clear what is the responsibility, jurisdiction and rights. This is the difference between the state, the key difference, one of the key differences between private sectors and public administration. And that's why we've been talking for the last year and two of us on this side, this assembly on public administration reform. I remember often in 2011 and often I used to say it then, now I will repeat it, so our public administration at all levels must understand that the answer is not a valid answer. It often happens from personal experience, maybe, maybe it's not the answer. Not to the investor and the entrepreneur is a valid answer but not after three years. Not within 15 days is a valid answer because a man has an answer and goes to another location. And also if there's some big investment going on so someone won't at local level or support it, so unfortunately we have a lot of space that's completely untapped. And one more thing, let's say one project that could have happened these past few years, doesn't matter now who's in power, so the IKEA that's building today is a sales centre, a large sales centre, although twice as small as it's supposed to be because of the decline in the purchasing power of Croatian citizens was supposed to build a factory. There is an entire group within the IKEA that deals exclusively with production. They were at my place. They wanted to build a 100m-euro factory in Lica. You know why that didn't happen? Because we couldn't give away the land. So now should we, should we slave, so whether we want to invest in the face of 100 million-euro production, probably all of us in this assembly would agree that we want to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, we have to deal with this, I repeat, I apologize in essence more than form. The form is important, but if it's not the essence in there, then there's no point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54004	Thank you. We have a colleague Bubalo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54005	Thank you very much, Mr. Milosevic. The private sector is looking for its interests, but the public sector must be its service. It is often a service but there are institutions that really do not respond, not just after 15, 30 days, but after a year do not respond. Now that's what's wrong, it needs to be changed especially in AUDI. And when it comes to investment, especially in war-devasted areas, areas of special state concern or interest which was only... and then such investments should be co-financed according to clear criteria or competitions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it comes to land sometimes to contribute to job development, such land as the Like question or some other space need to co-finance the investment itself. Because we often see in economic areas, the cost of land is 1 kuna, so investors do not decide for the Republic of Croatia. So it's not just the land price, it's the assembly and mosaic of all those regulations and tax breaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54006	Thank you. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54007	Thank you very much. My colleague Bubalo, what you were saying about tax stability and not permanent tax bites to say to Maric in his speeches by the Republic of Croatia or often changing the tax rate and therefore increasing the tax rate to say so is one of the basic reasons why there is actually no investment. Here you have listed Gelly from Djakov as an example that he went to invest in another country, a neighbouring country next to us for production in another country. There is a company in Slavonski Brod that is 20m euros with the German partner half, so 10m euros each invested in Serbia to be specific, whether Grosuplje or Prokuplje, I can't say exactly, it's kind of similar to drying fruit. And the dryer in Vrpolje, the vegetable dryer in Vrpolje stands completely empty, the state doesn't know what to do with it, there's 75 million kuna debt that keeps growing is whether, I guess it's in bankruptcy, I don't know what. And so the nearness of such a drive that could be adapted to drying the fruit stands. So, you can't not get an answer in AUDI either, not at this time so-called. DUDI and wait with an answer for 100 years whether to answer yes or no. The woman went to Serbia to open a fruit-drying plant in Serbia. When you go to any of the stores today, the store, look at the company, so the marked goods, not the ones from the market, then you'll see that the marked goods, starting with, let's not make stamps now so I don't propagate certain stamps, you'll see that it writes made in Bangladesh. Why Bangladesh and Versace and Bennett and the others? Let us ask ourselves a few questions about what Croatia is missing and where it makes mistakes not to come to our investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54008	Thank you. We have a colleague Bubalo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54009	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. Most important in the business plan, one of the segments is the cost of land, etc. But just a stable tax system so people can... Because no capital investment if it is serious of 100 million euros will last 3 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have an example now of IKEA. Well, it only takes three years to realize. So he's doing a business plan for 5 to 10 years as required by banks. Therefore, the stability of the tax system is very important. And I just mentioned Gelly for the reason that he invested in Djakovo from the Netherlands, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia and today it crosses and moves to its production, a good part of production in Serbia because it offers incentives that Croatia does not offer. So we're not competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54010	Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54011	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You've shown two negative facts in your exposé, which is why you won't support it on behalf of the club. One is that Article 16 and the tender, other speculative capital. Now I ask you nicely. The detailed profile of the company, including related companies and the reference list, is obliged to provide an investor that is of course verified and proof of the financial capacity or the secured sources of financing of the project, which of course does not fall under the letter of intent of the xy bank. And you're kind of bringing this into the context of speculative capital and the possibility that it can get through in the Republic of Croatia, to invest some speculative capital in all possible of course checks, and to a good part and recommendations from investors who come from foreign embassies. Question of course investors in Croatia. I have already said that at this point you have 31 investors worth 4 billion and 800 million euros that are under control and aid to Ike and this law is part of that Croatian government story in helping and realising foreign investors. As far as the competition is concerned, so today you have a situation where investors work with both UP and DPU, have spatial plans and all the permits, local consent of the Croatian forests and all the expensive ones to buy a piece of land because they lack a few hectares on a large number of hectares especially in Dalmatia that go through normal procedures. This one only goes by speedy procedure. Thus, there is nothing special about bypasses or special donations but the acceleration of the system as it exists today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54012	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54013	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54014	Get the microphone on, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54015	Excuse me, excuse me. But when it comes to Article 16 we are absolutely that it goes without public competition. We're just looking for a fair match and we're asking that AUDIO or DUDI when there's a possibility and when someone directs a letter, they intend to only ask to call the competition. A normal expert must pre-report the amount of land. So Article 7 is even correct when you threw out BON1, BON2 etc. But Article 16 is absolutely unacceptable to us in the sense that exactly speculative capital will enter the system without a public tender, and called large strategic investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54016	Next replica Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, I'd like to sign almost everything you said in your opening statement on behalf of the club. And we agree both that Croatia needs a law that will boost investment, which will create a new business environment in which it will be encouraging for the investor to invest in Croatia and that is not controversial. But we agree, and I believe that this is not the law, this is not the law. I don't want to be, I don't want to be underpriced to this text, but when you look at it a little bit better, this text seems to me to be one procuring officer in the work of the government's Committee for the Identification of Strategic Investment Projects and for this task force that will implement and assist the investor in the realisation of his project in front of the ministries. You said in your presentation that certain incentives should be established. It is, though, I must correct you all by one other law that we have also passed that seems to me early this year, so this law should rest on it. Or the better it should have been to be a single law on this one, on the promotion of an investment environment in Croatia. And another thing, the government says these seek one transparency in managing and helping investors in the realisation of projects. So we have an example of Zagreb Airport. I am already trying for several months, asking the Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure to tell me whether the most important infrastructure project in Croatia is at this time, which is the construction and construction of a terminal in Zagreb Airport because the contract with that investor is in effect or not, and whether the investor has reached a bank guarantee that it can realise this investment. And to this day here are a few months I can't get an answer. Therefore, you can even come up with a good idea. But if this isn't conducted in a transparent manner, clearly according to the law of this project, unfortunately there's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54018	Thank you. We have a colleague Bubalo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54019	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, this is only for us when we talk about investing in a list of good wishes. So they want to invest more than 150 million kuna. But looking at the environment, we're not going to get it with this law. But I also expect that we can monitor on the web pages of the resolution ministry all the major investments that have not been realised so far, which we expect to resolve by law. But you mention the Zagreb Airport. And I will now mention to you the Osijek Airport which we have been asking for two years to open a tender, only to open a tender for sale, but that has not yet happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54020	Next replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54021	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you said it was good to travel because there's going to be an investment. No official trip will make any investment. No investments are made in bags. And it would be better if the minister were here today than in London, because he just spent his diaries along with the others who left. When you speak well, you notice that one major obstacle to HEP is to investment activity. And it gets the impression that this law will solve all the problems of this new economic activity. He only solves problems for individuals. And this law will only put everyone else in a more unfavourable position, and we're talking about a fair market game. This law, if implemented, and I believe that the Constitutional Court will bring it down, will prevent fair competition on the market, because it goes exclusively large and small and large and smaller, and the number of actors is the main prerequisite for the developed market. This is where the number of players decreases, and we need as many actors as possible. Of course you said, it's a good thing it's not the same investment in Lower Miholjc and Zagreb of 20 or 50 million kuna. True but not the same investment in the infrastructure disposal, for example, in the garbage dump in production or as the business support activities here say. Who will define what business support activities are and this is what about criteria... impossible, untrustworthy or hiring a larger number of persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is a larger number of people three or three thousand? Who's going, this is one... This is actually a rule on different treatment of participants in economic activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54022	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54023	Thank you very much. My colleague Maric would disagree and say in advance that the Minister's trip to London will not contribute to something I would still wait to see if it contributes or not. If he doesn't contribute then the diaries are really spent in vain, but I'm still living in the hope that maybe it won't be like that. But looking at Article 16 is not fair and there is no competition. So with this article 16 you're putting in a investor's situation that he has no competition and you're the ones who want to... The location of something to do and perhaps not within that group up to 150 million kuna will not have the same chance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54024	And the last replica of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54025	Comrade Bubalo, you're right when you say that certain changes in tax laws and tax uncertainty drive more investors away than what makes them change and what the law can bring to Croatia. And some unmeasured statements by individual ministers when entrepreneurs are in the same situation as damage to the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia. Because if someone gives a statement that's unmeasured in relation to entrepreneurs, then they can't guarantee by any law that they'll treat him differently tomorrow. And that's the rule that we could simply learn from some of the past years. Let's just remember that special text tax that the pressures were ambassadors to the countries from which these telecommunications companies came to the minister to end it. This government has abolished it. And where these huge investments in telecommunications are, you might have noticed them. Let's ask the birds that fly around if they're the ones who noticed? No, they're not. And look at the explanation that came into this House, it's being abolished because of the new investment... A telecommunications company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can find a series of cases like that. And the biggest mistake is that we think that with some kind of decree we're going to bring investors. It's something that just doesn't stand. However, many of them fear this article when they see it. It would be far better if all those economic zones that have units of local self-government that aren't small just put the government on some kind of catalogue, you could come and invest there. City and municipal councils have made decisions under which conditions the country can be obtained and here the government proposes that state property can be given without a public tender and without any invitation to tender. Does that point to maybe not corruption? But for now, it's only a difolt for one party. Some, however, are preparing for the field, and I guess something will come to their backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54026	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54027	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. Certainly, tax uncertainty is a serious problem for individuals to make a statement. So sometimes the interpretation of the statements themselves, for example. that statement by Minister Linic that VAT will go up. But it's also your statement about a hack or a super hack. And the minister says it's only 1.2%. But it is the uncertainty of investors and those who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia. So sometimes statements by anyone named a minister or someone who was a minister don't always have to mean the same thing. Therefore, the very doubts we raise in the entrepreneurs are also a problem. But I also want to say that local administration units are operationally and quickly making all the decisions that are required in 7 days at the latest. Therefore, local administration units have not been the same so far as they have been a problem for a single investor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54028	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS Mrs Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Given the importance of the subject, there are few of us in the assembly in this late afternoon class, but it's a good thing there are so many of us. Given the importance of the topic, I would love to see all that time and the minister who proposed this Law, it would be good, since the law is in the final reading, so if it were the second reading of the Law, it would be good that the minister is with us precisely because it is such an important topic and it is an effort to strengthen the investment climate above all in the Republic of Croatia. Yes, we all agreed on one, and we are constantly agreeing no matter who is in power and who is in opposition that Croatia must break down obstacles often and prejudice, but above all both legal and any other obstacles, barriers to this investment swing being stronger, greater, that the potentials of investors would truly experience Croatia as a country where investments and investors are in and in which the businessmen are welcome. Bad laws need to be amended, and, of course, bad sublegal acts should be amended. Here during the debate was a lot of words about what the government had done in previous periods, so in 2011 and before. I remembered one real event from the ministers at the time, I remember that Mr. Bacic was with me, I don't know who else was from the other ministers, but it certainly happened in southern Croatia, in a town where we were sued by a businessman, a potential investor who wanted to invest money, who wanted to build. He complained of one, I think, a sublegal act that he, of course, had to fulfil. And believe it or not, if we hadn't seen it ourselves, we wouldn't have believed it, among other things, asked him to guarantee that he would allow me to quote "the afternoon break of river crabs". If it weren't true, it would be really amazing for and if someone wrote it, no one could trust him. But it was like that. And he complained to us as government members to help solve that problem. You remember probably many and the problem that also a large potential investor had in Knin when he had to deal with the issue of bypassing a stream that was not there, which he had not been there for decades but he had to answer the question of how he would solve the problem of a stream he does not have. So these are some small examples, and we could probably list them all with an extremely large number of people who say that we have to do a lot of work to show the real obstacles here, show and show out in laws and sublaws. However, we would also have to be aware that today’s law at issue is one of those laws that will not change anything in particular or almost anything, unfortunately. I'll take a few arguments to that. I have already mentioned it, and it is not irrelevant precisely because of the moment we live in and because of the moment in which a lot of things have happened, which has also affected Croatia's negative image as a country to invest in. About a number of investigations involving corruption and crime. The removal in the final version of this Article 8 law which prevented and any such fuse in the possible opening of Pandora's new potential cases of corruption or bribery, i.e. at the end of crime, is not good. I propose to the government, I propose to the ministry that, by the end of the debate, an amendment be tabled until the end of the debate to return the article. He certainly hinders those who are convicted of crimes of economic crime, corruption, bribery, etc. It will certainly not be an obstacle to the great achievement of the investments we expect. Of course, without investment there will be no economic growth and therefore I understand the government's wish and surely this law is not conceived, passed, voted in the government for bad purposes. I'm sure the intentions are good. But that's why we need to do everything in our power not to steal any mistakes that will make this law extra if it is voted, and probably, given the debate, it will be further criticised in public and that no further daily opening of what I like to say to the hips. And because of the removal of Article 8 it will certainly be so. Consider, too, NGOs, NGOs who strongly warn about this, and the moment the government gives up on this article is certainly an unfortunate moment. I won't mention everything that's happening to us. So one of the few fuses against irresponsible investors was Article 8 and I suggest that the government return it. As far as the other provisions of this law are concerned, before noon, there is much time I pointed out in one replica that, unfortunately, if the law is adopted in this form, the open way of requesting an assessment of the unconstitutional nature of this law before the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, the law does not comply with Article 49, 50, 51 in particular with Article 52. As you know in the law, the Republic of Croatia is talking about the possibility that the Government will decide without competition, without any prior procedure both on land and on forests, for example. Article 52 is replaced by the The Constitution says the seashore and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, etc. the protection and protection of the Republic of Croatia in particular. However, I also warn you that Article 49 provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market. This is certainly in line with the provisions of the laws that allow me to repeat myself without competition and without particularly a firm previous procedure, the Government decides to give some land, or forest, and everything that can certainly be considered infrastructure for large potential investors. The question is, of course, what are the big investors? Some criteria indicate what it is. However, the government did not give up even though many of us objected in the first reading of Article 5, which also said in the final proposal: "The strategic project will be considered projects etc. which will enable, or create, conditions for the employment of a larger number of persons." What's a larger number of people? It's a very big and important question, which is a large number of people. In times of wrestling with such high unemployment and employment, one person is important, extremely important. Two people, three, and that's already a larger number of people. Is it possible for someone without competition and without previous firm conditions and criteria to give the possibility that here is an investment that will skip all the fences and all the obstacles just to hire three people. We also know about investments, big investments that may not hire anyone. And it's also something that ladies and gentlemen should think about. It could also be some kind of Pandora's box. All of this is covered by the establishment of commissions, operational groups, so additional procedures are being made for what? It's actually bureaucratizing. The commissions by living ministries and the end of the living ministers will not solve anything in particular. When we reached out to solve a major potential investment in 2010, i.e. in 2011, such as Brijuni Riviera, it was then that the ministers were the ones who were the key to solving all issues and finally forming this big, very complicated model called Brijuni Riviera. And then one of the obstacles as I believe some of you remember was the local level or one part of the local level. Therefore, ministers must be stuck, ministers must work hard and ministers must control the processes in their ministries. No commission at any level can replace that. I mentioned Article 5, however, I will mention as another argument in this sense that this law can be assessed from the point of view of constitutionality is Article 18, where it is said literally that the Government can, with the prior opinion of the relevant central authority, etc. decide, or define a formulation that the Government determines the need for urgent action in the court proceedings. The government cannot decide on an emergency procedure in court proceedings. It may be a third pillar or a second pillar, however you wish, but the Government, by its decision, and that's just what's mentioned in one article, and that's where it stops, determines that something is urgent. And it actually determines and orders the court. That's impossible, ladies and gentlemen. And to this please pay attention because the law at least within that main framework that we will bring must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat, there are several other articles of the Constitution that definitely refer to large gaps in this law. And at the end of the time when we make the law. I agree with all those who say that for good laws, for good projects it is never too late and whatever period of life a government has passed it is always on time, it is always welcome that things are a new legislative framework that will allow us to do something faster, easier, simpler. But the law is passed here before the end of the second year of the government's term. He will start living and walking, developing only in 2014. Therefore, if this were the perfect law, such as it is not, it will not be able to obtain the results the government expects. And when we talk about the investment climate, then of course we can't let it out of our sight, the law can't solve everything. One law of whatever it is, the best in the world, can't solve everything. Because for the investment climate and investment potential it is extremely important if in a country, if decisions change in Croatia, if the government changes decisions, if the government changes direction, if the government announces a possible VAT increase again, it is not a good message for potential investors. If last year the price of energy has been raised, of course, for some investors or for all of them if you want to, the one who wants to build it does not matter what the price of energy is and whether it is subject to continuous changes. And certainly in the end, a frequent change in the laws that we tend to be prone to. I've heard a lot of times and personally from potential investors who have given up and never come, you're just guaranteeing that what's in force today is these laws in which we're moving, is that it? Will any of that change in five months? So when we go to do something to make conditions in a large part of the change. And the announcements of raising VAT, therefore, are certainly not messages that could further strengthen investors. And in the end, often times and in this debate today, the local level has been slightly idealized. It should be said that often things get stuck at a local level. Why? Because many will not, because they will not fight with difficulties, because they will not be exposed, because they often do not have enough courage. So in the state administration, in particular the fight against corruption has often led to people not wanting to make decisions, that people do not want to sign out of fear that one day they would not respond. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we won't be able to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54030	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54031	Dear colleagues Kosor, you are not the first to point out in her discussions that the law is inadmissible. Let's say your law-set will employ more people, that's what your colleague Maric said before whether when we open large sales chains then we open one job and we shut down two jobs. We know how many people used to work at the store, how many people do today. I remember the 1990s on the labour market almost without any unemployed journalists, today there are estimated from 800 to 1000 journalists, and when you come to the newsstand you think we must be suffering from the lack of journalists in Croatia, that we want to introduce journalists, but in all these newsrooms there are 5.6 journalists working on the outside for poor money, and someone would say how much they invest in Croatia, with many of these magazines actually being foreign to the magazine license. You said before that in one sublegal act, investors were looking for an afternoon break of river crabs, and now you see we have one great savior of Croatia, a man who should probably already be called if not the institution that punishes the one who examines, that's Mr. Debeljak who called the workers outside who are protesting, who he called terrorists for fighting for his rights. Now I'm not going to criticize a government that hasn't responded, she's concluded a contract with a man who's certainly not up to the work they're doing, the unions have been silent. They should have called on the same moment for the general protest, on a general strike in Croatia when someone dares to declare workers fighting for their rights to terrorists. And Mr Mrsic said forget three times after eight hours, give a message to those who come to Croatia to invest, exploit Croatian workers. Croatian workers are slaves and we are legalizing their slave status.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54032	Thank you. We have a colleague Kosor's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54033	Yes, as for the afternoon break of river crabs, I've been thinking for days and days, I really didn't know that crabs and that river afternoons were resting, and I didn't do that anywhere until after I did research on what that would be. I couldn't find anywhere, no one could answer me why if they had to rest, for example. Rest. That's one simple nonsense here's the simplest thing. Someone made it up, I just wanted to meet and it didn't work out, I wanted to meet this person, these people, that group of people who probably wrote it. It would be important to get to know and see into their world what they really wanted except to complicate life for all of us. I agree with the ugly names of the workers who today are terrified of what will happen to them and people are fighting for a naked existence and they don't know what will happen tomorrow, whether they will work, whether they will lose their jobs and whether they will be hungry and they and their children. But on the other hand, we also meet with one practice that is common and media practice that when it comes to entrepreneurs, it is also very often spoken very negatively, so entrepreneurs are those who rob workers, entrepreneurs very often want to get rich. Well, there's nothing wrong with being honest, honest, honest and hard-working and hard-working one day and rich, so he acquires some property that he can always prove at any time. There is therefore a lot that we must do to change the climate in Croatia that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54034	Thank you. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Kosor, here I will briefly refer to this afternoon's break of river crabs only in the introduction. In fact, it's true that together we were at a meeting where it was exposed, but I must say that even this law will not significantly interfere... Because the article of the 25th Law has taken over the deadlines set by the Nature Protection Act because in order for a particular strategic project to be realised, it should be seen whether it has any impact on the ecological network as was the case with the impact of the afternoon break of river crabs. [[A speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand.]] Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying for the reason that the Government before, or this Parliament, on a proposal from the Government... before the summer, it seems to me that the Nature Protection Act was passed, and that is the law that defines the procedure that determines the assessment and determines the impact of the project on a particular ecological network. Now we are talking about encouraging investment in a faster procedure, practically taking over all those deadlines and dynamics of making a solution in such procedures under the same law. So on the basis of this law in the part where a project has an impact and on the afternoon break of river crabs, we will not speed up anything, however, we will act under the same law that this government has proposed to the Parliament and this law will not speed up anything in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54036	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54037	Yes, Mr. Bacic, we speak the same, so the laws should be passed for the life of the day. Of course, it is extremely important because you too were the minister who took great care of it and it is extremely important to keep what we must not lose, which is our potential, this nature, that wealth that is immeasurable and that is difficult to compare with any EU country. However, the laws that you have shown today in your single replica by stating a series of laws to which the legislator is called, the laws must be mutually harmonised, the laws must be co-ordinated continuously and what we want, where we aim, and what our goal is. I'm afraid that what's proposed today is none of what I've listed completely and to the end clearly. It would be good to have one united law, one law that would really talk about what we are going to change and how much power we will invest that processes that have been important to us all, regardless of what sides we are sitting on, and for the next governments that come, regardless of whether they are left, right, upper or lower, but that requires that when final decisions are made, proposals and suggestions and remarks are taken and all those who debate constructively. Here I am, of course, talking first of all about the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54038	Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54039	Thank you very much. Ma'am, my colleague Kosor was interesting about your exposure to the afternoon break of river crabs and then caring about the nonexistent stream. There were still such interesting reasons about projects, starting with bats when we talk about Omble, and then about human fish that were later found in the waters of Omble, etc. Well then clearly here no one mentioned today what it all conservatively seduces when it burys any shovels, the whole of Croatia not only Dalmatia has history... as the song says it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have this example of the airport, is that so, colleague Bubalo, in Zagreb. But what you have noticed is good for this article 18. Namely this Law, I would say direct Law, so I would call it because it really does so on one precipice, like the Court of Justice derogates many other provisions and even articles in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And what is first and foremost derrogating is what someone said already maritime good, protection of maritime goods, then the Law on the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Environmental Protection in Article 25, that is exactly what is stated. Then, under Article 18, he orders or hastensibly determines the court to act in haste. Well, you can't court and government, no one else, nor the Parliament can, so the court's court case is so-called. the third pillar of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. each country. And one pillar cannot order another to act in a particular court procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54040	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54041	So, my colleague Grubisic, that all the proposals in this Act are perfect, this Article 18 would be a major obstacle to his support because he definitely and it is so crystal clear that it is not in accordance with the Constitution. I am surprised that this article, for example, passed the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because the government can't, the government can't, and ultimately it's us, it's the Parliament, we'll vote or we won't vote, so if the law passes, there will be responsible MPs in the Croatian Parliament who order the courts that the government has determined, as the article states, that these cases are being dealt with urgently, and that's especially with a lot of aspects of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia very doubtful. Because on the one hand you have citizens, you have companies waiting long to solve their problems and not move. I also know many businessmen who are waiting to solve their problems in courts, who also want to invest, who are also hiring, and today they want to hire a lot more and so the courts won't necessarily solve it because they've been waiting for five years. So, first of all, that would put us in an unequal position, which is completely contrary to the constitutional provision that says that we are all equal before the law. But there is no doubt that we have three pillars of power and one pillar of power or two if the government and the Parliament are in charge of a third pillar that must be completely independent of doing something, doing something or not doing something. And as for protection, exactly, we need to find some balance here. I think for sure that in one Germany, one France takes care of nature protection. And in order for there to be no doubt, I absolutely think that all the species and river crabs and bats and human fish and all the other and wolves and all the other animals that we also need to protect ourselves by.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54042	Thank you. Replica Igor Radjenović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I cannot be too quiet not to disturb the peace. It's the afternoon of the river crabs, but good, the joke aside. I agree with this last sentence of yours that everything should be protected and that all Croatian laws should be respected. And the very spirit of this law is to speed up procedures and not to have such absurdities happen. Did the first sound like an absurd and, of course, for nature's protection, that's not the case. But now the spirit of this law and all the procedures are actually listed that something that until yesterday for the need to obtain documentation for a particular investment lasted 5, 6 or 8 months to now last a month or two. Something that took two or three years to last seven, eight months or, if possible, even shorter. And it's actually through all these provisions you actually see the spirit of that story. And that's what the legislator tried. He tried through one, through two readings, through amendments. And here we are, possibly with a few more amendments that I see arriving at the benches trying to fix that law. Why did I report primarily to the replica, you spoke and leafed the Constitution and said that from the aspect of the Constitution that perhaps some of these provisions are not constitutional. And I must say again again what I said and in my discussion, therefore the provisions of this Law, and the minister, too, has withdrawn, you have it in mind, so they have their basis in the 16 laws that are stated in the arguments. So specifically for the woods, the Law on the Forests, Article 51 prescribes this power, which is actually prescribed by this Law. Article 16 for the use of assets equally states Article 52. The law on management and availability of property. You said the laws of each other must be coordinated, and then these laws are coordinated, specifically for these two cases that you mentioned may not be constitutional with those two laws. If they're not, then neither are these forest laws, so are property management, so we're opening Pandora's box. As far as Article 8 is concerned, from the point of view of equality, so it is inequitable, the citizens of the European Union, we have entered the European Union, we cannot separate domestic and foreign investors, they therefore have the same entry. And little trust for Croatian government ministers mayor and mayor to make some decision And that she won't be in contradiction with, yeah, okay. I lost the thread, my time is up. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54044	We figured out a colleague of Radenovic's. Here's my colleague Kosor's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54045	Thank you very much. As for my invitation to my colleague, Radjenovic, to the Constitution, I thank you for saying earlier that I was a lawyer and commended me for being a good lawyer. Thank you very much for that. So from that point of view, I have observed the provisions of this law, and I would not like it, no matter how anyone votes, but when the law is passed, I would not like it, it would be bad for someone to tear it down in the Constitutional Court, and believe it is possible for many reasons to bring down the law in this form in a constitutional court. In the end, you mentioned a few laws. The constitution is above all laws and the fact that we may still have some unconstitutional provisions in some law just means that so far no one has responded, but this should be the roof law, the law of all laws that speaks of what we will and how we will improve the investment climate. Right, I also said in my debate that I have no doubt that the government's intentions proposed by the law were good. I absolutely don't doubt it, because every day, we, too, faced incredible obstacles in the government that I led. Here's the IKEA, the IKEA that wants to build, but then it gets stuck all the way down the highway, and then we're going on about it, and then we come back all the time, and we're going around for months, and nothing's happening. When you talk about trust, of course I trust everyone and especially the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, etc., but trust and good intentions and on their part are also often not enough, but a firm legal framework is needed in which everyone will move. So I think this debate that hasn't ended yet can also result in some revisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54046	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So here during the debate, I've already expressed my position several times in replicas, and now I'm going to try to do it in a certain way to make some kind of taste of those remarks. In the first row, I believe that Croatia needs an Investment Act or what it will be called is not important, but in my view, this solution that the Government has made and in the second reading in the Assembly is not a good enough legal solution that can boost investment in Croatia. At first, I would immediately remove a dilemma that has already been mentioned here several times. I am also in favour and I agree with all those who say that for a good law is always the right time so it was passed on the last day of the meeting of this Parliament. If the law is good for him is always the right time, there is no dilemma about it. But this law is specific because it comes after 22 months of the work of this government and in a certain way either derogates or particularly highlights certain laws that this government and this Parliament have passed. So there are 17 laws or 16 laws listed there, and of those 16 of them 14 we have discussed here over the past 22 months, and I don't understand that if the government had this vision that it is now trying to implement with this law in the investment section, why, when we passed those 14 laws, we didn't prescribe such provisions that we are now trying to speed up, to shorten this now unique law on strategic investment projects. So that's what I was going to say, so we had the first reading of this law somewhere before in the spring, then we passed three more laws that now with this or we discussed them in the first reading, and now this law is in the final version of it in a certain way we derrogate. Here it is, or at least it seems to me that in this government, he doesn't know what he's doing on the right, and I'm going to elaborate on that later. The other thing, someone here has already said it before me, it can't be fundamental and the basic criterion is the height of the investment, it can't be. This is not a sufficient criterion for the Parliament or the Government to support a particular investment and therefore I agree with all those who say that we should firstly adopt the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, both in regions and in areas, in activities, in economic branches, etc., etc. so we would know what our strategic project is in Slavonia, which is our strategic project in Istria, which is a strategic project in Međimurje, which is a strategic project in Dalmatia. So if we had brought such a single strategic document, then I guess maybe on the islands there would be a strategic project and an investment worth a million kuna. If it fits the criteria set out in the Croatia Development Strategy. Therefore, the question here is not whether before a chicken or an egg, here first of all it was necessary to make a strategy and then, from that strategy, the law would be comprehensive, not like this, in a certain way, but in rough lines defined. What I disagree with, and what I spoke on committees and in replicas, is that this law marginalises local self-government units, and I disagree with no one who says that there are some local sheriffs out there who don't care about the development of their unit of local self-government after we've got citizens' trust in direct elections. I don't agree with that. And here is a moment ago, Mrs. Kosor mentioned that when we realized the Brijuni project, we had a certain brake in a single unit of local self-government, now it doesn't matter, but it seems to me that Brijuni Riviera was the first conflict that occurred in Kukurik coalition between Zoran Milanović and Ivan Jakovčić because Zoran Milanovic opposed Ivan Jakovčić as Istrian mayor to sign the project. So much for whether local sheriffs are really an obstacle to the realisation of strategic investment projects. Therefore, the law cannot, must not derivate, or remove a unit of local self-government because it is contrary to the Constitution, because it is contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and this law must give full support to the local self-government unit that it too is interested in realising certain projects in its space, and not immediately and priorities doubt local self-government. This law is further out of line with the bill we discussed before, I don't know, a month ago. It's a law of spatial order. Two ministers in the same government, from the same party, refer two laws to the Parliament that are in conflict with each other. It's a democracy that professors say. Tudjman agrees, but it seems to me that in the wrong place this democracy has been realized. Furthermore, what this law also wants to speed up is there and I accept. I agree that it is also necessary to speed up the issue of acts for the construction and adoption of spatial plans and the resolution of property-legal relations when it comes to land owned by the state, whether forest, agricultural, public roads etc. And it needs to be accelerated, it's not controversial. But the question of equal legality for all citizens in front of the Constitution is because some can take urgent action. And if this is not an emergency procedure, we will punish the civil servant because he did not implement the project by emergency procedure and if it is not an emergency procedure, we will punish the civil servant because he did not carry out the project by emergency procedure and at the same time some citizen who is also building a building or building his own building or his own little drive. He will wait for the difficult, long-term procedures passed under this government by other laws which we now derrogate with this law and go in favors to one investor who will then make the project a terrible acceleration under this law. I've said it before, and now I'm going to say it again. I think it is wrong of this law to point to local self-government and to the spatial arrangement as fundamental, as the main culprits of the absence of investments in Croatia. That's not true, that's not true. The main culprit for which there is no investment in Croatia except recession and crisis, and we need to be aware of that. There's a crisis and recession in the world, there's no flowering roses, and there's no huge investment in our environment. It's just a crisis, investments have fallen, and we need to be aware of that. But the fundamental reason is whether an entrepreneur will invest in Croatia, because the tax system and the labour price, and then even more clearly and administrative obstacles that arise and which we wake up and more honestly and, let's say, are in a certain part of our legislation when it comes to investment, construction, etc. There are these problems, but fundamentally whether the state is stable, whether the tax system is firm, whether it lasts for years or changes every week or every month, whether the government announces new taxes and gives them up. This cacophony of different thinking in Croatia when it comes to the tax system is really worrying. It is alarming that every week he has announced a tax to me, not us, but the government or ministers, after a week, give up, and after 15 days they remember again. Then one part of the ruling doesn't support it, then support it, etc. etc. It is, in my opinion, a major obstacle to stronger investment in Croatia. And when we talk about these building permits in force, the Act of Conduct and Construction Conditions is to encourage investment or the law we called collokchially all in 45 days. And I have an analysis of how large projects were implemented under this law within 45 days. Over 50% of all requirements have been resolved in 45 days, as only one administrative procedure has been conducted, only one administrative procedure has been conducted. There's no location permit, and that went according to a speedy procedure. I don't know if any of you have been involved in this business and it's all settled. Who hasn't been solved? It's not only for those who weren't usually landowners and couldn't get It's good. [[Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica. Your colleague's out of time.]] Thank you, Madam Vice President. You could have let me finish my sentence at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54049	Comrade Bacic, you haven't spoken in the style of some of your predecessors today and on this side of yours the better. So, really showing what's wrong and what's wrong and that, but you're saying it constructively and that's good. Namely, you have listed 14 laws that we have adopted that we are now, in fact, derogating in some way, and right after this debate is the 15th law, the Law on the Strategy for the Development of Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia. So, the proposal for a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia, and here I was also in the European Parliament where much debate on entrepreneurship is being discussed, so-called entrepreneurship. SMS companies, therefore to small and medium-sized enterprises, so to companies that say there are 22 million in Europe. So, legal entities of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. If each of these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the EU hired only one man, it would be 22 million new jobs in the EU. I will not speak in advance of this Law on the Strategy for Entrepreneurship Development in the Republic of Croatia. But what you said was that we don't have a strategy and that's the only measure of that 150 million kuna and that's the strategy, as fast as possible, very alarming or feverishly to grab any kind of investment that's 150 million kuna. And that's the only criterion and the only criterion. And that's not good, but it's exactly what you said so it should be by regions, but also by sectors of economic activity to classify strategic goals and direction of development of the Republic of Croatia and investment accordingly. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54050	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54051	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Grubisic that it should have been adopted previously, which you have confirmed, first and foremost, to bring a strategy and then it would probably be easier to set out the criteria, principles, procedures how and how to implement these projects. And I said that this law almost wouldn't be necessary if when we passed the concession law we were thinking about what we're discussing today. That when we passed the Nature Protection and Environmental Protection Act, the second law, we thought about how to encourage and speed up the procedure. That when we pass the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, we have defined the procedures to speed up the entry of a building permit and how to speed up the adoption of spatial plans, we should not pass such a law. When we passed the Construction Act, that is, when we discussed it in the first reading, I said that the government would make it difficult for the government to make a building permit in relation to the existing solution. And we are asking this law to speed up the adoption of a building permit, and when it is passed under the law, the lex specialis will be that investor and that citizen who asks for a building permit will have more difficulty than he has under the current procedure. And not to tell investors when they act under this law against the existing Construction Conditions Act to encourage investment that I just said, so all in 45 days. We were able to bring in the current procedure, give the investor permission to build within 45 days. And from that we give up and go to some new law that won't speed up, I'm sure according to this current solution and this law we won't speed up the issue of building acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54052	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54053	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bačić, what do you think should be passed by such laws and does no matter how many laws are passed to neutralize what is wrong with the noises of communication between members of the government? Because, look, the finance minister announced that because of the problem in the budget, due to the excessive deficit, it would have to raise VAT, that various cuts would have to be made. Today, on the press, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister who is practically the biggest promoter of Croatia, at least that's how it should be, according to the outside, no, there's no tax hike and we haven't discussed it in a narrow cabinet. And so at this point, I won't even talk about what it would mean to raise taxes, but I am the way these things happen and it's certainly tanging tomorrow's business result for whoever wants to invest in Croatia is not good. And we can bring in no idea how many of these laws won't attract investors. If you retroactively make this same political option two things exactly the same in ten years, then the investor no longer believes. Do not forget the protection interest by the Minister of Finance at the time in a specific way calculated and people have actually been reduced by that deductible item and raised the base for profit tax and many today receive litigation with the basis of it and the state should pay them. The same story happens 10 years later, but now it's not about that, it's about introducing a retroactive capital gains tax. Anyone who wants to come to Croatia I'm the happiest when he says he'd come to invest in Croatia out of interest. Why? Well, because then we'll all benefit from it. But if he came for any other reason, brother, run away from him as far away as possible. Therefore, if someone came out of interest, it is very important to him how much he will earn at the end of the year. And that's his purpose and reason for coming to Croatia. Not because he adores us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54054	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54055	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's right, fellow Shuker. I, while you've been replicating me here, hastily wrote four solutions, legal solutions that point to the total noise as you called it or misunderstanding among the members of the government and within one party, as well as within the ruling coalition. Real estate tax law, I don't know, and I'm pretty closely following what's going on with that law, I don't know if in the end that law will be passed, won't it be passed, what is his destiny? It seems to me that Minister Linic insists on this especially now that we are talking about a rather elevated deficit of the state budget and we want to increase the revenue side of the budget. The second law again concerns the abolition of the first real estate. Will it be lifted, won't it be lifted? HNS is against it. I don't even know what's going on with it, which is why the Minister of Finance announces something that isn't coordinated. With that, it's the suspension of the household savings subsidy. Does anyone know what will happen to this and what the fate of this subsidy is? Is he saving up next year going to get that incentive for housing savings or not? I'm really interested in it even though I'm not saving up in residential cooperatives, but I'm interested in whether this kind of savings will continue to be encouraged. What about the VAT rate? Will it rise from 10 to 13%? Otherwise, I don't know, I don't see what these reasons are that with such important issues as tax policy that directly entangles every Croatian citizen, which is why they go unnecessarily to the public and that when investors see what happens, they will be interested in investing in a country where within a month 5 times the attitude on taxes is changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54056	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54057	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Now I'd like to rephrase what Mr. Bacic was saying, but first I'm going to look back at his debate about this law. So, I'm glad that you said that it was essentially necessary to speed up the adoption of documentation and to understand the need, you suggest that it could have gone through long laws, but other laws are other laws. This law defines clearly what strategic investments are, and it is said in the introduction and the minister clearly, defines also for public projects but also for projects of private investors, but not for those who will only come tomorrow, so often it is said where these investors are, are they at the border. No, they are not at the border and they are waiting for Croatia to enter, I think we have entered the EU, so they can do so without waiting at the border. It's about investors who are in Croatia. I'm telling you, here's the third time I've told you, you've got 31 projects that have been going on for years because of the UPU and the DPU. So you know very well, and they've already gone out in the media and these are clear investors without speculation as they say here. And on Solta you have a problem where the municipality sold land and it is essentially from the Croatian forests, you have in Podgorica where the UPU couldn't possibly pass because even though it was paid by the investor there is some reason or I don't know what reason. You've already discussed Srd, so you have concrete investments that have been hitched, blocked for x y reasons, so this is one of the laws that solves and existing and ensures in the future that processes are accelerated. Otherwise, the first real estate tax will not be introduced, be sure and the New Tax Act will not go on real estate until GDP is growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54058	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54059	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, first of all, I never attack any law just to attack him but always try to be constructive when it comes to laws. Well, that's exactly what I did when we discussed the Law on Spatial Planning where I commended the minister, and I'm sorry until we were part of the government, it's her suggestion that certain economic zones, construction zones, tourist zones should be implemented within five years to get rid of spatial plans. I think it's one of the good solutions. If, within five years, it does not begin to produce an UPU or any infrastructure direction or type of supply of that same zone that there is no reason to stop another zone where an interested investor exists. And as for this part of which you're talking about, you're breaking into the same trap again, you resent the local self-government. Before we said that democracy is a procedure, and in particular democracy is a procedure in a spatial order and believe me, it's never good in a spatial arrangement to skip something because it's being rejected from your head at the time. And we talked about Srja's problem, and this morning it was about that too. Had there not been such a prescribed procedure in the adoption of the urban plan of Srdje and the Dubrovnik public, it could not have been declared for Srdj, for its vision through city council council council council council councils, and even through the referendum held and which the investment in a certain part has stalled, this Srdj today would not have been as it is. And this procedure, which eventually resulted in a referendum and a debate on the city council, made the project really acceptable and good for the investor, and that was to skip that procedure that we would skip with this law if we adopted it like this, I'm afraid that the investor would get it around the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54060	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54061	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am glad to see that you mentioned the Brijuni-Riviera project for a while, it was a good project, and the fact is that in a political sense, and I am saying this very well-meaningly the first major match in today's ruling coalition happened then because of the fact that you mentioned Mr. Jakovcic, because of the fact that I should have signed this contract as Prime Minister at the time. But that teaches us something else, it doesn't matter who does what, it's important that good projects continue, that we work on good projects. And finally, in politics, we learn in the experience of others, so we learn in the successes as well as in the mistakes of others. I would mention the project in the last one, but the previous government, so a major project of the Golf Act, which finally passed by the government, has been abolished. Why? Because we saw, it was also one of such similar overzacons that was supposed to improve the construction of golf course in the Republic of Croatia, and we in the last government found that nothing in particular happened after the adoption of that law, nothing, nor did we get a large number of built golf courses or a larger number of tourists and that all the regulations existing in Croatia were allowed without the law to golf if there was interest and if there was any interest they could build. So we have made a decision to put this law out of force because of the big objections in a part of the likes of these that we present today. So I also point out that our debates today are well-intentioned in opposition because we really want Croatian regulations to be those that attract us, not to reject investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54062	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54063	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my esteemed colleague Kosor with what you said. After two years with the right, this Domagoj was with us on this team, where Brijuni are today, where the Coopers, where is today the airport and these were the projects that we have been doing in the last two months of office, seem to me and were in the stage of calling the competition and it seems to me to be very fast effective if I can tell the procedure there that allowed us to get to the investor very quickly. And what we've changed back then in law and I think it's good and I resent this law that we've said, the investor is going to propose an urban plan or a detailed plan whatever his name is. That's what we said, let's let him put his pants on, not give him someone else like that, make a project for him to invest in. Let him decide how to invest. Finally, the decision on this is made by the competent city, or municipal council, although the local self-government unit disagrees with that, and a common solution will be found in some conversation. But saying that Brijuni investor doesn't need a document of spatial order whatever his name is for me is unacceptable. Because we're going to get that investor into such trouble if he's building a big project like Brijuni Riviera without knowing at the start how much that investment is worth, what's waiting for him there, it's completely unacceptable for me not to say inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54064	Miss Plancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54065	Thank you. Well, esteemed colleague Bačić, I've been listening to you here and on the board for days as well as for the rights of local self-government units to manage their own space and not to impose solutions that they may not want. So I ask you nicely to explain to me how it is possible that we in the Old Town of Hvar, so on the island, by changing the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, where your political option is already too long and which was adopted yesterday by two new tourist zones, two maricculture and quarry zones, while three existing tourist zones have been wiped out at the same time. And all this despite the persistent, unanimous opposition of all the entities and all the political options in the city. And this is being spatial... So it happened before the adoption and this new law on spatial planning and this law that we're talking about today, with the exact same argument, incentives and faster realisation of investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for your credibility and HDZ's so-called concern about the role of local self-government units in spatial planning. Does this mean a colleague that you advocate that only the county and preferably only those in which you have a majority have the right to impose investments on local self-government units? This law we're discussing today says that an investment cannot be realised... a spatial plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that the decision on its implementation will be attended by representatives of the local self-government unit. And our County of Split-Dalmatia has precisely created this strategic plan for the local self-government unit against our will and declared it mandatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54066	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54067	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's colleague Plancic I really can't really talk about this proposal, I'm not familiar with him. The Law on Spatial Planning has clearly defined the approach to the change of the municipal spatial plan, i.e. the spatial plan of arrangement of the municipality and the spatial plan of the county. In the county where I come from, and that is small, this morning mention and fellow Marelic is changing the spatial plan. But the spatial plan is changed on the basis of a 2011 unit of local self-government, which is supported by a letter from the new chief who has been elected... in this local election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I agree completely with you that in the Old Town, the county should not impose solutions either when it comes to mariculture or when it comes to any other, any other purpose of space. But now I find it strange that all the political parties there disagree and yet it's been brought, that we, something is wrong with me. Because if all the political parties disagree with something, then I guess it can't be brought. I don't think that makes any sense to me. But I agree, and I keep saying that, in the space of the unit of local self-government, the city council, or the municipal council, is what decides about spatial planning. There are exceptions, and I support that, there are exceptions when there are important infrastructure roads, corridors that must then be aligned with them and the county and local self-government units. And there's no choir about it. But for any smaller projects, any economic purposes, any public purpose there is, in my opinion, sole jurisdiction for local self-government. the city, or the municipalities. And that's how the county should act to change the county's spatial plan if it's an initiative from the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54068	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54069	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was necessary, you said it was necessary to speed up the processes and remove obstacles for investors, of course it was one of the major obstacles to the overall activity. But why just remove obstacles and speed up individual processes? Well, it's necessary for everyone if we want the benefit of this country and if we want to raise overall economic activity. Because there will be no economic development if only individuals are preferred because this will disrupt competition. For example, now, someone invests in the tourism sector, a 150 million kuna complex, one investor who has been convicted of several crimes, laundered money, a criminal proven. To him, the state will bow down and get out of the way so that he can gain everything rapidly. And at the same time you've got 20 investors per 100 million kuna, they're going to have to line up to wait, because of the first one you're going to be punished by officials and these others are going to be rewarded by officials who stop them. But also let's not forget, is, you said well that the tax system and the labour price are important for investment. Contributions are important, water compensation is important, power for electricity is important. No one will invest in Croatia and open a production hall in which construction costs are lower than electricity costs needed for this type of production hall. There's also a key problem. And the additional problem is taxes new, taxes unannounced. And the finance minister armed with taxes as with machine guns is waiting in wait and says you can't inside here are banned investments and activities. Only for the chosen we let go, great and powerful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54070	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54071	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Maric, I said so, and you've confirmed so I don't know how to defend a law in which what the gods are allowed is not ox. It is not clear to me at all, and I am sure that this law will have a fat check in the Constitutional Court when certain procedures apply only to some, so when something that is understandable and should be available to every citizen will not be available under this law. And so I keep saying, why we've been passing laws for 20 months to which we've prescribed procedures, which we've laid down provisions on how to issue building acts, how to establish legal interest on certain land, now we're changing this law head-to-head, and we're leaving this procedure only for privileged citizens in this country, and for ordinary citizens we're not. And the other thing, you said, you mentioned that in addition to taxes, there are clear and parafiscal fees that are huge and that detimise immediately at the start of the investor. Therefore, those units of local self-government that know how to lower communal at the right time, when they consider that they are given a certain investment of importance for the development of a particular unit of local self-government and public contribution, a reduction of other fees that are in their jurisdiction, and it would be good for the state to prescribe, along with those criteria which are very general and, by my end, are not clear, that it has laid down what opportunities it is for the state, Croatian forest, road, HEP, etc., to assist that investor. Because as you just said in your previous replica, how many times has HEP stopped investments due to the lack of installed power in a particular space. Whoever deals with this business knows how much investment has stalled because it has not been brought either water or draining or electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54072	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54073	Thank you very much. ... To repeat, you've been very constructively arguing and wondering who's the main culprit. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's probably everybody's fault, but I'm asking you who's going to be guilty after the adoption of this bill if there's no new investment. Probably investors. But also, looking at the proposal for a legal solution and that famous article, say 13, if the central authority of the state administration... the administrative body will be punished by a fine of 5000 kuna. But what is important, it is paid in favour of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, so the units of local administration or state administration are condemned, but still the money goes to the state budget. It would be logical to go then if it wasn't the local or regional administration unit to blame for going to the budget, at least some to have income until the investor was determined or resolved to the end. Therefore, if I am interested in the next year, we also have a record of who will be punished and may receive a report at the end of next year, to see how many penalties there have been and how many investors and who has been punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54074	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54075	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bubalo, it seems to me that at the end of next year this law will not be... because I don't see his reach so I wouldn't judge him. I don't think he can significantly boost investment, unfortunately. I would like to be wrong and that, at the end of next year, the Government is denying me this law and that there is a tsunami already announced in Croatia's investments. Therefore, I do not think that this law will make a significant contribution so that he will surprise us pleasantly, so he will not be guilty unless he comes to them. And on the other hand, you say punishment goes to the state budget, funds go to the state budget. So this is one visual copy that we have already seen when we passed the Law on Construction Inspection where municipalities and cities are forced to need their municipal directors to become construction inspectors at the same time and when they bring mandated penalties to that income again to the state budget. Therefore, the government has one convenient habit of burdening local self-government, and when it reacts under such a law, something charges to the state budget as its income.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54076	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54077	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today... through several replicas said by chance what I think of this law and which is its only and fundamental flaw the greatest, which at this time we do not have a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. I am aware that most of this House will pass this law and I have written five amendments, one I have now deleted or withdrawn because in almost identical content it was given by Mr. Giovanni Sponza. Our thinking is the same here. A colleague from the HDSSB mentioned article 16 and the reason that he would not vote for this law. I'm talking here about articles 16 to 20, right in the section relating to the problem of forest land, the deforestation of forest-economic grounds, the availability of this land without a public tender, the removal of ownership and the status of public goods. Therefore, in the amendment to be made first in Article 16 I propose to add a new item which reads: "In the case of detached forest and forest land necessary for the implementation of a strategic project from a forest-economic base and the application of ownership rights to another person, it is binding to make a fissibility study or to study the justification of the intended procedure in space, as well as the obligation to conduct an environmental impact study, with the application of all the positive environmental protection regulations.". This is a very important question for what can happen on a land like that, in a place like that, and I'm not saying this for no reason. In the second amendment to Article 21(4), I propose that something be changed which is not logical. It doesn't make sense to give someone a concession for 99 years, practically a century. We know what has happened in the past century since Austria-Hungarian over the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and NDH and the Socialist Yugoslavia, so the Homeland War and everything. How many governments, how many arrangements, how many things have changed in the last 99 years. What is logical and what is realistic is that the concession can be given for a maximum period of 25 to 30 years, except in the case of what was previously prescribed that, for a 30-year concession, the Government can grant a concession but only with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. There is little mention of the Croatian Parliament here in this law and little mention of the fact that the Croatian Parliament should be approved by the Government. I don't know why you're ignoring yourself in that part. In Article 23(1), I believe that this amendment is practically accepted in view and I have listened carefully to my reply to the reply of Minister Vrdoljak, a colleague of the SDP. I suggest that, in this article 27, two letters of "no" should be deleted, and paragraph 1 of the law relating to the issue of administrative permits. This would mean that provisions relating to legal regulations concerning authorisation and spatial planning apply. And another amendment, the third amendment that is very important, and there you are from the coastal area, from an area that is on the islands, by the sea, famous for that Law on the Protected Coastal Area. I propose, and I do not know who should be bothered to add in Article 23(1) rules governing the conditions of construction in the protected coastal area. Now, a little bit about the law itself and how I see it myself. We at this point, and we said that in the beginning we don't know what strategic investments are, that is, all investments if they're more than 150 million kuna, 75, 20 or 20 million. And then in that same article in paragraph 2, we speak either, or, or, or. So he can do anything. Now he's wondering where? At this point, I repeat again 555 municipalities and cities, each having at least one business or economic zone with ready urban plans, with ready conditions to be filled and to move into construction. And then you ask the question of the speedy realization of the project. The question arises as to who will build infrastructure on such a field, for example, from the forest-economic base and forest land. We're going back to local self-government units and I don't know how much we care about it and how many citizens know, but the budget of local self-government units in the amount shown is mostly less than 25%. Why? For each infrastructure built by the local self-government unit in any business zone and local self-government unit, the investor pays VAT, so 25%. After 2007 when the Water Economy Law was passed, salaries and water contribution, and then water compensation. So these are all the funds that units of local self-government are paying into the budget. Now let's go back to being some kind of strategic investment. I'm going to give you an example from the beginning of two thousand years when in a beautiful old town at sea as a strategic investment, the announced pompous purchase of a huge crane is announced. That crane then cost $30 million. $30m until last year, interest payments were paid, $30m since last year, and that strategic investment stands, rusting 12 years in the same place. She works a year, maybe two, three times, with a 75% capacity. It was a strategic investment past the will of the local self-government unit imposed on that area. Destroyed space, standing, and the taxpayers and this country are paying off through the Port Authority that $30 million. The second danger to this law was the other day I wrote an indication to the Prime Minister, the President of the State and the State's Attorney's Office on the application of one of the businessmen. The man bought a nice plot next to the business zone in the green belt, we checked he paid 3 and a half euros to the owner in private. And he's coming to us, he's a businessman, we have to give him land in the business zone because he's going to invest there worth 80 euros because the city cost so much. This law allows how it was written without a unit of local self-government to gain such an opportunity in that space. And I don't think that's right. I'm going back to another law that's in symbiosis with this. It's a new proposal for a law on spatial planning, where units of local self-government are eliminated to decide what's going to happen in their space and I personally think it's not good. I don't believe there's a unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia that doesn't want any investment. Here, if there are investors at this point, we can offer him two, three, four, five, ten, fifty, one, two hundred thousand square feet of land communally equipped with a highway with a rail track with a master's gas pipeline. And let's remember how, under the current law, the Pula-Karlovac bus pipeline was built. It was an investment that started overnight, built practically overnight with all the privileges, all the necessary things. Here we speak, enter the word of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Here we also come to the Law on my amendment to the draft law by Minister Maras where I spoke and gave the amendment to enroll only one word of interest of the Republic of Croatia, not accepted but put the economic interest of Croatia within the scope of spatial plans, i.e. urban plans of business zones. That it was then accepted as much as it could speed up investment in that space. If I didn't say what my colleague in the HDSSB mentioned that my economic operator coming to work in the business area, we have to pray HEP, influence who to build a transistor station so he doesn't want to build a trafostation because it's not in their plan, so he's building an investor and a city to end up handing over free property to HEP to give him electricity. These are the problems of this country and why we have investment. And finally, recently he was a German investor with me satisfied with the price of land, infrastructure, everyone wants to invest. He's asking me one question, can we guarantee him that these conditions will be for the next five to ten years? We said we can't. So Minister Linic recently announced that the law will change five times in one day His answer was, and how do you think we're going to invest? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54078	Time. Thank you very much. I need to tell my colleague you are among the few who spoke to the Rules of Procedure about the law in the second reading. Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54079	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, you talk all the time and that's normal from the aspect of local self-government, you say one of the main reasons why there is no strategy for development of the Republic of Croatia. And this law is based essentially on the spatial plans of the county, i.e. local self-government. And spatial plans are the definition of basically the strategy of the purpose and management of the space of local self-government. And no situation can happen and neither does this law allow your economic zone to report to the government in the neighborhood and that it builds anything there. Are the economic zones in Croatia, and are they not, obviously, attractive enough for foreign investors? Because on the one hand, as we say down in Dalmatia, we've come up with different equipment and we've defined them differently at the prices that we offer, that's another problem. Whether or not the investor that comes into the zone wants to connect to the HEP connection, and she says that the trans-station but not such capacity because you do not have any interest in such capacities. These are other stories, but there is not only a problem of HEP, the problem is in planning more economic zones than we need. Why? Because investors want to invest where they want to, not where we want to. Therefore, the purpose and management of local self-government is defined and this law only helps and speeds up to implement projects that are waiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54080	Replication response, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54081	Well, you told your colleague I was speaking from the position of local self-government. And from what position will I speak and any of you here in the Parliament? Local self-government is our citizens, are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's the way it is, we're their representatives. I'm not talking here on behalf of a town, I'm talking here on behalf of some of my citizens. And what I've set an example of myself is what I'm saying because I know the problem well, and I know that such a problem is both in Slavonia and Dalmatia, especially in Gorski Kotar. We didn't mention Gori Kotar here, the highway was built. I was upstairs the other day. The state, i.e. the Croatian forests approved a single economic operator somewhere in Fužine 50 thousand cc's of wood mass, another economic operator in Chabra did not approve 5,000 cc's, so it must import from Slavonia in order to work some almost product. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about not knowing what we want. Do we want to export an example of wood mass in logs, wagons in Italy, Austria, I don't know where to buy after the chair and furniture, or do we want to go to the Gorski Kotar or somewhere where the forests are able to build a plant that will finalize the product that we will send around the world, I guess cash it and produce it as raw material? That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about having potentials, we have sea, we have woods, we have fields. What's our development strategy? It's a document that should have preceded this law. In any case, this law will not get a second result from what we currently have if we don't break up, unless whoever is in power at local self-government in some city and municipality elections have passed and who is at the state level unless those two heads merge, but some kind of solutions are imposed on local self-government units will not be an investment whatever law they make.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54082	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54083	You spoke of giving concessions as referred to in Article 1 which says that giving concessions is related to the implementation of strategic projects. Now, what are strategic projects anyway, and who will the concession go to? The second question is a 99-year concession. That's what I was talking about. Namely, to give a child who has a six-month concession on a 9-year-old baby she wouldn't possibly let God experience the end of his concession. But if you give an adult a natural person who is 30, 40 years old, that means that this concession will probably be passed on to his offspring and to someone else. So it's really weird. The state can either grant a concession so she like Hong Kong went to England in neither do I know of 99 years, but this is the way to casually evaluate and extract 99 years to a private person, it's really a little weird and a little awkward. Furthermore, you were also talking about the daily bombs of Bosko Buha every day we have starting from, let's not want to say it so harshly but it's really bombing and in fashion, one day we have real estate tax, the other day we don't have it. One day we have a property tax, another day we don't have it, one day we have a tax on real estate HNS doesn't fit, one day we have a law on the spatial arrangement of Mrs. Mrak Taritas, Vrdoljak says there's no need we'll do it by regulation on strategic investments to derrogate, one of the emperors is naked, the second day the emperor is trained and such one uncertainty legal and tax in the Republic leads to everything you've talked about and that I agree with because these are examples of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54084	The reply to the replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54085	Here's a thank you. My colleague, you said the key thing is that it's 99 years old. Unfortunately, I inherited a contract in which it had been written for 99 years. During the four years of this corner, the situation has changed completely. He was so damaged that practically the local self-government unit would have bankrupted what obligations it had to fulfil towards the foreign investor. We lost two years to avoid a court dispute and made a deal to break it up with him, and here we are talking about 99 years. And as you said to a child who is born today how old he will be in 99 years and what potential he will be able to use if we give it to someone 10, we're talking about it. When we talk about strategic investments, then for me, the country's strategic investment is a flat-rate railway that has given up although space-planned documentation has been made, adopted both at the county and at the state and local level. Road Prizisce-Yellow Lokva building permit, local permit, feasibility studio justification that tells the profession that it's worth 30 years, it's not going to be built. And that's a strategic investment? The strategic investment was the Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline, which is for me strategic investments that the state must lead, force us into local self-government units to push them and speed them up, all of these are investments that we have enough space to claim to you that we can push whether into St. Sunday, whether in Slavonia, whether in the town of Otocac in their business zone Gospić, Senj anywhere, wants to go to the sea he wants to go to the mountains wherever he wants because these are not strategic investments, these are investments. ...in an article or, or, or.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54086	Thank you. We continue the debate of Damir Rilje here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54087	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague as many of you as you are. Here I am using this opportunity to express my personal thinking regarding the proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, which is ahead of us and here I can say that, given that the Republic of Croatia needs an urgent launch of investment cycles as the main driver of economic growth and economic development in the Republic of Croatia, this is the intention of creating a prerequisite for this bill to increase investment in the Croatian economy, i.e. improving the conditions for managing goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia. In order not to convince the law, I would just like to point out a few of the questions that I personally pose in terms of increasing the efficiency of investment investments that this bill could adopt. In addition to harmonising with 17 existing laws that prescribe possible investments in the economy, tourism, energy, public maritime goods, spatial planning, the Law on Construction, Environmental Protection, Nature Parks, and not to mention further, the law provides for the harmonisation of investments with spatial-planned documentation that was needed so far but with the possibility of State intervention to ensure investment. Of course, I hope that it will be safe with the agreement with local self-government, and in some ways this particular thesis should be strengthened. The possibility of solving certain issues of procedure within 30 days, and I would certainly like to believe that this will work. The law provides for a commission and then a task force that should ensure the team work of the county's body, the local self-government unit, depending on the location of the project. Until this reading is amended in Article 7 which defines the content of the project application has been amended in a way acceptable to foreign investors for reasons that some foreign companies that have just established their branch office in the Republic of Croatia will not be required to submit Bon1 or Bon 2 or Sol2 Bon plus, Article 8. Which defines the obligation to deliver copies from the criminal record, that is if it is verified and if possible since it has been deleted entirely I am not sure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It has been amended in a way that has defined the number and composition of the committee to assess the establishment of proposals for strategic projects. The variable members of the unit committee local and regional (regional) self-government are also defined. The Commission and the new working groups that should work on a joint acceleration of investments are correct if operational and not administration is ensured. The law has now simplified the submission of documentation that large investors need to add to the investment. But over time, it may be necessary to see how to additionally ensure that it is simple, of course, by respecting positive legal regulations. In our country of Croatia, there are large strategic investment projects run by state bodies or governments and ministries, which are structural projects of interest for the entire state of the road, airports, ports, railways, infrastructure companies, energy companies using goods owned by the state. But a large majority of the projects, as well as the entire investment cycle, are mostly happening in units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, and the requirements for such investments are often not so small or less important. This is about most investment requirements, which can generally provide the potential for a higher number of jobs. It's a fact for you, like that, that most people are employed in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This is what I wanted to say that cities and municipalities don't have tools that can provide potential investors with exactly what they want. And that's to solve everything in one place in the local self-government unit without long waits. Everything else when it comes to such projects and such investors is a service or background in which they do not want to waste their time and the assumed profit from investment. It is true that the leaders of local self-government units can now participate in strategic projects through the commission and operational groups. But who will agree between the units of local self-government and the authorities of the state administration and which is not a strategic project. Since many will be strategic projects for the local self-government unit. I want to believe that this will be possible without long waits and in agreement because the state of Croatia should be a strategic project and what is strategic for the local self-government unit. It is true as regards the right of the Government, it can now, and as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce points out in accordance with Article 3(3), Article 16 and Article 24 of the final proposal of the law, easier, easier to access possible exposure to property owned by the Republic of Croatia without public competition and that the Minister of Maritime Affairs can set the limit of maritime goods on its own and also in the award of concessions. However, it is important to mention forest land in state ownership, especially one where there is no forest and yet it is treated as a forest and is always located in a local self-government unit and it has never been used. Most of the investments set out in Article 5 of this Act should not be strictly understood because it will happen if local self-government units have requirements for multiple exceeding the investment amounts set or investments less than those provided for in this Article and are equally strategic for that local self-government unit. Given that investors, investors must address the central authority of the state administration responsible for the economy, so the Ministry of Economy is then imposed on the fact that a large part of investors who, with their requirements, appear at the site of investments in local self-government units must be directed towards state authorities. In this way we refer the potential investor from the investment site to the forest administration distributed by units of local self-government... agencies and ministries, and they are just expecting to create a business trust at the place of their investment, so a local self-government unit of importance and character, or category of investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Example of investment in local self-government units for which examples can be specifically cited... They usually appear from a million kunas to 50, 60 and 10 million euros and more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there was a need to provide spatial planning documentation for what was done. But that's not all, there remains a problem with centralisation of catastras, land, concession approvals, harmonising plans with major order plans without talking about the need to prove to the administration at a certain level that it is not competent to determine the eligibility of investments for a single unit of local self-government. This unit of local self-government determines by its overall development plan and investment investment plan and of course by means of a spatial plan. This Law should simplify this in terms of the government's relationship with units of local self-government in relation to a strategy that should be adopted. There is also a problem as part of spatial planning where the local self-government unit does not bring in appropriate planning documentation, which would place a different space in the function of the common good and often such plans are not adopted or adopted slowly and then wait for adoption as part of the larger order plans, for example. County. Well, it was nice to see you today, so for example. that in Split-Dalmatia County, however, hydroair transport will operate according to the islands. And here's an example. that the county spatial planning facility in the process of adopting a change in the spatial plan for the economic activity of the current Brodotrogir, so my unit of local self-government did not want to accept the decision of the representative body and the city to pass the investment has already advocated its own solutions. Even though it didn't get into their jurisdiction. Fortunately, with the help of the county leadership and the ministry, the process ended. So there is another problem and it concerns strategic partners already agreed on, with which strategic structural investors have already been agreed. For example. at the level of the Republic of Croatia for the area of water construction. Am I interested in whether they remain, in terms of already agreed and signed projects, still investors who need to address the state directly in terms of the need to expand and further invest? In fact, as things stand now, they become such investors that are already expanding, buying and investing in, therefore, additional and similar projects that are being attached to the existing ones. For example, shipbuilding, service and ports of nautical tourism, requirements for... For mega yachts and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I would have to say that there is no ideal law and that it is written as ideal people are always in charge of interpreting and implementing it, and then in certain cases it comes to a standstill. But the purpose of this law is to ensure faster and easier implementation of investments. And that's why I support him. It is a simple reason, the implementation of system reforms to respond to market requirements is a process that takes and costs and, of course, it is necessary. But we need jobs and economic growth in a hurry and I also want to believe that this law will help at least a little. Of course, if it's spent at the good will of all the participants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54088	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54089	Thank you very much. Comrade Rilje, your debate reminded me almost of the debate of fellow Caine who remembered somewhere near you. In fact, you have well assessed that this law centralises the decision to give an investment, i.e. large investments. In order to establish that the administration in local and regional self-government of the dispute is inefficient, inefficient, therefore the procedures are long-term, etc. So you finally said that you would accept this bill. So I don't understand, so you and the one who wrote this bill leave these very small investors, the small conditionally said up to 150 million kuna at the mercy and not the mercy of that particular administration. And so, in some ways, you're pleased that there will be a centralised procedure for large investors. So what about the small investors, what about the small entrepreneurs? But isn't that some kind of discrimination actually one distinction, a distinction of small and large entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54090	The answer to the replica Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54091	Dear colleague Grubisic, I agree with you in principle if this law is going to happen and I have just said in my debate that I hope that he will encourage the story that units of local self-government are all strategically, therefore the small one. So I figured this out, so this is the introduction of individual in terms of what would be a strategic investment, and I figured it out to say it loosely. Because let's say for example. to me is a strategic investment that will open, say, 10, 20, 50 and I don't know how many or 100 or 1000 jobs somewhere. I agree with you that it is mentioned here, but also...... Yeah, yeah, it's just that I'm also saying it's not 150 million terms. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no. ... And now look, I can look at it from the position of the sea but just as it's going to happen, more jobs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's such an example for stories that are stretched out, too stretchy, but the fact is that the story that holds water. I'm not saying that this is ideal, there's no ideal, that's what I said in my debate. So I wouldn't compare myself to anyone but myself. I'm not comparing you to anyone, so it's stupid, we have the same name, so me and my colleague Caine and that's it. But the fact is, he's advocating a part of it as well as you are advocating one part of which we come from, and all that does to the Republic of Croatia. So here's what I want in this loose story is exactly what we're talking about, and that's a strategy in which all the conditions where something is going to be an investment and where it's going to be seen as a strategic investment because it comes from a plan for the overall development of the unit of local self-government. It's brought by a city council, a representative body, and I don't think anyone can, and neither can the ministry, derogate what we'd say, and here I understand it through the number of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54092	Thank you. It's time for my colleague Dragutin's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54093	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. In an explanation of the adoption of this law, as well as the issue to be addressed, it states that the fundamental reason for the urgent launch of the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as the main driver of growth and development of the Croatian economy, and only the launch of the investment cycle and major projects can certainly have a positive impact on the overall investment climate and on greater investment in other projects. All agree that investments or investments, especially in production activities, agriculture, tourism, at the moment can only be a cornerstone of the economy and can only stop these indicators, which for the fifth year record trends and which do not yet show safe indications of a positive movement. Resolute officials of the European Union and the IMF warn, and recently also talk about the need for additional measures to stabilise the budget and finance and take measures to start the economy. It is certain that the proposed law is not the solution to the overall economic situation, but it can be a detail that will speed up investment. The law has the ambition to promote and help major investment of strategic importance for the state, but also to learn the whole administration how to function and according to projects that may not go on the strategic list. The law also has the ambition to create an opportunity to change the image of a country that has long followed us, which is that we are inefficient and insecure for foreign investors. In addition to a bad image, the promoter also warns of the slowness of the administration which the new law should change as officials become more responsible for the implementation of individual projects. As far as the smaller ones are concerned, so I would dare say middle investment projects, I will present my local environment experience where I can say in a longer period I have performed various executive and/or senior functions. We realized in that time about 20 projects in two economic zones. For this we have received recognition and resolutional ministries, I am particularly pleased to recognise the best unit of local self-government in attracting foreign investment. All depends on the organisation, jurisdiction, rights and obligations of all participants in the process from purchase, concession or land donation, from the adoption of the necessary detailed and spatial plans to the establishment of local or construction permits. It also plays a major role in institutions and businesses that issue various consents on municipal and other infrastructures, county and public administration offices. And if the investor, for his part, attaches orderly or valid documentation to the permit, it is issued to us within 15 days, counting on me to make a joke, both Saturdays and Sundays, and possibly a state and church holiday. But since the project is bigger and more demanding documentation, the expansion of a project on the surfaces of several units of local self-government may include part of the private part of state land. The problem may be with the roads, with energy, then there are insurmountable difficulties that can completely block the project or at least stretch it for a longer period of time. In fact, there should already be an expression of the Law on Strategic Investments, which should be one of the key arms of the Government, but also a unit of local self-government to be carried out as soon as possible in attracting investments. Otherwise, the law covers more than 150 million kuna investments, unless they are projects that will be co-financed by the European Union funds, as well as islands where these amounts are lower. We can ask ourselves why special aid for major projects? Because they are important for the state, which requires the development of specific plans, possible studies, employs a number of people, binds themselves and helps small and medium-sized entrepreneurs both in the construction and after the investment is completed. Such investments also require additional quality infrastructure from transport to municipal and energy that contributes to the development of this area. From the interpretation and explanation of the promoters it is evident that local and regional self-government is involved in the work of the commission and that through its municipal, urban and county spatial plans and normally detailed arrangements if they contribute or influence the procedure, the very process of issuing local permits. I will not specifically refer to certain articles of the law, because other than the reasons why it is adopted, the very explanation of the provisions of the final draft law, the necessary amendments in order to complete the legal text with the comments and proposals of the so far public and parliamentary debates, have been given in favour of the final draft of the law. This Law on Strategic Investment Projects with activities of the Chamber of Commerce, Economic diplomacy and government cooperation, in particular with units of local and regional self-government, should be an important instrument that will speed up the process of achieving public and private projects that are of less importance to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54094	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54095	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, in these late hours, and given the beginning of the debate, we've heard a lot today and it would be almost too much to say, and believe me, I've got a lot of things wrong with the initial idea of what I'm going to say and so on. But since I've been reported and maintained so far, I'm going to say what I wanted to say, which is that this government has realised from the first moment on that the investment cycle, the investment swing, as someone likes to say to the tsunami, is what Croatia needs in view of the situation that was encountered when the authorities took over. The former first, sorry not to forget it is very important, the first Deputy Prime Minister turned the investment cycle towards energy efficiency and the small and medium-sized economy, entrepreneurship. In fact, it is also a tendency in the EU to improve or increase energy efficiency and achieve results in small and medium-sized enterprises that would solve both unemployment and emerge from the crisis and recession. But out of this energy efficiency, the increase would actually be nothing, and little and medium-sized entrepreneurship here is only now after two years of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Strategy, small and medium-sized economy. This law being passed I would say by most of the usual emergency procedure in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia where over 60% of the legal proposals went according to an urgent procedure this law is adopted in two readings. But he's in his own nature. When I say it's a front, then it's a matter of him dictating as has already been said, the Law on the Maritime Goods and the Law on the Spatial Regulation which is here and on the construction by the Minister who is from the same party as the Minister of Economy and Vice-President of the Government. Then the Environmental Protection Act, and even in Article 18, is also a matter of procedure before courts where it states that the commission, or government or ministry, has the right to hasten the urgency of proceedings before Croatian courts, which is absurd, is indeed absurd. What is the objective of this legislative proposal? It clearly and loudly writes as many speakers and speakers have defended these large investments of more than 150 million kuna or those supported by EU aids of 75 million kuna or those on islands or areas of special state care of 20 million kuna. But I would thus not classify strategic investment, but rather I would just talk about it or at least try to figure out what a strategic investment is for Croatia, whether the Pelješac Bridge is a strategic investment. Is irrigation primarily in Slavonia also a strategic investment? We know that only one and a half percent of the area, agricultural areas are irrigated. Is the Danube Channel – Sava a strategic project? Is our wood industry that shouldn't be a forest economy that shouldn't export 90% of the troops abroad but should be the other way around, so we should export 90% of the final products, and only 10% of the troops are we in the Development Strategy? We don't know. I know it's all necessary, but it doesn't say anything. We don't have a strategy. Is it possible that the textile industry that died and had a tradition? Or the metal industry Đuro Djakovic etc. Is that strategic? No, I don't. What's strategic is what's worth exactly as much as it is worth and how much is an investment of 150 million kuna, so whatever it is, even if it's done on the island, I don't know the airport that's on Iž. That's what if it costs 150 million kuna, it's a strategic investment. That's how it works out under this law. Anything I don't say nonsense that falls to someone, but well 150 million isn't stupidity in my mind and anywhere to make, either in the forest area, or in the sea belt, in the marine good, it's all strategic if it's worth 150 million kuna. So it's about the concept of strategically, what it's strategic for the Republic of Croatia, which is worth to the Republic of Croatia no matter how much it costs. Sometimes as my colleague from my Bubalo party said and an investment of 50 or 100 million kuna if he employs 1,000 workers in the textile industry, for example, means strategic investment. I wouldn't share investments like that on those up to 150 million and those under 150 million, excuse me, and over 150 million kuna. About the very articles of this bill, about the 99-year concession, which is so I won't say that I don't insult the motionary, that they're three generations of people. So remember who lived in 1914, more Radić brothers, etc. And who is it now, so let's just imagine who it is and what it was 99 years ago? It was the beginning of World War I, the murder of Francis Ferdinand, the second state completely. Who knows what will happen in 99 years and what will happen in the Republic of Croatia and with the Republic of Croatia. So that's an absurd figure, a concession for 99 years. Furthermore, we see that the SDP has also offered amendments to the law they themselves propose. So what does that mean? And on Article 8, because they realized that they could and not have the commission, the government, so that relations were unresolved. So the law isn't written exactly, it's not written properly. Now let me say some nomotechnically arranged, let it be and so be it, but the government itself, or one coalition of parties in the government, is writing an amendment. What else might the government write an amendment to its own law? I don't know, we'll see when the minister gets back and he hears all these remarks we made here today if it's well passed on to him. Article 16 does not even need to be discussed. He says that the real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia necessary for the implementation of the strategic project is available without public competition or without public collection of offers of market value according to the assessment of the authorised court expert. So, you totally get exactly as we talked about here derivating and not saying to discriminate on all the previous laws that we've passed here and with a lot of discussion, with a great deal here not to say I'm not going to tell the argument but the dissonance in opinions and we've had long, long-term debates about all these laws. And the Law of Construction, and the Law of the Sea, and all things that we have debated here, we have passed 14 such laws, that one of these articles may be annulled in this law. It is good for counterpart Klaric from HDZ because Klarin and Klaric have noticed that Article 27 should write, that this article should be written in such a way that the words are not left out. Therefore, the provisions of the regulations in the administrative area of spatial regulation shall apply to the issue of the authorisation of Article 26(1) of this Law. What does that mean? If not applicable, the spatial plans shall not apply. For such investments, the spatial plan does not apply if there is no word left. And then we compete here all the time and talk about respecting spatial plans. But Article 27 says they don't respect each other. It is true that they are disrespected because it says in Article 27 loud and clear. About the protection of the environment and nature and about the ecological to say, that is, associations that really have numerous observations on almost all major or small investment projects. From OMBLA I don't even know PLOMINA C to the smallest projects in Croatia. So, you should think carefully and indeed this deadline of these 15 days plus possibly the other 15 would be satisfactory because constantly defending projects in environmental reasons, the reasons for environmental and nature protection should be seen as far as it goes because if it stops projects and investments then sometimes I think it's too much like the excessive and afternoon holiday of crabs or I don't know whether I don't know what's going on in our country. What is why the plan for increased investment in the Republic of Croatia or increased investments in the Republic of Croatia has not been so terrible. It's not shrimp, it's not ecology, it's not that, it's a matter of insecure tax policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54096	Thank you very much. Replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54097	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague, only two things, could have gotten more out of your exposure. You say everything that's strategic if it's forest or maritime and it's worth more than 150 million, it goes into strategic investment. That's not true. Therefore, anything in the spatial plans of the county, i.e. the unit of local self-government, can be strategic but it is certain that one who wants to enter the strategic investment project according to all these notes and the requirements that must be delivered must have and most of the country purchased and only then comes to purchase a possible forest area which local self-government has defined to be in the building or tourist or x area and the competition itself would cause naturally competition which would not know 100 squares or 1 hectare bought at a higher price and essentially block investment and further development. And what you're saying in article 27 is that a plan of spatial arrangement is delegating isn't. It clearly says here that no urban planning should be developed and a detailed plan of arrangements but a spatial plan must be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54098	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54099	My colleague Gjurkovic, I put you in the woods as ministers in the government. So what's strategically written in this law. We're discussing him today, which is strategic for the County of Brod-Posavina, that's another thing. So here we are discussing strategic projects important for the Republic of Croatia and it is clearly and loudly written and I would not discuss whether a strategic project for Brod-Posavina County does not know how to build a new shooting home or High School in Slavonski Brod or Veleučišče in Slavonski Brod, somewhere else. Today we are discussing what is written here, as well as the law in Article 27. The laws do not apply the provisions of the regulations of the administrative... spatial arrangement. He writes loud and clear if we can read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54100	Damir Rilje replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54101	Comrade Grubisic, let's... let's just continue for a second. It's not like this I can turn... upside down I said I wanted and believe that what is only local self-government strategically that it will be accepted as strategic. Now, the number of jobs, don't you think there can be 10 employees and 20 million euros in investment? I think so. So the fact is, I can see things that way. What does that mean? It means that this whole law is also passed for greater investment and greater employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54102	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54103	I'm glad to hear from you, namely you tell me what's strategic and I agree with you that it's strategic and that as many people as possible are employed but it's not absolutely the subject of this bill. So it is not the subject of this final proposal of the Strategic Investment Act in Split, here is to say the nursing home in Split even though it will employ 20 nurses of medical, care professionals, heads, secretaries, cooks, etc. But it's not a strategic investment because it's not worth 150 million kuna. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54104	And finally Vice President Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54105	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia is before us. Like any law, any decision we make should be put in the context of time and space and why it is made and what it is intended to do. I will refer in my presentation and to certain discussions that were during and in the morning and now in the afternoon and I will start from some of what is strategic, it is a key issue and topic and has caused a lot of debate and discussion. We should also remember a certain period of time, about 20 years ago, and I am asking myself today why Croatia does not have one general development strategy, why there is no sectoral strategy. So perhaps this debate on this final bill would be less questionable why would the Government be the one to declare certain projects strategic. This law should first and foremost be seen as an instrument that will allow for a rapid procedure in the establishment of permits, so it is not accepted as such, saying you did not create a good entrepreneurial climate, you did not launch structural reforms. If you'd done it then you shouldn't have passed this law. Yes, I agree completely with the debate. But who? I know very well that I've been doing two audits at the local level of my city's development strategies and I know very well the procedure for a small local community that it takes more than a year not only procedurally but also a methodologically one quality SWOT analysis precedes all this together. In order for the SWOT analysis to be done for the Republic of Croatia, which would be the basis for automation and sectoral strategies, gentlemen, for a year I don't know who can convince me who's more professional in this, but from my own experience, it's simply impossible. But from this debate that was today we got one core of SWOT analysis of the initial core. And all we've heard is that I don't say structural reforms, not to say about derogating laws, not to say that it reduces the competence of units of local and regional self-government, the question is how we want to read the legal proposal. Do we want to read it if this law is literally a technicality. There have been comments that the elements are even though I do not think the law should be compared to the rules, as if the rules were a procedural, but it defines to the last borders and certain procedures. Why? When a legal proposal is passed and there are no operational elements in it, then we speak a dead letter on paper. When the procedure is prescribed in detail, then we say it's a procedure or a rulebook. I'm always as an operative as a practitioner. I'm always for this kind of approach. Of course, not every topic can be handled in such a way that some legal proposals might be like material for a session of the Assembly of Fat. What also caused a lot of debates about negativity I wouldn't want to be maybe even go extreme, unfortunately it's our daily routine. This law was firstly adopted for both the initiative and the actions of the opposition. Let's remember certain discussions within a year, a year and a half. In contact with entrepreneurs, with employers, with interesting groups. There are difficulties in communication with the public administration, we can't get to construction, we can't get there, spatial plans aren't updated, etc. So it's a series of interferences. This law is on the trail right now. Strategy. So here we are today, now we're going to have one strategy that gives a small segment that is extremely important. But I'm also repeating the question, and now I'm going to repeat it to my colleagues on the right, gentlemen, for 20 years, why didn't you bring the strategy? Why? It's not simple, I agree, it's not simple. There were certain plans, action plans, such as or such, but one whole substance was not defined. What I would also like to look at in a nutshell and some articles, Article 16 subtitles about the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. Well, I would be extremely happy if this law had been passed in 2006 or 2007. In such but with that purpose, with that theme. At that time, he would not have as head of local self-government investment problems in his area. I wouldn't have a problem. The investment would be realistic from the idea, from updating spatial plans ready for, let's say conditionally, optimally a year. This is how it lasted for three years. It took three years. Article 16 of course, as far as the property is concerned, I agree, should be sensitised for the subject but simply more for the reason someone is burned, then also for the cold smoke. And that's why I understand the debates of some colleagues. However, Article 17 will literally read it: "The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia prior to the conclusion of a contract on the transfer of ownership rights, the establishment of the right... and the establishment of the right of service referred to in Article 16(2) to (6) of this Act gives an opinion on their legal validity.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It gives its opinion on legal validity. Furthermore, Article 18, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was the same subject or suggestion, but I believe and I went literally to read it and ask for an opinion because certain people of the legal profession, our colleagues said that, in some ways, I will not say... but suggesting a judicial authority that some processes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'll read it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "The government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the central authority responsible for the judiciary, determines the need for urgent action in a certain administrative or judicial procedure necessary for the implementation of the strategic project.". The key word is to determine the need for urgent treatment. It means reference to procedure. So government, I read it that way defines what's important, what are strategic projects. And if there's a problem somewhere, it's referred to an emergency procedure. So it's not an influence on the third pillar of power, you have to go through the emergency procedure. Reference to the urgency of the procedure. That's how I read it. What I'd like to do about the local self-government unit. Of course, this is a good way for me to think that both local and regional self-government leaders are involved in the commission and give an opinion. But it's also a political body, and I don't think anyone in this assembly would allow them at all, even if there were debates, and in the opposite way, they wouldn't allow themselves personal authority if he was elected by citizens to work against the interests of citizens. It's just political suicide. It's political suicide. It's not the only motive, but in certain and certain people, it can be extremely important. There's been a lot of talk about the entrepreneurship climate. I agree that certain procedures and can, in some ways, draw the investor away but we should also put in context certain government decisions and tax policies, in the context of time and space and situations in the state side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54106	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First honorary colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Vice President Batinic said a few things to look back on. First, he said that there were no strategies of previous years, or 20 years ago, which is not true. Simply with the first session of the multi-party parliament, a strategy was defined how to get out of the communist system and from Yugoslavia and the procedures that should be achieved. On the other hand, reports on the state of the nation every year with the Government's tasks for the current and next year respectively. However, I would like to say more here, you yourself said that this Law is more like a Rules of Procedure. And that's right. I'm sorry, you used a similar word, or that, I think you even said that as an operative, someone who deals with operational affairs is responding and that you think it's a good thing. However, the problem, in my opinion, is exactly one flaw because it is about the lack of a strategy and this law is forcing the ministries and certain parts of the state administration to cooperate with each other. And as such, this law is actually the necessity of this government to force ministers to cooperate with each other. Instead of such a provision on forms of cooperation between the elements, all segments of the state administration are defined for all matters the Government is dealing with, and then there would be no Law on strategies from different areas, and I agree that we do not have such strategies. We even have a national development strategy or national security strategy from 2001 which is still at the level that we need to join the European Union and NATO which is not even updated, then you can think of the state it is in at all and how it is run by this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54108	Thank you. Replica response, Vice-President of the House Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, there were a few, so here's what I'm going to do if I'm going to skip, I hope I'm going to cover everything. The strategy, the topic is the economy, I'm not talking about other strategies. We have no economic development strategy in the Republic of Croatia accompanied by sectoral strategies, no, give me that document. I was looking, he's gone. Maybe there is, a fellow Shucker climate to have. I didn't call him a protégé or a rulebook, I was quoting some colleagues and colleagues who said he had the elements, yes, but it's the law. Why did the government decide to pass the law? Well, he's doing the surgery right now because that rule book was passed, probie. The same would be done, but the law itself knows that it has far more weight than the rule itself, and the rule can be passed under a certain law. As far as strategic documents are concerned, the strategy is a dynamic document according to its methodology. If there are certain strategies my colleague Shucker will tell me, then they definitely don't fit right now, they're not up to date. I just asked in a meeting with the wood industry cluster if you gentlemen have a strategy. Well, we do, the government brought something in 2008 or 2007, if it fits the current state, says no. It's just okay. The strategy is also a very broad framework, but we have not defined what we want, how we want and what we think we can develop in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54110	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54111	Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, therefore there is a Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia I think it was 2006-2013, but at the end of 2008, when the economic crisis began, this strategy completely lost its meaning because it was not, I'm just telling you. Look, don't, let me say it all the way and then. So, according to that strategy, and that is true, we would be in surplus by 2009, if it had continued with economic growth, but instead of that strategy, an economic recovery programme was adopted with short-term and long-term measures in which this is exactly what you were talking about, starting with structural reforms, from strengthening the administration and precisely by each sector to say, from the economy through education, science, state administration, short-term and long-term measures to be done. This economic recovery programme in 2011 in two quarters gave economic growth and what I keep saying, you might be better off relying on that economic recovery programme in the first year of your term until, according to your own opinion, you record what the situation is and do not decide what you will do. No, you've cut some loose. Today we have macroeconomic indicators like we have, but the economic recovery program practically fits some kind of mini strategy because inside you'll find, as soon as you have short-term measures with precisely defined deadlines when and how you need to do them and who needs to implement them, who's in charge of it. Also, if you have these long-term measures, then the document that came into existence in times of crisis for practically immediate halting of negative economic trends has a... sense of strategy. Because you at these moments from the fact that your stock market practically dropped every second, third day, that it was practically impossible to be in debt, until every day so much and so many businesses were closing down you couldn't even do some kind of strategy. Thus, the economic recovery programme is the last operational programme to be called the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54112	The replica corresponds to the respected Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Shuker, thank you for reminding me. I agree, however, we either have a strategy or we don't. This is that interspace is filled with something at the level of the action plan, but I say we have definitely not defined Croatia as the country in which we want it to go since the founding of the Croatian state. Whether it'll be a country of supply chains, shopping malls, which industry we're going to develop, in which direction it's going to be a natural thing that some things aren't easy to do, especially a strategy that respects the environment in which they are. Did we predict what would happen to certain sectors then, today just as it happens, we knew, you led a part of the portfolio by entering the European Union, which will then happen. It means whether or not we were able to prevent some things, but I'm saying the general strategic document is gone. I know that he can't define and it's not the point that here was also discussed, why some strategic project in this law doesn't have a name and name. Well, it just can't be. Tomorrow someone can show up, I have an idea, I have a location, where they'll call first, they'll report to local self-government, where that land is located, terrain, etc. I've also had experience communicating with potential investors, but what was extremely important to them? I agree with tax policy, yes. It was important to them which benefits can be expected, not only at local level but also at national level. And you know what they told me, so you don't know where you're going. I said how, I know. Here is the development strategy, we have defined the spatial-planned documents that we want industry, what industry we want, says at the level of Croatia you have scattered, each ministry has its own strategy that is not at all united and connected. That's what I'm talking about, fellow Shucker. This may sound like a criticism, but I'm simply stating the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54114	Thank you. Time. Third replica, the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54115	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Batinić. You've been mayor for many years and this experience of yours that you said that, justifiably, the problems after a few years of obtaining a building permit is correct and certain that in that sense you need to do something about supporting that we need to find a way. But you also know as mayor that usually individuals come and look for places that aren't in spatial plans. We in Split-Dalmatia County have 30 tourist zones, we have hundreds of hectares of entrepreneurial zones. But they're not going to invest here, they're looking for somewhere else. And that's why the danger of this law is that we are losing 100 meters from the sea here. Because if he says he's strategically important to him, then we'll give him that. We need to define the places we're strategically guarding. If we don't have a strategy of state and local, we have spatial plans of county and that's some kind of strategy and that says what this unit of regional administration, where it sees development. And somewhere someone remembers. I was told by the Norwegian ambassador that you were slow, that you failed to resolve it, that you changed the plan. And I'm asking him, if you're in some fjord, now I want to invest how many years I should be able to invest there. So we have to watch out for that, too. Let's not underestimate those sleeping crabs either, because we can bring a situation where there will be no more cancers of various species. Someone wants to invest in the most beautiful oak forest, and now we're gonna say yes to that. And why are you here? So put it somewhere else. That's what our spatial plans are for. And there's the danger of this law, that we just let everyone here, here's what you want, just put it in. We must have our instruments of protection, too. And this 99 years. So think about what an investment that lasts 99 years to get back. These are issues that should be understood when we pass a law like this that we think about and that we're not just going to give an investment, so everything else doesn't matter. Because what we're doing and what we're doing has its weight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54116	Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what you have experience as a longtime mayor. Namely, what is it? We come back again when you say we have business zones, free, entrepreneurial, and he doesn't want to invest, he wants to go elsewhere. The capital has its logic. What's the logic of that moment, that year, that month we don't know. So someone has to come, the investor has to come. I want to invest here and here. If this is compatible, or if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, if it matches the spatial plans in line. If not, maybe you and I, maybe we misjudged the area. We may have gone after some inert or something already fixed, which spatial plan and that's where we just kept building. But it's usually said about yourself that you have to ask someone else. I'm saying, I've had a lot of contacts with potential investors, but no one has objected to what we've offered him, but he hasn't looked elsewhere. And why didn't he come? Well, there's been a series of circumstances. Maybe someone else came. But what's the point? The bottom line is when we do not have a clearly defined strategy in which direction, especially for this law, are key sectoral strategies. Then it's a matter and of course it's then an assessment of the government, a commission which is a strategic investment. That doesn't mean that the spatial plans in the stone are carved. Well, of course the spatial plans are prone to change. And I, as mayor, would have said what I was saying in the opening statement, was happy that in 2006, in 2007, someone would have come to my own expense to change spatial plans and give maximum support to make a project happen. So the question is, if we want something, we'll find a way, if we don't want a reason, we can invent a thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54118	And the last replica of my colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54119	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Batinić, you've made a good point, the good characteristics of this law, but I must admit there's another important element of this law. It is called transparency, which is also written in the law, i.e. in the introduction, and the minister pointed it out, and that is that there is no hidden game here. There's nothing going on out there, so something happened, so we'll have a problem after that. This is apart from the important thing, which is that it must be that it is not possible to gain an investment that has not been determined and envisaged by spatial order documents, I am talking about private investors. Secondly, all decisions are public, all decisions are transparent, all decisions are so that the arguments must be clear, so that everyone knows why it became a strategic investment. And finally, in essence, this Strategic Investment Act is not the Act on the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia. He only implements local spatial plans of the local strategy and speeds up all procedures and creates preconditions for increasing investment and climate and development in the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54120	And the last answer to Milorad Batinic's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, if I understand your replica correctly, has in some ways alluded to the part of the debate on non-transparentity, i.e. that certain strategic projects in part are excluded from public procurement procedures. I don't see a problem here, just for this very reason you're here. But hypothetically. One example appears to be an investor, a location, a state-owned land, so local self-government should not be involved in the purchase of private, etc. In synergy with the government, do something. And now you're going to public procurement. And now that two investors who want two strategic projects to work in that location are independent, both of them are strategic then I believe, it's not written in the law that, of course, I would do so, I would call a public tender because both projects are strategic. But if there's no interest in that location, it's 5, 10, 15 ha, but only one, and you're holding it like a little bit of water on your palm to make something go away, so I don't see the need for the public. Because there's a court expert, there's a state's attorney behind it. Do you have so many doubts? Well, I mean, we always use whether the Constitution, if any other law when it suits us, and when it doesn't suit us in practice, we don't even implement it. Unfortunately, we witnessed in previous years that they were not only playing laws but procedures. This government is definitely doing what it does is transparency and it's a complete insight into everything. Previous governments have worked, however, not at such a level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54122	We've exhausted a list of registered speakers for this agenda point. The proposer's representative refuses to take the floor in a final manner, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54123	Final draft law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 420. The debate on the text of the law is closed. The amendments have been made. We've got a plate, so let's get it straight. Representative for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Minister of Economy Alen Leveric. Amendment number one of MPs Peter Baranovic's respected deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54124	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54125	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 is also a respected representative of Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54126	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54127	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 3. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54128	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54129	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Five, same club reps.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54130	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54131	Thank you very much. It also becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six of the SDP Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54132	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54133	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 7. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54134	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54135	Thank you very much. Good to see you, too. Amendment number 8. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54136	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54137	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number nine of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54138	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54139	It's also becoming an integral part. And Amendment 10. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54140	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54141	Thank you very much. And Amendment number 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54142	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54143	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 12. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54144	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54145	Thank you very much. It's also becoming an integral part. Amendment number 13. Honored representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54146	The amendment to Article 16 is not accepted on the grounds that Article 16(3) does not prescribe anything already prescribed by another regulation, or the Law on Forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54147	There's no honorary representative. We must declare who is for the amendment of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment 14. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54148	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54149	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 15 of the respected MP Tomislav Klaric, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54150	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 21 provides that the maximum period of time to which a concession of 99 years can be granted is therefore not the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54151	We must vote on the amendment number of the 15th Honored Representative Tomislav Klaric, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 16. Also respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54152	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because Article 23(1) already provides that other rules governing those issues are also applicable to the setting of maritime goods limits, so that the proposed regulation also covers the proposed regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54153	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement about amendment number 16 that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 17. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54154	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54155	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 18 of Honored Representative Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54156	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant considers that the above-mentioned addition of the article would further extend the procedure for the establishment of the necessary documentation for the preparation and implementation of projects declared of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. We point out once again that representatives of local and regional self-government units are involved in making decisions on a strategic investment project through the Commission and through an operational group for each individual project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54157	Please show the applicant for the amendment to the respected representative, Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54158	The IDS absolutely supports investment, but we support investments under clear and sustainable rules, rules that we want to protect and our most valuable resources. And that is why we believe that the local community must absolutely be involved in the decision-making process and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54159	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number 18 of Honored Representative Giovanni Sponze who is not accepted by the government. Please, who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 19th Honored Representative Tomislav Klaric. Your Honor, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54160	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54161	Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54162	It is not accepted because the said provision excludes the local community, because in order to issue a local authorisation for a certain operation, it must be planned by a spatial plan of a wider area than that covered by the UP and DPU, which in most cases is precisely local government, city, municipal, county.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54163	Please state the amendment number 19 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. And finally Amendment 20. Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54164	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54165	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54168	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Proposal for a Strategy for the Development of Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2020; The Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, and you received reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Drazen Pross, deputy minister of entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You have before you a proposal for a strategy for entrepreneurship development in 2013-2020, i.e. the first ever National Small Economy Development Strategy. The strategy has been prepared and carried out at the time of small economy targeting GDP growth per capita, i.e. at a time when not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in other EU countries, austerity measures are implemented to control public finances deficits and respond to a global economic crisis. And of course, such a macroeconomic environment also has an important impact on the small economy sector in Croatia. And that is why there is an even greater need for a strategic approach to the development of this segment of the economy which, of course, strengthens and enhances its competitiveness, which is in fact the general objective of this strategy. The basis for the development strategy for entrepreneurship 2013-2020 is an analysis of the small economy sector developed by the Economic Institute as well as the Report of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Observatory in Croatia. These are documents made in June and July 2012. And, of course, with the work of an inter-resor working group on the development of a strategy within one EU project, there have also been five forums of public-private dialogue in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod and Dubrovnik, where small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, representatives of entrepreneurial support institutions, so units and local, regional self-government, chambers and institutions that are linked to a small economy. All relevant elements of this strategy, therefore socio-economic analysis and SWOT analysis as well as the definition of all priorities and intervention areas are very closely analysed both internally and externally within all dialogues and discussions. And I must say that the preparation of this proposal was indeed fully open and included the really widest possible number of interested parties. It should also be noted that the preparation of the strategy proposal ensures compliance with EU rules. This means, therefore, that, in addition to compliance with national strategic documents, the alignment of the strategy with EU strategic documents such as the European Small Economy Act and the 20-20 Action Plan for Entrepreneurship Development has been carried out. Realising the overall objective of this strategy is strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy will be implemented by those measures concerning the five strategic objectives. Therefore, improving economic performance, improving access to finance, promoting entrepreneurship, improving entrepreneurship skills and improving the entrepreneurship environment. However, allow me to give a brief overview of each individual target with its target values and concrete indicators for monitoring each of these targets in the small economy at the end of 2011. Because the fact is that the current small economy policy in the Republic of Croatia has not actually changed significantly in those eight years. Therefore, development and development policies were not sufficiently based on systematic data collection and analysis. There was also no complete assessment of the impact of the instruments of that policy, and also, that is, there was no element of monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness. There was neither control nor control in the implementation of certain instruments and of course measures. Some of the relevant definitions of the founding situation in the small economy, so at the end of 2011, these are facts in the Republic of Croatia, so around 170,000 small economy entities operate. Of course, of the total number of business entities, that's 99.7%. Micro-entrepreneurs account for 92.2%, small 6.3%, mean 1.2%. So almost this relationship is the same as in the EU where the percentage of small-economic operators is 99.8%. The share of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in GDP in Croatia is 51.6%, therefore in 2011. 52% of small and medium-sized enterprises operate within the service sector, so for countries with a small domestic market, it is actually important to process the industry because it is the main source and exports, and that is why the small economy segment should be directed towards promoting exports and increasing it. 13% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs operate in the manufacturing sector and it should be said that 28% of all employees are employed there. The small and medium-sized business sector has 71.5% of total employees, micro-enterprises employ 30% of the total number of employees, so small companies are important for job creation. In 2011, there was a decrease in the small economy sector by 2.6%. Perhaps some other data that are an interesting share of investment in research and development financed from the private sector is 0.34 so the EU average is significantly higher 1.26. When we talk about innovation which is a very important part and this strategy in Croatia is 8% lower than the EU average. In a report on Croatia's global competitiveness, it showed in 2011 that Croatia was 105th place out of 144th in view of funding through the local capital market, 112th place according to the availability of risk capital, microfinance is very limited and according to the 2011 Global Competitiveness Report. Croatia was 94th out of 144 countries in view of cluster development. Why do you need a strategy... a small economy? A systematic approach and the definition of objectives is needed in order to address the problems encountered systematically. So in terms of both default and national but also in the European context and in the long term. The small economy is crucial for economic growth and employment in both the EU and Croatia, and therefore the very smart and systematic orientation of small economy development is important for the general competitiveness of the country. It is crucial to define and target the instruments set carefully on the basis of the defined objectives, and therefore we need to have a very good strategy. In this strategy we have very clearly and very precisely defined and quantified what we want to achieve. So the overall objective of the strategy is to increase the competitiveness of the small economy in Croatia, and when we determine the overall value target of this strategy, it is to increase the gross added value of small and medium-sized enterprises per employee by 40%. So if that's 16,366 euros in 2012 then that goal is 22,900 euros per employee in 2020. Here's something more detailed about the strategic objectives themselves. The first strategic goal is to improve economic performance, hence improving the economic performance of the small economy in the sectors, and above all, we said to producers and service activities, and to increase investment in research and development through higher levels of innovation, export growth and further strengthening of business networks and links between others and clusters. The target is to increase the small economy's share of GDP by 10%, so if we talk about the initial value and the share of small and medium-sized enterprises in GDP today 51.6% to 62% in 2020. Of course, the key measures to achieve this goal will be, above all, the modernisation and innovation of equipment facilities and the introduction of new standards and quality systems in business and investment in ICT technology in the business process, of course, the internationalisation of business, the development of clusters, the development and strengthening of entrepreneurship support institutions that today have 88 in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, even stronger the establishment and quality of relations between the private sector and higher education institutions and public research organisations to strengthen competitiveness. As regards the second very significant strategic objective, an improved approach to funding is therefore the development of different financial opportunities for small economy entities and the removal of this small economy financial facility. Thus, the value of increasing the supply of small economy funding by 40%, so if in these initial values that total bank placement in 2010 was around 275 billion kuna of which 109 billion pardons, then somewhere around 40% of the economy was placed in 2010. And now that we're talking about monitoring indicators, that's one starting value in 2010 by small and micro-entrepreneurs with a total loan portfolio, so about 8% more than 22.5 billion kuna, the 2010 target value for 2020 is 12% of the participation of micro and small entrepreneurs in the credit portfolio, so something over 30 billion kuna. Another indicator is the percentage of the other financial instruments, so when we talk about risk capital and when we have somewhere in that initial value in 2010 500 million capital of risk capital or slightly less than 50 million kuna from business angels, then that goal for 2020 is to increase the share of other financial instruments somewhere over 4 billion kuna as regards risk capital over 500 million kuna in business angels. And yet some key measures to implement this objective are certainly to improve the offer of microcredit especially for beginner entrepreneurs, to develop some new forms of funding as well as to develop the capacity of entrepreneurs to prepare and manage projects, especially those that have the support of structural funds. The third objective is to promote entrepreneurship in particular to strengthen support, to create new businesses as well as to increase the number of active enterprises and to strengthen entrepreneurship support institutions in order to contribute to the development of Croatian regions in a single and balanced manner. So there's a very precise target value, an increase in the number of entrepreneurially active people to more than 8. So measured by the TEA index total entrepreneurial activity index, which is thus 7.32% in 2011. And in this way, Croatia is practically being counted into countries with a lower level of activity in the launch of business ventures. And yet the key measures to achieve this strategic goal will also be to encourage the creation of new businesses as well as initiatives to change attitudes towards entrepreneurship, to support the start-ups and to strengthen the support of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship education as well as further improve the supply of entrepreneurship infrastructure. The fourth strategic goal is to improve entrepreneurship skills. Therefore, providing support to a greater number of small-scale operators, strengthening their administrations, introducing and operating a higher number of highly qualified employees and, of course, strengthening the lifelong learning of all employees in small-scale operators. And here there is a very clear target value of the strategic goal that is to improve the knowledge and competence of entrepreneurs and their employees by 10%, i.e. the growth of the number of scientists employed in entrepreneurship by 35%. Because once again the initial values are 2.3% of the workforce in education is the target value, so 10, reaching 10% of the workforce in education. Also when we talk about the initial value of 19% of scientists who are currently employed in entrepreneurship, our goal is 30% of scientists employed in entrepreneurship in 2020. Measures to implement, above all, modernising business through training for entrepreneurs, supporting the improvement of professional competences for entrepreneurs, developing new models of approach to the adoption of best management practices. And at all one support for the development of general awareness of the need for education and training. The fifth strategic goal is to improve the business environment, thus upgrading progress achieved, removing all remaining administrative burdens, facilitating business in Croatia. And the target is the value here of raising Croatia in the first 50 countries on the World Bank report list does bussines during the duration of this strategy. So that initial value is 84 place on the list of do bussines of 185 countries and the goal is one position in the first 50. Moreover, measures to achieve this objective are related to the simplification of the establishment of new companies, the adoption of the regulatory impact assessment process and the reduction and time and improvement of the conditions for payment of debts in bankruptcy proceedings and simplification, the reduction of costs in the settlement of trade disputes by legal means in the case of transfer, registration of assets, etc. And of course, among other things, support for ministries and public bodies in the implementation and public procurement procedures aimed at relieving the small economy to participate in public sector contracts. What is particularly important in this Strategy and significant therefore one new element introduced here is the monitoring and evaluation of those objectives of the strategy. When we talk about monitoring the management of small and medium-sized enterprises at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, it is also responsible for monitoring the implementation and organisation of the evaluation of the strategy, so data collection, drawing up annual reports. In addition, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts shall establish a monitoring committee whose role is to approve the report on this monitoring and evaluation and the committee shall have representatives of all resolution ministries and agencies whose decisions therefore affect the small economy and which, of course, have been consulted in all stages of the preparation of this Strategy. These are also the Croatian Chamber of crafts and Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives and HUP and the National Council for Competitiveness and HZZ and HAMAG Investment, of course the AIK and the Economic Institute. The Committee is also responsible for the accuracy of information but also for establishing synergies between the entrepreneurship development strategy 2013, 2020 and the strategies of other ministries and agencies. When we talk about evaluation, we have on one side the previous evaluations carried out by the evolutions of the Zagreb Economic Institute and which therefore recommended all these 42 recommendations were included in this document and this evaluation was carried out on the following principles which may well be mentioned once again. So integrity, independence, credibility, transparency of the process of developing the Strategy, participation of all key stakeholders and usefulness of the results of the evaluation and of course timely information about the process. And the ex post evaluation to be carried out in January and February 2021 following the completion of the programming-strategic period, which will again allow the results of the evaluation of this Strategy to be taken into account when preparing the next strategy. So we're going to have one insight into all the positive and negative aspects of every measure and instrument, and we're going to be able to work them out and adjust them to make the best use of the function of meeting all these objectives. And let me also say that this entrepreneurship development strategy provides, in fact, a framework for further implementation of the programmes and projects that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts is already developing, already being implemented. Therefore, the plan or programme to promote the development of a small economy, i.e. the entrepreneurial impulse for 2012, 2013 which is in one total amount and over two years over a billion kuna, has been implemented, with of course significantly more demanding conditions and criteria for granting support and guarantees, but what I particularly point out with one significant control and control of the dedicated spending. The Small Economy Investment Encouragement Act, thus far in 2013 alone, has received exactly 162 applications with investments worth nearly 7 billion kuna, 6.9 billion kuna. The HBOR also approved 10.2 billion kuna in 2012 more than it was in 2011 and there was one, which is the important change in the structure of the investment loan compared to the credits for the craft. HAMAG Invest with 315 million kuna approved guarantees in 2012, so 2.5 times more than in 2011, i.e. if we observe the data in 2013 it is therefore 365 million kunas of approved guarantees that will start investments that are greater than 1.3 billion. Since October last year until today, nearly 8,000 simple D.O.V.s have been opened. When it comes to the use of EU funds for the purpose of achieving the objectives, I must say that by the end of 2013, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts will have and will soon announce these two grants schemes totalling 33.3m euros. Thus, the programme is also under way, in fact one programming process for the 2014-2020 programming period, on which around a billion euros will be available to the Croatian small economy, and of course all of these measures listed in this entrepreneurship development strategy will be financed. Perhaps once again put emphasis on financial instruments as a new form of funding, in fact co-financing by European funds. When we talk about the strategy of women's entrepreneurship, we must say that it is included in this strategy, although we will actually have the end of this year's Women's Entrepreneurship Development Strategy 2010-2013 and is in preparation for a new Women's Entrepreneurship Strategy 2014-2020. Dear MPs and MPs, allow me in the end to just say that I am sure that we all support together the next vision of the Croatian small economy. So a competitive and evenly developed small economy based on a growing number of successful business entities, a continuous increase in exports, a high degree of innovation, a quality educational flexible management, an innovative production process, a favourable business environment and, of course, easier access to financial and other instruments, and in order to maintain favourable growth rates and, of course, reach the highest EU standards. In order to achieve this vision, this strategy should be implemented, the entrepreneurship development strategy 2013-2020. I invite you to accept it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54170	Thank you, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. The first club of Independent Representatives, Damir Cain. He's gone. The club's losing the right to discuss this. Croatian Labour Club, Nancy Tyrelli. She's gone. The club's losing the right to discuss this. SDSS Club, dear Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54171	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the ministry. We always swear every little bit that entrepreneurship is our main thing, that the economy is our main thing, and then we bring a strategy like Mr. Assistant Minister, or Deputy Minister, for the first time, we bring our first national strategy to the development of entrepreneurship and we do it at such a late hour when the absolute public is uninterested, or not available to the public to hear these discussions and we bring it before us to a few MPs. So this is the kind of thing that should be thought about anyway. In any case, the strategy is something that is a very respectable thing, and when a strategy is adopted then various debates are opened, opinions are heard, various projections of a particular problem are heard. That's probably how it was supposed to be tonight. A small economy is something for us to pesoriously say to the deliverer from this situation, so where people are due to privatisation flows or some other circumstances driven into the streets there should be a small economy, a flexible economy or a small entrepreneurship, a flexible entrepreneurship and absorbing all this excess labour force. That is the way it is in most European Union countries. We do not have to go far, so we have an example in a small Austria in which it is organised and which status has small and medium entrepreneurship. I fully support your initiative to make this first strategy, I respect your knowledge, energy and effort that you have invested in this document, but I think that this document should be a little bit and commented on in a different way, with respect for your five objectives. We think that, first of all, I would say something in principle that we think that this strategy should have included some other ministry. Therefore, the Ministry of Administration should also say something about a fundamental problem which will later take place through this strategy and through the analysis of the situation from this strategy stretches, which is too much administration and a great administrative barrier in the establishment of small entrepreneurship and the development of small entrepreneurship itself. In any case, the Ministry of Finance should have said something about how he sees himself solving the release of small entrepreneurship with parafiscal inducements. The data is 500 and something. Now it's supposed to be 259 parafiscal charges, and it's probably too many to start with and begin with for beginners who want to start with some small entrepreneurship. Education is the thing we talk about all the time. The fact that our education system is constantly producing certain personnel. So we're making hyper-production of human beings that aren't then on the market, let alone that we can expect those kind of people who've misrepresented professions from today to be some kind of innovative and brave people who'll get into entrepreneurial waters. In any case, the government of the Republic of Croatia should have said a key strategic matter, so a key strategic commitment. Are we just going to be a service company or are we finally going to start dealing with a certain degree of re-industriousization? So it's perfectly normal, legitimate and good that certain money is being invested, not to mention billions of kunas in the recovery of the smuggling. Of course it's one potential of human employment in certain areas, but we have to say that these squires are no longer what they used to be, that shipbuilding is no longer the prewar level of shipbuilding. Unfortunately, many Asian countries have now skipped over, and we will hardly get there anymore. In any case, the government has to say either we're going to do it or we're going to be food producers or we're even going to enter the car industry under certain conditions. And we need to be completely realistic here and say that the car industry has raised from the ashes the economy of small countries such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary. Here we see now in our closest environment how much it meant to be the arrival of Fiat in one, in Serbia in its fallen economy. So that's something the government should strategically say for us. In any case, banks here should say as a key financial factor in all of this. The second thing when your strategy is analysed we come to some, we come to facts and indicators that we did not want to publicly admit. First, more than half of the small economy entities operate within the service sector, as I said. So here we have mostly in our environment dealing with either tourism or dealing with mega-markets. We know that in tourism with all our efforts and organization by the mass of money we make annually from tourism we are approximately at the level of tourist income of a city in Budapest. And we also know that in mega-markets, workers who work, we say, works a lot of workers. Yeah, they work for a minimumer and they do it in almost half a slave's working relationship. Also in your strategy, Croatia is said to have a higher percentage of people who stop schooling after high school education. We have entered the EU, therefore we should have in this part of the strategy some indication in the way that a small Finnish country has now become one of the most educated countries. You also said here that Croatia has supporting institutions to support entrepreneurs. However, the problem with these supporting institutions is their dispersion, i.e. the fact that these supporting institutions do not operate in areas of special state concern, that they are mainly located where this is closer to some major urban centres. We have 21 regional development agencies, we have 10 local development agencies, we have six technological parks. They work mostly 7 hundred people, which is a very good thing anyway. However, it would be even better if all this was properly deployed in a way that all regions could consume the services of these supporting institutions. Then we can talk about assumptions for uniform regional development. In your report, you said something that doesn't encourage us. So the global competitiveness report warns about the lack of confidence of professional corporate administrations. What's this about? Are you... In some way, do we pay the price of that constant story to hire similar, not capable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have now received an evaluation, an official evaluation and a European institution of such a single relationship with management. As a restriction for the development of small entrepreneurship, various administrative restrictions are constantly established. It's a finding from this strategy, it's a slow administration, it's too long legal deadlines to solve certain positive solutions, they're parafiscal impositions. The conclusion is that exports are three times longer on average than exports to EU Member States. I'm also going to point out again that we don't have to go further into our own by some examples of how this can be arranged differently, so in our environment, today in the neighborhood. Today, that's what we're talking about. With all her efforts, the Republic of Serbia has made several significant steps. So, they get company start papers within 7 to 14 days maximum. They freed local self-governments from certain investment fees and were already said here, I think counterpart Bubalo said that each new job was a new open state subsidized by 10,000 euros. It is an effort, but it probably resulted in some sort of ultimate goal. And we finally have banks. For us banks are the most important factor in the development of the economy if the bank will not finance the development of small entrepreneurship these small entrepreneurs have no chance of working. In developed countries, central banks play a major role in solving economic crises, especially central financial institutions. Thus, according to a basic Federal Reserve Act in America, the core tasks of the Federal Reserve include the obligation to take full-time employment measures in the United States. So it's a central financial institution that has an obligation to take care of these things. Central banks have a significant impact on the level of interest rates of business banks through the height of the escontaneous rate. Thus, central banks significantly reduced escontaneous rates. The Federal Reserves apply an escount rate of 1% in 2013, the European Central Bank of 0% in 2012, the Czech Republic 0.05%, Sweden 0.75%, Hungary 4.75%, the CNB applied an escount rate of 7%. How stimulating it is for small entrepreneurship we need to evaluate it ourselves. Also, according to CNB data, the average rate of interest of Croatian business banks in 2009 was 10.25%, while the average interest rate in the euro area was 4.13%, in the Czech Republic 4.85%, in Germany 3.22%, and in us 10.25%. These foreign banks also continued to lower their interest rates and in 2010 the interest rate was even lower, in the euro area was 1.28%, in Great Britain 1.5%, in Austria 2.22%, in Germany 1.5%, in us 3.72%. So that's some data that says what kind of financial sector has to do with our economy and our citizens, but right now we're talking about the situation in the economy. We could also talk here about data on bank placements, and then we could say that only 20% of their available domestic savings have been directed by the banks, and the rest have been financed mainly by the consumption of citizens, the economy in a largely small part for craftsmen and, of course, the state has been financed for its needs. And that's something that should be set differently if we want these goals that you're very correct and very ambitious to set as five large goals so that it can truly bring them back to life. We, in any case, once again support you in this desire to make this strategy and it is acceptable for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54172	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So look all day long we swear that we need to create an entrepreneurial atmosphere in Croatia, enable investment and look at what time and before which audience we are discussing something the deputy minister said that tomorrow should be practically the backbone of the Croatian economy to get out of the crisis. But we're where we are. What about the document itself? So, looking at this document, it can be said that it is an artisan methodological quality made, but also from what the Deputy Minister said and by reading this document we at the HDZ Club believe it was made at the principle level. It's very difficult for me to say so, and I'll try to explain it. First of all, the macroeconomic environment. So in this document, you have nowhere to sum up the real macroeconomic environment, it just doesn't exist. You have some basic theoretical settings and the macroeconomic environment is the key thing about models and methods and measures to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The second thing, what counterpart Horvat touched in one segment was not taken into account at all by the great diversity in the development of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the areas where small and medium entrepreneurship should be developed. The more notices you have on the abolition of the area from special state care, the more notices you have on the abolition of a certain tax non-announcement but are already defined by certain tax laws. First of all, by the Tax Tax on Income and Tax on Profit from 1.01.2014 and automatically the thesis about tax discharge of this falls into your water. Because so far, one of the main arguments that someone would go into the area of special state care was to invest certain tax reliefs, the height of the non-taxable part, and that was one of the models to try and tell people to get back into areas of special state concern. But I'm saying these are all some things that simply aren't worked out enough in this document, they're not processed enough. The next key problem of this document is the structure of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So very few small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are in classical production activity. And you know why? Because at this point, we have too few large entrepreneurs who have traditionally relied on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the past times in Croatia. But also colleagues and colleagues, let's not forget the famous theory that still exists in all the economies of the world, which is the pyramid. Below are craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, in the middle are slightly larger and medium entrepreneurs, and at the top of the pyramid are large entrepreneurs. And that pyramid symbolizes the link between this kind of organization model. So at the bottom there are craftsmen who are not prone to change, and they traditionally work and they exist as they insist. In the middle are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are prone to change, easily adaptable, however, unfortunately as many of them open and collapse in one year under normal economic conditions without economic disturbances, and at the top of the pyramid are large entrepreneurs who absorb all of this that small and large makes. So in times of economic crisis, when even one institution such as the European Community began to shut down not normally but simply declared to save its own economy in its own way and in this way you mentioned the example of the auto-industry. Remember that the French President Sarkozy gave the order to the French automotive industry in times of economic crisis, practically no car, regardless of the fact that Citroen, Renaulto or Pegueotto which is not manufactured in France cannot be sold in France, regardless of their factories in both neighbouring Slovenia and Hungary and Poland, and ultimately one of the great reasons why our neighbours of the Slovenians came to the economic problem between the other and the problem of the automotive industry. So that's looking at the real problem. One thing is theoretically to set things up, and another thing to put into real terms the business in which we do business. And I'm surprised to say several times you mentioned HBOR that you didn't use this HBOR strategy to analyze the use of that model A,B,C later model A-plus and later this model that this government made up of those, so in which segment I think. I mean in that segment where an analysis was made which is the problem of entrepreneurs primarily small and medium-sized in Croatia to reach credit funds. In principle, why can't they in principle come to funding from commercial commercial banks and why does HBOR stay as the only model and the only place where they can get credit? So low capitalisation unfortunately over 95% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are low capitalized. As soon as it is low-capitalised and with such a poor structure, they unfortunately cannot be in debt on the capital market, they can act exclusively through the incentives of the state. Now look if the Croatian State itself is in debt at the interest rate is not now important whether it is 6, 6,5, 6,7 at all, it is irrelevant at this time, then you must be aware that these funds from the institutional banks of Europe above all I think of the EBRD and the EIB at a lower interest rate in order to be able to place them for small and medium-sized enterprises to place in Croatia, then the same small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the old EU members have at least 1% or 1.5% lower interest rates. Why? Because HBOR is the means, regardless of what they are encouraging, it gets at 1 or 1.5% higher interest rates than it is given by another development bank in EU member states. And let's just say I didn't come along if I skipped an accident to apologize to the promoter, so this segment was a little bit worked out and I didn't come across. And why am I saying all this together? I return to that thesis, therefore, that one of the big problems of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is that we don't have large entrepreneurs who would absorb either their service or their product and when our small entrepreneur can't come up with cheap capital and we said he's low-capitalised so he can't count on getting cheap capital in business banks at all, his appearance on the international market is unfortunately at great risk and the question of whether he'll make it through. These are facts we can't escape from. And this has nothing to do with politics, this has nothing to do with the political option, these are the facts for which I have been Minister of Finance for years, and I agree with you if one of the finances insists then it is on control that the resolution ministers control the spending of funds and ultimately the fiscal responsibility law is passed. All things need to be matured. So these are the old ones that I think are missing in this strategy so that it would be lifelike and that it would not be talked about externally but that it could also be at Mile in Bela Manastir and at Sanader somewhere down in the Dalmatian Zagora or at Sagara in Virovitica-Podrava County so that it could be put on and that it could work. Is it why? We have no time or space to bring theoretical strategies. We need to bring in operational programs that will help our entrepreneurs yesterday. And this is by no means a state lesson from a colleague and a colleague, I have today, replicating this previous law, mentioned a programme of economic recovery, and later when I talk about this SWOT analysis, then I will touch on why I mentioned this programme. So given the specificity of the moment and the state of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, some things should be defined differently. And what I'm saying again, I'm sorry, but maybe it's not enough because we at the HDZ Club think that maybe it should have been more pronounced, because I think it's the key to everything and unfortunately by the collapse of those big companies that were firstly leaning on a large clinical market and for a number of other reasons we've lost a number of educational personnel here, I mean, first of all, productive educational personnel, what used to be called craft education. And today, unfortunately, if we don't do some things, someone in 2, 3 or 5 years won't have children to teach us basic crafts work. Without that, we can't talk about the development of the economy. As it is necessary to invest in science such as science and highly educated personnel in the Republic of Croatia due to the structure of its economy should be a feather and these crafts education is something that is very important. Because without such an education, you can't count on making small and medium entrepreneurship. Now, colleagues and colleagues let me move on to this little bit more concrete part, and that's this SWOT analysis, and I'm even surprised that some things my colleagues left in there because these weaknesses are just saying a lot of what's been said today about the problem of structural reforms that haven't been implemented, etc. But what this SWOT analysis lacks, and when it comes to weaknesses, then there are some things where deadlines should be defined by when certain things will be carried out. We cannot conclude, for example, the macroeconomic situation, the limited size of the domestic market, the high dependence on the tourism sector, especially in the coastal region. And now, when you look at it, I've expanded this weakness to several segments. And they just have to be listed, maybe not here, but after the deadlines when some things have to be defined so that this thing doesn't happen. Institutional framework. Unequal regional offer of support services for a small economy, inadequate service quality, poor coordination, quality and quantity of available information in a small economy, unworthy capacity in management bodies and institutional capacity. So, such a study if you had now done in 10 members of the European Union of all new practices would have had very similar or identical findings. However, to make this strategy so given the moment that... All negative macroeconomic indicators would be operational, some deadlines should be drawn from this when certain things have to be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why I said that the economic recovery programme at times of crisis is far stronger than any strategy. Why? Because he defined short-term, actually things that have to be done right away, things that have to be done in the short term and things that have to be done for some kind of long time. And then you can say it's a document that matches the moment we're in. If all these negativitys mentioned in all that analysis do not have time limits until they are removed, then some of these negativitys that may be a key obstacle to the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship if not throughout Croatia, in certain regions, if we have not defined the deadlines to which we will remove them, so that whole story falls into the water. And... A story that can be told nicely on a round table. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mentioned colleagues here, and you have colleagues in these SWOT measures, you mentioned the wood industry. Look, it can't happen if someone has machines for 10 or 15 million euros so they don't get a contract with the Croatian forests. But he's got production. So there's no cutting but there's production. And as we speak, let's now look at how many entrepreneurs have received contracts with the Croatian forests. I'm just talking about the wood industry. We also have a big world chain coming in. He's either an opportunity for our wood industry or he's the undertaker of our wood industry. We'll have no environment. So it's just a fact. And when you mention the wood industry, you don't mention it in this strategy, we didn't say anything. Why? Because we don't have a 5% economic growth. And we don't have 100, 150 thousand unemployed, but we just have 340 thousand unemployed and we have negative economic trends. And if we're not going to operationally put things in place, that's not good. And I'm saying don't take this as some kind of political bickering this is simple and out of our own experience why some things didn't work out, we weren't able to do them. Because why? These measures are, it is a very broad leprosy of those to which they apply. And when you have a very wide range of people who are interested, then it's very difficult for you to implement measures. Each of you sitting here has worked in some institutions no matter how small or large, when you go to root changes you always have those who plant your legs and who want to stop it. And that is why I am saying that certain deadlines should be set and that this strategy would be better quality. Because when you look at these goals strategically, I don't think anyone in Parliament will raise their hand against those goals. It's just something that's just a fact and that's it. But to get to them, we should have done this together. And that's why we have a certain reserve according to this strategy but I say, every thank you for one document that's methodologically and scientifically well done. Unfortunately, however, he will not be much help to our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54174	Thank you. In the name of the club, and I'm sorry, we have one replica. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, even though it is too late, you encouraged me to mention professional education in this strategy at all. And it's mentioned and a very important place has this so-called. entrepreneurship education and the promoter also stated that it is very important to increase the number of previously highly educated persons in the entrepreneurship world. Especially related to science, innovation and the economy. That's what we always stand for. There is currently another strategy in your discussion, the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, and when you read this strategy, and then it is as if these are two opposing documents, and they do not touch much at the level of high school education. Why do I tell you not to touch them? Because you, very little has just been directed, fellow Shucker, at what you have warned you cannot replicate any more colleagues to Horvato, but he has also warned and it is above all that professional education at the level of high school, secondary education must indeed be brought into line with the needs of entrepreneurship. There's very little you touch in this strategy. And one more thing. I must tell you, it is unfortunate that in the report on the implementation of this year's budget for the first 6 months for entrepreneurship and crafts education, only 11% of the funds were used from planned ones. That's very little and the problems are quite evident and you're citing them in this strategy of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54176	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Roksandić, without people who know what they want, starting from those in the production plant to those who need to organize this production plant and who should ultimately place that product on some market and who will come up with what can be done and how can be done, and that is practically from this craft education to higher school education, so to the doctor of science, if we don't have this clear strategy we unfortunately can't do anything about it. And we can drill as much as we want and the one who's either working on... I don't know what kind of doctor science or engineer is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why I'm saying that, so I don't, is not our country 100 years old, we don't have a market economy for 100 years. We have a market economy if we ignore war and peaceful reintegration in recent perhaps 13-14 years that market economy has started to develop. And most small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were basically created by former craftsmen who were once again leaning on large systems, not having their own product but simply whether the INAs, whether the HZ, whether Gredeli, whether Unity, whether the INAs should simply work on a product. And they simply dispersed it to 10, 15 or 20 craftsmen who at some point grew up in the early 1990s to small and medium-sized enterprises and in principle from the former large craftsmen who were divided into 3-4 members of the family by a small company and now we're talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, and we're forgetting about the genealogy that all this came about. Because, unfortunately, there used to be engineers in craft cooperatives who were preparing, doing certain things for those craftsmen, and today these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs don't have the kind of institution to do that to them. All those who once functioned in the economy well know what it looks like and that is why education is simply a backbone to implement this strategy of yours. Without that, unfortunately a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54178	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, a respected colleague named Zeljko Schamper will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The very fact that the proposal for a strategy for the development of the entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2020 was made is commendable, in particular taking into account a small number of small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to the European Union. An increase in the competitiveness of small economy entities should certainly be the backbone of the work of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. In the opening part of the strategy's proposal, the current state of the small economy of the Republic of Croatia is described. The analysis was done in detail with a number of statistics, and the general situation compared to the remaining members of the European Union is quite devastating. The established objectives of entrepreneurship development are for each commendation and well-defined. The general objective is to increase the competitiveness of the small economy in the Republic of Croatia through the following strategic objectives: improving economic performance, improving access to finance, promoting entrepreneurship, improving entrepreneurship skills and improved business environment. With strategic goals, it is stated why each... needs to be focused. There are also days and very general approaches to achieving strategic objectives, e.g. with an improvement in economic performance, it is stated that individual companies and groups of enterprises should be assisted in the process of internationalisation of business. All of these approaches are very commendable and above all necessary. The problem is that neither one of them has given details of how they will be implemented nor what concrete benefits they will bring to entrepreneurs. The strategy is very broadly defined and acceptable. She's actually a good introduction to the right solutions. Realistically, all that is written in the strategy is everyone's clear and identified problems and strategic goals that should be taken. We all know that the small economy sector in Croatia is very important for the overall development of the economy, especially on the biggest problem both in the employment of the unemployed and the creation of new jobs. A great deal of effort has been made by the promoter of this strategy in an analysis and partnership with the European Union countries, as well as an environment in which there is a small economy in the Republic of Croatia. This strategy must aim to strengthen the competitiveness of the small Croatian economy both on the domestic and on the European Union's big market. A full analysis of the situation of the small economy, which makes up 30% of the employees in the Republic of Croatia, is an acceptable and good basis for making measures and concrete solutions to achieve all of these strategic objectives. We believe and hope that this proposal for a strategy will be only the first step as a good framework and a presumption of making concrete moves in this for Croatia's important part of the economy. The HSU Club will support this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54180	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague Ivo Jelusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54181	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, Your Honor, We all agree not only here in the Parliament but generally in society that the development of entrepreneurship, that entrepreneurship is important because without good entrepreneurship, without development there are no employees, no development... there is no development of health or education or social. Therefore, everything is based on entrepreneurship, and if entrepreneurship is poorly written, unfortunately it is bad for everyone and in the social activity of small... and everyone on a personal standard. That is why this strategy is important for us to talk clearly and loudly about the state of our entrepreneurship we take and this strategy would well set things up where he says first and foremost where we are, what we want and how we do it. I think all three of these questions are answered. Of course, when we talk about the development of entrepreneurship in this strategy we mostly think about small and medium entrepreneurship, it is mostly focused on them because large entrepreneurship is in some ways not treated, and there is reason to do so. First of all, small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore a small economy is so much more and more present by its share in the economy in general in entrepreneurship and in us and in Europe as well as in the world. On the other hand, it is known in general that small and medium enterprises are much more flexible, much more flexible market and everything that happens around and ultimately why is it important? There's not one big firm today, no big businessman who didn't go as a kid, and who knows from this little and medium-sized enterprise that we're talking about today, which we're worried about, who knows if in 10, 20, 30 years, a big firm is going to grow out of it? Maybe that's what I believe will happen. Therefore, it is important and therefore should be supported because it is small because it is weak because it is weaker than others. And on the other hand, we never know what's going to come of it. Because I'm saying all the big firms were small someday. Of course, in our heads, the names of the big companies are still sound that I'm not advertising them here now, not one of ours, not one of the world's companies. However, when you look at the data, it is only 30% of employment, when we talk about the real sector, and small and medium entrepreneurship is 70%. So 700,000 people in Croatia are working in that segment and that's why it's important. On the other hand, the share in the gross social product is less than the share in employment which is logical since it is, therefore, a different small structure. The share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the gross social product is 51%, and the goal of this strategy is to reach 62% in the next seven years. And I hope, I believe, and I would like it to really be realized and that with the help of these measures that we're going to talk about will really happen. What matters is when we talk about one of these measures is promotion. So to create a certain social awareness of the importance, the importance of small and medium entrepreneurship, and to simply change to say the social atmosphere about it. That is why this strategy, including this debate, and everything that is going on about entrepreneurship, is important that it is precisely to change a certain social consciousness, to understand the importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Because from these numbers that I was talking about a little while ago, it's really important. What isn't, what we don't support is the structure of this small, medium-sized enterprise. Because unfortunately most of them are in the service sector, less in the manufacturing sector. In Europe, it's something different. In part, however, because of this great economic situation, the large companies are in crisis, and they are leaned on by a small one, as well as by fellow Shuker. But that's where we see the chance. How can I say that? All the crisis isn't always just, or she's a chance to get out. Therefore, why don't our small companies, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen look for their space right into the EU that we've now entered, to connect not to our large companies, but to German, Austrian, Italian, to work as their subcontractors, cooperatives, suppliers, etc. And there's a big chance. We, especially the good part of them in services, have recently passed a year and a few days ago a service law that is in line with the EU where we see a certain chance for all our small entrepreneurs, to provide their services here in Zagreb today, in Croatia anywhere, in Vienna, in Milan and elsewhere, and there is a great chance. I think there's both the Ministry and the Chamber, and so on. They must make a lot of effort to open the door, to find those valves where we can place the engagement of our services and our small entrepreneurship. About competitiveness, which is one of the goals, of course, that's important. However, where we are absolutely uncompetitive it is when it comes to the price of capital, therefore the capital needed for development. There's no development without bank support, no cheap capital, and here we're not competitive. And when we look at Germany, the average interest rate for entrepreneurs takes place somewhere between one and a half and three percent and we have 7, 8, 10, 11%. Of course, in that part, our entrepreneur can't be competitive either small or medium, or large to those from abroad because he simply has a way in, his input is much more expensive, his capital is more expensive. He has to work twice as hard to make as simple as this because he has to give his five, six percent profit to banks, to the financial sector in order to be able to work at all. There is, of course, the importance of the HBOR we talked about and indeed, that there is no HBOR who knows how much more, how much harder this situation would be than it is today. There's also Hamag's role. So it's all very important. But as long as the policy of Croatian banks or better precisely said banks in Croatia doesn't change. Because as far as they are Croatian about it, they only live there, it is difficult for our entrepreneurship to become competitive at least with regard to the price of capital, and without it there is no development. Because unfortunately, the situation is such that banks were mostly looking at their margin and profit, they didn't look at entrepreneurs as partners where both will go well, where the bank will be well, and the entrepreneur will do well than how the bank will be too good and how the entrepreneur will be able to think about it himself. It's known that it's easier for us to get a loan or a lease if you want to buy a car, if it's something to spend than if you want to buy a machine or invest in production. So that's the problem of the financing policy that needs to change and if it were, if the banking sector were to function with us as in Germany, surely so would many of our problems, including those that I'm talking about, be much easier or easier to solve. On its part, the Government made a series of concessions, a move to make it possible for the economy to start, to be easier than the Financial Business Act and a pre-profit settlement where we primarily helped small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because they were most threatened by non-payment, largely not paid for, to the extent that the reduced tax rate, increased from 85 to 145 000 kuna, was increased from 80 to 230 000 kuna for entering the VAT system. So these are all measures that need to be made possible in some way and enable entrepreneurship to gain momentum. Finally, a famous fiscalization that caused great debate and great attention. It must have contributed to the improvement of small entrepreneurship, because in small entrepreneurship it was mostly the most relevant fiscalisation and there were the biggest problems of non-payment and there was unfair competition. Someone paid, someone didn't pay. One craftsman was paying, the other was not,... And that's why it's important to introduce order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And simply to introduce justice so that they can all be in the same position, to be equally competitive, and then to compete with their work and their knowledge and their skills. So, surely, these measures that the government has taken so far not to list them all from... to get what my colleague Shuker was talking about with the right that our small and medium-sized enterprise is undercapitalized certainly not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But not just a little, but a lot, and that capitalization has been dropping in the last 15 years. She's fallen a lot. This measure is somehow helping to raise this capitalisation to a higher level so that it is capitalised better, to be more serious towards banks, to be a more serious partner. So I believe that this strategy and these measures that have been taken so far will yield results. That what we are planning will happen in this strategy, which means that both the share of small and medium-sized enterprises will increase to 60% or 62% in the next few years in GDP and that I would say that there will be a crisis that is also a psychological crisis. This is an economic crisis, but it's also psychological. We have a situation that we also have entrepreneurs who have a program that can access certain financial resources, I will not now say the favourable ones that are on the market but people simply don't dare invest because in general the situation is such in society that no one dares to do anything. Therefore, this strategy and this debate should bring about this to break up this psychosis, the fear that is present in entrepreneurship and to move as bravely as it should in entrepreneurship and be because there is no job without risk and there is no profit. And I believe that we will finally start from next year with rising growth rates and that this strategy will certainly contribute to that. And of course we'll support her in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54182	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Branko Vuksic signed up first. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54183	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with Associates, fellow last Mojikans who have made it to this late hour. Here I would say that this is a new moment actually in planning and thinking about our economy. So, as the Deputy Minister said, this is the first strategy we've come up with. And actually, so far, if we look too little, we've been thinking strategically not only in the economy, which is extremely important, it was bad that we didn't think about it strategically, but in almost all segments of our life and the development of our country. Therefore, it is certainly to welcome even though a strategy such as fellow Shuker and said perhaps a good analysis of the current situation with the proposals for measures and long-term objectives that may be and does not necessarily benefit our entrepreneurs themselves. I'd still disagree, I wouldn't agree with the segment if it was something bad because here's the first time we're bringing it in. So I think strategic thinking and thinking in this segment is very important. What I would like, in fact, is a few things I would really like to highlight from the strategy what I think is also extremely important and that is my colleague Jelusic and touched in his last part of the debate is the development of a culture of entrepreneurship. So there is what counterpart Jelusic said this crisis that affects us not only the real crisis but also the psychological crisis. Commercial banks are very difficult to place money on the market and it affects small entrepreneurs first and foremost. So one of the problems identified by this strategy is the fact that small entrepreneurs mean beginners most difficult in their first months of life to come up with financial resources that are extremely important to us. There is also an innovation moment. So, trying to boost innovation in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I'd say we have an extremely good potential here, but not enough realisation. I'll give you some examples. Let's say the city of Osijek that predences and has ambitions to be an IT city. So, both in the city of Osijek and here in Zagreb and anywhere in Croatia, you have a whole range of companies, people who work in the IT sector who live well from that IT sector. They do export their products mostly but have no charge problems, they have no problems with the placement of their products. Some of them are even great at what they do. And I'm afraid they're often not recognized in their own country, so they have problems with that. You have top scientific institutions which, in my opinion, are some and capitalize their achievements but some do not. Here, again, I would like to point out a positive example of the Osijek Agricultural Institute, which is one of the few institutions that is 100% state-owned, so a scientific institution that is doing very well thanks to innovation. We say that competitiveness and healthy entrepreneurship are important to us. However, as long as the state is the main individual and largest individual customer of goods and services, I am afraid this will not radically change. Because we've had situations that many small entrepreneurs and not only small entrepreneurs live exclusively on the orders of the state. So, whether it's consulting services, whether they're real delivery of certain goods and so on until it changes, I'm afraid our economy will be where it is. In particular, it concerns the density of small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia, which is only 70% here in 27 countries. So that's where all the euro area countries come in. Therefore, it is something to work on especially if we consider that small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones carrying I would dare to say to the spine of the Croatian economy. Also, more than half of small and medium-sized enterprises are service activities. So, a little more than half. That's the problem with not creating added value. We also have a problem exporting raw materials, not products. So it's something to work on, and I'm glad that this is exactly what the strategy recognized. What I am extremely concerned about is what is defined in the strategy and I hope that it will continue to be defined in the Science and Education Strategy is a small number of employability scientists and engineers in the real sector. Here's what needs to be changed because we have top scientists, we have top engineers and experts who aren't engaged in the economy. So it turns out in the end that we're producing scientific personnel for scientific personnel on our own. Until we place them back in the economy, until they contribute to the real sector, that is not justified. So the production of such scientific personnel is not justified. Of course, there are differences in humanities and, of course, it will never be used in an economy like you can say exact sciences, but there certainly are good examples. Unfortunately, though, they are rare. I think it's necessary to strengthen the clustering. Small entrepreneurs can be competitive with clusters right now, and that's something to work on. Support institutions are mentioned I will not be particularly dependent on them are unequal regional but I am afraid that this depends on the individual units of local self-government and individuals who run them, so here we are talking about entrepreneurial incubators, development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, technology parks. We have very good examples, we have catastrophically bad examples. The unification and normisation of the same by me should be one of the priorities in the next period. A bad image of self-employment is something that is extremely worrying. Self-employment as such, and when we talk about small entrepreneurs, so that's what we're counting and crafts is something that must have priority because people are primarily not aware of the benefits of self-employment and on the other hand are not sufficiently engaged in an active search for their niche, so let's call it in the working world or our market positions. Retraining, additional education, entrepreneurial ideas, etc. The legal structure of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs themselves is the same pattern, so we also have trades and companies and cooperatives, so it's very difficult to write a strategy about it. However, what I would like to stress in support institutions we forget, I forgot to say to the Chamber of crafts. The craft chamber, which deals only with segments of small and medium-sized enterprises, but since this is not a topic we actually have the Law on crafts, I will present my debate on the Chamber of crafts at the time. What I think may not be used enough, is not best used and that it should also be tried to capitalize. Finally, I can say that I support the strategy, certainly it is a step in planning the economy in the Republic of Croatia but what is more interesting than the strategy itself will be to monitor its implementation so that I believe that we will have opportunities to discuss it in the Assembly and see what concrete results these measures will give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54184	Thank you. Next thing you know, Damir Cain is missing, losing his right to debate. Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54185	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Deputy Minister with Associates, esteemed colleagues. I'll try for a while because it's already too late. To single out only those elements of the strategy that I think is important, and they are related to these five strategic objectives leading to the main objective, which is to increase competitiveness and strengthen the entrepreneurial potential and culture of entrepreneurship. First of all, what we all know more or less about good business is the key three elements: knowledge, tradition and capital. First of all, research and development as a basis for increasing the economic performance of entrepreneurship, of course that outdated technology and low levels of innovation have a devastating impact in the long term on increasing business efficiency and employment levels. In this respect, it is necessary to increase significantly the expenditure targeted at innovation, new technologies and specific... through measures of national programmes based on this strategy. What has been shown in terms of the availability of financial resources as problems are the lack of credit guarantees and not separating the range of bank products and services required credit capability, the amount of interest rates repeatedly said here to be too much, insufficient information available to financial products. It is necessary to improve the flow of financial proposals and this strategy clearly and states, and this should be mentioned that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft has implemented and implemented various measures that go towards creating more favourable conditions and competitiveness. That's where I'm going to list just some entrepreneurial... In 2012, nearly 2.5 thousand aid amounted to EUR 168.5 million. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] The business imputability 2013 consists of 4 measures, measures A,B,C and D. To each of the measures to measure A 21 million and a half to measure B 28 million to measure C 28 and 200 and to measure D 15 million 600 000. These are not negligible assets and any entrepreneur involved in some of these measures can significantly improve his business. It is important to connect it is already said by small and large enterprises. The processing industry, it is extremely important that the strategy cites great opportunities if it attracts direct foreign investment. Personally, it's important and it's shown... The provision of support for the creation of new businesses is low in relation to the EU. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] In order to achieve these objectives, it is also necessary to improve the legislative framework, so I would only briefly like to see what has already been done, these are amendments and additions to the Small Economy Development Act, the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and the Promotion of the Investment Environment. The Law on crafts and the Law on funeral activities, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Cooperatives, are in place. There is also a strategy for the development of women's entrepreneurship, learning with entrepreneurship and cluster development strategies and the cluster development action plan. All active contracts and projects are implemented. Developing entrepreneurial skills through education and lifelong learning directly affects not only this partial objective defined by the strategy but also touches all other objectives. Of course, the greatest danger is manifested at a high rate of youth unemployment and emigration. It is particularly important to encourage individual measures to employ young people and those with high academic qualifications based on research, which would increase the introduction of research and development in businesses. Entrepreneurship should certainly be not only a form of social activity but also a way of life attractive to people with high levels of knowledge and skills. In terms of increasing competitiveness, it is important... to use the energy of small entrepreneurship because it directly affects the price of products and services. And just for a little while and those key measures that have been taken so far. It's an improvement of policy and measure... economics, strengthening the competitiveness of entrepreneurship through change and improvement of the support system, a better environment for women entrepreneurship. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] Since 2013 the new tax legislation has been in force, the threshold for registration of VAT taxpayers has been increased, reduced by 2 percentage points per health contribution tax,... Attendance and tourism and the reinvested tax has been abolished zero percent and a contribution for new employees for two years has been abolished. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] The entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies allows for the opening of a simple limited liability company from which registration funds are reduced to around 880 kuna and the underlying capital is 10 kuna. With these amendments and additions to the Small Economy Development Act, the extended activities of the Croatian Small Economy Agency and its name changed to the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency and in line with the objectives of strengthening competitiveness through the expansion of innovation support and innovative entrepreneurship since 1 July 2014. HAMAG INVEST will join the BICRO business innovation agency, which I particularly welcome because in the previous debate, counterpart Hajdukovic said innovations are extremely important. Finally, with the above measures that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship is currently implementing and intending to implement and support this Strategy as a long-term document that it proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54186	Thank you. Boris Blazekovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The Prime Minister does not consider it necessary to keep the closing word. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote Friday. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue tomorrow on the scheduled agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-23-0.u54187	Proposal for a Strategy for Entrepreneurship Development of the Republic of Croatia 2013-2020 The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 87 votes for and 6 abstentions, have been adopted by the Strategy for the Development of Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia in 2013-2020 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. We continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly according to established agenda. It is now up to you - Final draft law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 486 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, dear Minister.
