ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52225	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. We continue the session with a united discussion as agreed with the representatives of the clubs on: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2012, - Report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2012, - Report on the performance of the national preventive mechanism for 2012. The Advocate General delivered the report on the basis of Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the material into the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports at the session. Introduces the reports of the attorney general, Ms. Lora Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52226	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. In view of the extension of the mandate of the Ombudsman's Office and of all the tasks arising from those mandates for 2012 three reports were submitted to the Croatian Assembly, the report on the work under the Law to the Ombudsman, the Report on the occurrences of discrimination in accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the conduct of the affairs of the national preventive mechanism in accordance with the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. In the classical Ombudsman's jurisdiction, which applied exclusively to the protection of human and legal rights of citizens during the adoption of the new Law on the Ombudsman last year when they were injured or committed by public authorities and in that sense, this is the 17th report on labour. In the context of this original Ombudsman mandate, until last year's adoption of the law, the Ombudsman was not given the task of either preventive and promotional work on topics from a wider field of human rights, but this changed the 2012 Law on the Ombudsman when the office was also given a strong mandate in that respect, which also followed the accession of the Centre for Human Rights. On the other hand, according to the 2008 Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Ombudsman also acts on complaints from citizens but also conducts research, analyses the data, warns the public about the occurrences of discrimination, and then this 4th report is not only about the work of the Ombudsman to combat discrimination but generally about the occurrences of discrimination in Croatia. And another specificity of action, the actions of the Ombudsman in relation to the occurrences of discrimination, is that we have the power to act not only on public authorities but on the public sector, but also on the private sector, and we also have the opportunity to participate in judicial proceedings when it comes to discrimination. And finally, the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism of 2012 but, as the name itself says, the aim is to prevent the action in order to eliminate situations that can lead to torture or inhumane treatment of persons deprived of liberty or those who are limited to freedom of movement. And as the law was passed in 2011, and the national preventive mechanism began to operate in 2012 is the first such report. Since this debate is united on all three reports, as well as on the rules of procedure of the Ombudsman in July of this year, one full and regular report is scheduled to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament in the future, this exhibition is actually structured through the most important topics in the field of human rights, or the topics which have been addressed by the Ombudsman's Office in 2012 and these are topics that are really common to two or more reports, or those that are very intertwined, and not through certain reports in themselves. And of course there is a very large number of areas and topics listed in the report, so I am not going to talk about them all, but really about those who put themselves most through complaints, which, of course, does not mean that the other topics are not as important as they are, but just for the sake of time, I decided to talk about several of them, and the rest of them you can see a comprehensively integrated text of each report. In 2012, a total of 1849 complaints were sent to the Ombudsman, of which 202 referred to discrimination. However, at the beginning it is important to point out one specificity stemming from the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which is that the Advocate General is designated as the central authority responsible for the fight against discrimination on all 17 grounds set out in the report. At the same time, we are explicitly under the jurisdiction of 12 bases while the other 5 are in the jurisdiction of the special counsel. That is why the report sets out statistics that we as a central body have united. Therefore, the total number of complaints sent to all offices for discrimination is also listed in the report, i.e. specific parts of the text, or recommendations from the responsibilities of the special prosecutor, but I will not talk about it, since they will certainly talk about it when they present their reports. So when we talk about total complaints of discrimination during 2012 all of the defence institutions received a total of 541 complaints, so we only talk about discrimination. As I said, 202 we got into the Attorney General's office, 6 lawyers for disabled persons, 16 lawyers for children, and 317 lawyers for gender equality. When we speak specifically of complaints received in the Office of the Public Prosecutor, therefore, whether they are for human rights violations or because there is a suspicion of discrimination, a total of 1849 complaints have been received. Of these 20% were evaluated, so we found that there was some violation of the law, 27% were unfounded, 25% of the cases of complaints were incomplete, or we immediately found that it was that we were not authorized to act and in other cases, so about 28% of them at the time the report was filed were not completed, so these are the most complex items in which the work on them takes a long time. When we talk about certain topics, i.e. certain areas that we have dealt with the most obvious conclusion arising from the 2012 work independently of which they complain or citizens that their rights have been violated or feel discriminated against is that they have no confidence in the judiciary. And of course that's not news here. I believe that many of you also receive numerous complaints and representations from citizens who are dissatisfied with the judicial system. We also see complaints about the work of the judiciary as the most numerous, so there were 22.5% in regular jurisdiction compared to the total number of complaints and 19% in the field of discrimination. And whether it's a matter of lengthy conduct or a matter of citizens being dissatisfied with the metrics of a court decision. So they are dissatisfied with the outcome of the procedure for them. Of course, when we talk about the judiciary, the role of the attorney general is very limited, and that is what needs to be left. Of course, given that the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia is independent and independent and that the decisions of the court can only be questioned by a senior court. However, I think it is very important to send this opportunity a message that, on the one hand, judicial reform but, of course, in all other effective ways, it is important to strengthen citizens’ confidence in the judicial system. Of course, this also means strengthening awareness of the importance of the rule of law and the importance of the rule of law. And of course the responsibility for this lies primarily with the government, lies with the Ministry of Justice but, of course, lies on the judicial authority itself, although, of course, there is responsibility for strengthening trust and for the perception that citizens have in the judiciary is a responsibility and full of justice and lies on a whole series of social stakeholders, of course, there is an office of the attorney general but there is also a Parliament, not government associations, chambers, politicians when they talk about the public. It is now the impression of citizens that we are reading from complaints that come to our office that the judiciary is intransparent, inefficient, corrupt and will surely need to make great efforts to change such perception and to have confidence in the judicial decisions they receive. During 2012, we also received a large part of the requests for legal advice and opinions. So, actually, for free legal aid. And that showed, among other things, how ineffective the Law on Free Legal Assistance is and how it really does not give opportunity for that service to the citizens who need it. And we know that actually free legal aid needs those of our fellow citizens who are weaker property status, who are often lower education status, they were confused, they had no information about where and how they can help, where they can get information that will help them protect someone from the court. Another important area that extends through regular ombucmanic but also through anti-discrimination is the area of work and employment. That is, the whole area of working conditions, working and service relations. Citizens complained about working relations in the economy and crafts, but also in the public sector, in public services, there were irregularities in employment, in progress or in the termination of employment, it was a violation of their financial rights which they considered to belong to, therefore, payouts, severances, transportation fees and the like. One of the recommendations that we refer to in the report and which seems very important for this occasion is that official legislation should be well reviewed. Since there is now a difference in legal institutes and, in general, rules of conduct between officials and state-level residents and at local level. And that's something that would be important to level. As for discrimination, the field of work and employment is the most represented area when we look at all the complaints we have received, 46% of them therefore refer precisely to the field of work and employment. And we've noticed back in the last few years the trend of growth. They also referred to work and working conditions, ability to carry out activities, selection criteria, employment conditions, progress. When we talk about the basics in the field of employment, they were mostly based on age, and we received complaints from both young and old, and they could be discriminated against on the labour market, based on age. There were many about gender discrimination, of course more will be spoken by the Ombudsman for gender equality. And besides, we have received complaints about discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, i.e. the national origin of that education. All of this refers to the field of work and employment. And, of course, at an unemployment rate of 18.3% in a particularly vulnerable position related to this area and the possibility of employment and then the risk of discrimination in employment are individual groups of citizens who are particularly vulnerable, and then in this context we mention, for example. Long-term unemployed women over 50 who may still be members of national minorities or have disabilities. And in this respect, one of the recommendations we have made is that we certainly think that increasing the rate of participation of vulnerable groups of citizens should be one of the priorities of the resolution ministry in planning and handling. We also received several complaints about harassment at the workplace. And this has shown that there is one indetermination, or need for better regulation of the area, of this whole harassment problem, or of mobbing. On the one hand, it is the harassment that relates to some discriminatory basis, and then, as such, it is discrimination. On the other hand, it is harassment that is not related to discriminatory grounds, which means that classical abuse is and that it should be regulated as such. We think that's exactly how it should be done in the future in order to clarify the course of action. Also as a special topic, I would like to highlight the chronic long-term problems most of which are faced by members of the Serbian national minority, and they are related to the problem of refugee returns or housing programmes, creating conditions for sustainable return. And I'm mentioning this because it's really a problem that's been going on for many years and it doesn't work out, it doesn't increase the number of complaints, so the inflow of the case isn't that big, but it's really, maybe we can even tell a smaller number of people who are long, long years facing the same problems. Of course, the reasons for this are indeed multiple and many of them lie in inadequate regulations, since they are constantly and often changing, and that the amendments and additions to the rules in this area are so much that even the most excellent legal professionals, let alone citizens we know of are actually the oldest age, that they are also often socially excluded, so that they are poor, that they are not higher education status. The co-operation of the Ombudsman during 2012 with the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds at the time was inadequate and there was no adequate internal communication within the ministry. A good part of the year was actually awaiting reconstruction, a new organisational structure, or the establishment of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which took over the former administration's duties within the ministry. As regards 2012, there has been no progress in resolving the remaining 15 cases of temporary property owners that it has taken over to the management of the Republic of Croatia. So it was 15 cases that had been repeated for a really long number of years, and there was no progress in 2012 either. In 2012, 1/10 housing cases were solved compared to 2011, so I would say an absolute stalemate in solving these problems. Only 2, so from 1284, the applications submitted were resolved by November 2012. And, of course, citizens who address us write, think it's corruption and nepotism, feel discriminated against on the basis of national belongings, and given the years that have passed since the war, we can really consider them the victims of the most severe human rights violations, above all property rights and home rights. And when we talk about complaints during 2012 compared to ethnic origin, including nationality. the most frequently represented basis among all 12 for which the Advocate General is responsible under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is responsible. And when we talk about ethnicity, of course, it is particularly important to highlight the difficult situation in which members of the Roma national minority are. 90% of them receive some forms of social assistance even though we know that regional differences are also quite large. In Međimurje 98% of Roma are unemployed, in Rijeka 15% are unemployed, so their position is not equal everywhere. A large number of Roma remain unregulated despite the strong family ties they have in the Republic of Croatia, their living conditions remain very often below the human dignity line. I believe that we can often testify to that on a daily basis. In 2012, the National Strategy for Roma Integration was adopted in 2013-2020, and it is absolutely certain that it will remain another dead letter on paper if the measures and activities envisaged by it are not seriously implemented. I would, in particular, point out several areas, i.e. several measures and activities, particularly as regards the inclusion of better, i.e. the extension of the number of years spent by Roma children in primary school, i.e. the completion of primary school especially Roma girls, the implementation of active Roma employment measures, the improvement of housing conditions and, in particular, the strengthening of the responsibilities and roles of both national and local authorities in order to really implement these measures. Today is the World Day of the Poor. What we see in the office through a really large number of complaints, regardless of the specific area or the specific law that citizens are complaining about is that many of the problems faced are either caused by their poverty or unemployment and because they cannot regularly settle their obligations and can indeed be seen as a consequence of the economic crisis. We know that social aid amounts are extremely low and that they do not actually allow survival, let alone a dignified life, and therefore we feel that it is really important to constantly question whether social aid is well targeted and whether it really comes to those who need it most. The reform of the social system has been going on since 2006, and so far it has not actually yielded significant results compared to the quality of life of socially endangered citizens, nor has social policy measures so far prevented poverty. We know that the risk of poverty in Croatia is more than 20%, so 21%. This is also visible in our office in complaints about 2012 because they have increased, for example, the number related to social housing. This can certainly again lead to a situation where citizens are in a situation where they remain homeless, so they are faced with homelessness. Care for the homeless is left to the fiscal capacity of local communities, so local self-government units. Again, it leads to great inequality throughout the country. We also warned about problems that homeless people have about regulating their dwellings. And finally, when we talk about the most vulnerable groups of the population, we know that citizens of the elderly are here in a particularly vulnerable situation and are also often faced with poverty. Because of their age, and sometimes they have a difficult access to goods and services, and we problem this in the report on the occurrences of discrimination especially in the context of access to health. As I mentioned earlier in the area of the fight against discrimination with this reactive work on citizens' complaints is a very important and promotional work, i.e. preventive work. In fact, it is obvious that the general public but not even the professional public, so professionals do not yet know what discrimination is. They do not know what the basics are, what the areas are, whom to complain about, when to complain, how to complain and, of course, not only in Croatia, but in many other European countries. And so, during 2012 in the office, a really significant effort was made in preventive and promotional activities related to the prevention of discrimination, so a large, extensive research was carried out. It took part in two EU projects, i.e. IPA. They were organized, co-organised really numerous round tables and stands, public debates, meetings where office representatives participated. For example, only within one of these large IPAs were 52 activities carried out. And of course that's something where it takes a big and strong activity of a really larger circle of stakeholders to make this area of discrimination of history as something that is very important and as something that we all have to prevent together. With regard to the work of the Office on the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, that is, the report on the National Prevention Mechanism is primarily important to distinguish two areas. It is one of the classic ombudsman responsibilities in which the Ombudsman acts on complaints from persons deprived of liberty and persons who are limited to freedom of movement. In 2012 and in the office, we had 219 which makes this area the second most representative of all complaints received. On the other hand, the National Prevention Mechanism plays a preventive role as it does. Thus, through tours, through recommendations and cooperation, work is to remove conditions that can lead to torture or inhumane conduct. As well as within the framework of the action of the National Prevention Mechanism, as well as in the framework of regular jurisdiction, the Advocate General shall visit the institutions in which they are located, in which persons who are deprived of liberty or those who are prevented from being free of movement are staying. Last year we were on 27 such tours, but I would like to point out that, in fact, in the very jurisdiction of the National Prevention Mechanism, there are a very large number of institutions. So there are 23 in the prison system, about 250 in the framework of the MUP, 5 in the Ministry of Defence, 32 in the Ministry of Health, and about 570 in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. In all the tours and actions in this area, we found that during 2012, there were no practices in Croatia that could be characterized as torture, but there were those acts that represent humiliating or inhumane treatment. And yet I must say that was at the level of the exception, not the system that allows such inhumane treatment. The main problems in the prison system are the conditionality of accommodation, above all, although overcrowding in the prison system is now at 125% and we cannot be satisfied with it. Unsuitable are the conditions of accommodation in detention police units in the detention rooms and we have equally noticed considerable uncondition in the Houses for mentally ill adults. Significant problems in the prison system are related to access to health, i.e. the health care of people deprived of freedom. In particular, the lack of healthcare professionals in the justice system. Now the situation is that the law enforcement officers are sharing therapy. What would be good is that the care of health within the prison system should be removed from the justice system and organised into the health system. We believe that this would lead to better solutions and better health care. And how important and disturbing this area is, in fact, the fact that we already have several European Court of Human Rights rulings to violate Article 3 which speaks of the prohibition of torture precisely because of inadequate healthcare. Therefore, it is generally not alarming but a lack of financial resources which is, of course, always an excuse and the reason why there is no more investment and why the situation is no better should not be an excuse for not taking measures that can lead not only to torture but also to milder forms of inhumane conduct or humiliating treatment. Here, this is the only one I would say a shorter picture of how much time it allowed those topics that were imposed I would say through work in 2012 and as the most significant. Of course they're in themselves and they're not the most significant. Always the problem we're facing is the worst. There are a very large number of areas and topics and in general methods and methodologies of work in the Office of the Public Attorney. Of course, much more information on this is also in the integral text of each report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52227	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52228	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, I've been closely monitoring your exposure, and in every part of it, of course, everything is covered. But I'm particularly stuck with the ear part where you said that it's a particularly worrying loss of citizens in the judiciary and there are, of course, certain data spoken both number and statistics, etc., but I would like to warn at this point about a point where almost 25 thousand citizens of ours are being brought into an unequal position. I'm not gonna use that word of discrimination. Namely, the decision of the Minister from late June 2013 abolished the land-booking department based in Đurđevec. And only three months earlier is in accordance with the law, etc. A special department has been established to enable citizens of the area to exercise their rights more quickly and easily. In the meantime, what happened to making one of these decisions? This led to an unequal position of 25,000 citizens of Djurdjevac and 7 surrounding municipalities. Of course, about 30,000 owners and property rights holders. Now it says that the thesis says there is a possibility of reaching certain data via the Internet, but in official procedures it is not possible to use it. And now those citizens who need to exercise certain rights must go to Koprivnica and return. And you mentioned Poor People's Day, there's an increasing number of poor farming households that simply don't have the resources and this way is and innocuousness I can't possibly understand brought this number of residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52229	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52230	Thank you very much. Mrs. Attorney-General, you mentioned two things, but you didn't give a complete answer, so it leaves certain misunderstandings in the air, and that's a very low percentage of housing and another apartment is also a very low percentage in the purchase of apartments. So there are two things that I think in this report were at least meant to be indicated or accepted in a certain way. One thing is when you look at the implementation of the 2012 budget and then you will see that the funds are practically completely spent from that position. So, is that percentage low because in the savings program and those positions are blocked. And another thing that the Croatian public needs to say about something that has been withdrawn in continuity for years as far as housing is concerned in areas of special state concern I think at this point you have several hundred, if not several thousand apartments that are arranged, made, returned to people, and these apartments are empty. You have even in the center of certain cities such as the Iron, the Court, etc. Completely decorated buildings where apartments fail and when you look at statistics so they are empty and also these apartments might be given to some people who would like to come back. So this is one subject that is so very sensitive because it is the fate of people, and when someone reads your report it gets one quite wrong picture because it simply needs to be solved in some other way, it simply needs to be determined that the state in recent years has given great money to set up housing units that have been arranged and returned, and so unfortunately, the austerity measures of this government have hit this position. If that were the case, a lot of things wouldn't stay in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52231	Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52232	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, and I thank you, and I thank you, the Attorney General, for this explanation regarding these reports. You mentioned the basics of labour and employment discrimination, and in particular in these reports we read about employees working in the economic and public sector. A whole category of work is left to us, so I'm going to say uncovered, and these are entrepreneurs, more precisely, craftsmen. From day to day, we face increasing discrimination against these entrepreneurs on the basis of unequal treatment. And that's the unequal treatment of the tax authorities that here are acting as they seem. The procedures of the second-degree and the Administrative Court take an extremely long time. We are talking about strategic investment and economic development and, on the other hand, this is exactly how we destroy this economy and destroy it. And this is one category of Croatian citizens who simply stays on ice, unable to do anything despite all those mechanisms that we have in the Ministry of Finance as such from their audits, procedures and so forth. Which, unfortunately, always, ends at the expense of that craftsman. And I think that if we continue to deal with craftsmen in one-sided driving only in charge of the budget, and not to protect those small businesses in the second year in your report, we will read more and more information about labour discrimination but those that are not protected now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52233	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, I just want to warn you of one part of the exhibit in which you rightly mentioned Roma, so to the minority, and speaking of the new Roma Programme, you said that it would not be a good thing if it remained a dead letter on paper. Which, I'm sure you didn't mean it, could conclude that nothing was done on the basis of the previous program. It's been done a lot, I've been led by the Committee of Roma Governments of the Republic of Croatia, so what's certainly important is to point out again that the number of children enrolled in schools has tripled. Especially that program was about schooling girls. That we introduced scholarships for example for the education of those young Roma who wanted to go to high school but also who wanted to continue schooling in colleges that developed good programs that were largely implemented in the construction of Roma settlements, for example, lower Dubrava, which was indeed a place of horror a few years ago. So in this sense, the government has done a lot and spent a significant part of the funds, but special employment programmes have been developed for Roma and also health insurance, vaccinations and everything that was extremely important since this group of people in Croatia still lives very hard. The perma of that, big shifts in infrastructure and settlements have been made, and I believe that it is important to always point out that we would not have the impression that we were just writing some programs without there being absolutely nothing behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52235	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52236	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed Attorney General, you said you had too little time left to talk a little more about the phenomena of discrimination in our society. I looked at the display and there were four minutes left, so you could actually use those 4 minutes to discrimination in employment or in the field of employment, but you didn't mention and you should have mentioned discrimination by political membership in employment in state and public services, which is particularly familiar with the law on preventing discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52237	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52238	Thank you very much. Your Honor's Attorney General. In your report, you have shown in detail different types of discrimination on different grounds, but it has lagged behind and very often there are discrimination in the economy. Different behaviours of state authorities towards the same entities, different treatment of the same actions or misdemeanors, wage discrimination, more complex and more responsible jobs are less paid than more complex and less responsible jobs in the same entities, discrimination in the order of payment or non-payment. However, you also said that women are particularly discriminated against by those who do not work and that the causes of low employment should be explored. I think the biggest discrimination against women is the ones that work, and that's the most common case. I recently saw at a shopping mall that the extended working hours on Saturday were until 9:00 p.m., and now until 11:00 p.m. There is no trade centre in the EU Austria to the neighbour who works until 23.00 hours, not to report these women who work, and I counted all women at 23.00 hours, all women were, must not even report that they work overtime and have the lowest wages possible. No one works like those women in stores for such low wages, they're the most endangered. At the same time, violence is also being committed against them, they are exposed to various forms of harassment, and most often it is the male world. I'm ashamed of the men's world working towards women in business, working women, of course, and those in the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52239	Ivan Shantek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52240	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. I'd like to refer to the part of your exposure where you said that judicial officers share in prison therapy. But for the sake of the public here, I must say that therapy is prescribed by doctors, and here in the report of our Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, it is also pointed out that, for example, in large prisons such as Glina prisons, Glina is not a prison but a penitentiary that lacks doctors, therapy is often shared by judicial officers. But I certainly know that the Glen Penitentiary has two nurses employed, so the doctor prescribes nurses' therapy to share them. But I didn't answer for it, but I answered for something else, and it's probably you're aware that among the prisoners there's a phenomenon called the ticking therapy. I hope you've heard what this is about, so it's that the prescribed therapy prescribed by the doctor is therefore all about the most tranquilizer pills are not swallowed but kept in the oral cavity, and then these pills are traded or collected in a larger amount, and then it gets drunk and then what the prisoner usually says cracks it. You're probably aware, and all of us are at risk of just that kind of squatting. I would personally be overjoyed if we were to be in a situation where a nurse or a medical technician shares the treatment prescribed by a doctor in a prison system in the jurisdiction of a judicial officer. It would be an ideal situation, but the situation isn't what I'm going to say more about when I get a chance to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52241	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52242	In two sessions, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered these three reports as a report on the work of the Ombudsman, which is still being written by the Ombudsman for 2012, so it seems official that we need to change this, the 2012 Report on the occurrences of discrimination and the 2012 report on the conduct of the national preventive mechanism for 2012. As regards the first report that all the three reports were carried out by the Committee, the Committee considered it to be a parent working body. In the debate on the first report, it was expressed satisfaction that by comparing the degree of respect for human rights in the Republic of Croatia with the situation in other European countries, the debate could conclude that we belong to countries that respect international human rights standards but, at the same time, to warn the Ombudsman that there are still a number of problems that make it difficult for citizens to fully enjoy the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and other regulations. The members of the board considered with particular care the findings of the Ombudsman's staff that certain problems in the exercise of human rights in the reports have been repeated for a number of years. These are primarily issues in the field of social care, citizens' status rights, problems stemming from the unresolved relationship between housing owners and tenants, then problems in the areas of labour and service relations and issues of housing in areas and outside the area of special state care, as well as problems of owners whose property was temporarily taken over by the state. There is a particular problem of unscheduledness, the frequency of observed irregularities in the work of the competent authorities, some of which are listed in the report under consideration. The Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union Fund, the Minister of Construction, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. Since they do not respond in due time to the requests of the Ombudsman, they are referred to complaints about their work. ... The debate was very long and contentious. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Finally, after the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority, to vote for, 6 for and 2 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions: 1. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2012 is hereby adopted. 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with, in accordance with the report by the Advocate General, with the reasons for the impunity in the delivery of the authority's testimony to the arraignment of the Advocate General, which directly violates the Law on the Ombudsman and makes it difficult to establish the basis of the human rights of citizens who address the Ombudsman. And three. Opinions, observations and proposals submitted in the debate on the report as well as observations, proposals, recommendations by the Advocate General given in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with powers more effective. As regards the second report on the occurrences of discrimination very briefly, the Committee also considered the report as a parent working body. It has been pointed out that despite the data showing that a record number of complaints on discrimination was received during 2012, it is still necessary to work on bringing citizens closer to the role of the Ombudsman’s office, because many citizens still see the institution as one who can alter judgments or interfere in all court proceedings which is not true. Despite the fact that the proposed report covers 17 discriminatory grounds listed in the Law on Discretion of Discrimination of Discrimination, which cover a number of areas of social, political, economic and cultural life, the Committee's members stressed that more attention would be paid to a number of issues not sufficiently covered and which should be considered as discrimination. The debate was also contentive, long. And finally, the conclusion was also with six votes for and two abstentions, the next conclusion was accepted. The report shall be accepted on... Discrimination for 2012 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the 2012 report on the performance of the national preventive mechanism. In the debate, the Committee also considered that report as a parent working body. In the debate, members of the committee specifically referred to data in institutions where persons were deprived of liberty and visited by members of the national preventive mechanism. Since three prisons have been visited, two detention units and detention facilities in the MUP and two homes for mentally ill adults, attention has been paid to the need for supervision and forced housing in psychiatric institutions against the will of the person or family member. Such cases have brought great attention to the public and to the committee, and they have been reported by both printed and electronic media, and it is about persons who, for example, pointed to crime and... or criticized the actions of some high officials in a way and through media that was not acceptable to them, or pointed to other socially unacceptable behaviours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, it is also pointed out that the forced placing of older people in such institutions, which in most cases preceded the withdrawal of business capacity and all with the aim of alienating their property. No quotes, no quotes. It is also proposed that the Ombudsman pay more attention to this problem, in particular to the authority of the national preventive mechanism, so that it can unannouncedly review the premises in which persons deprived of liberty are located and speak freely to them without the presence of an official or any other person who may provide them with relevant information concerning suspicion of human rights violations, behaviour in the body or institution to be visited. This debate was also as long and content as it is usual on our committee. After the discussion, the Committee also decided, with 6 votes for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a report on the performance of the national preventive mechanism for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52243	Thank you very much. Before I open the debate, I'd like to inform you that the agreement is to work today without a break, given the large agenda for today. So, with these three reports, we're going to discuss three other attorneys' reports. I'm opening a debate now. On behalf of the clubs, they'll talk for 20 minutes. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, colleagues Branko Vuksic and Nenad Plesa will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52244	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. When last week was marked a week's break, journalists asked why seven days of pause in a time of great crisis, which is why parliamentary deputies don't work. Then there was an explanation, and I'm glad that Vice President Dragica Zgrebec is here because she made a statement that because of the NATO plenary assembly, and the other thing is that we are actually very good at timing because we have solved almost all the points and that only the reports are in order. Now I'm going to say this report, first of all I thought, which is why I'm just now going to have a report from the attorney general, but then I saw that they almost gave it in time, that was April 25, 2013, I thought now the government got caught up, but it didn't. The government discussed it 13.6., so it took the government less than 50 days but it took the parliament 120 days. But that's good, that's a record. Now I'm going to tell you, we haven't discussed the 2011 HRT report that exists, for 2012, they said they didn't... they don't know who's giving the report, and the Parliament is silent as if it wasn't the Parliament, instead of asking why you didn't give the report. And the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council, the report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board, are 63rd and 64th points, which means it can be 2017 in turn. Then it will be for all these other years. So at a time when we haven't discussed it, when the mass of reports here stand, I think the public is rightly angry with the MPs, and that's not good. Therefore, neither was NATO justified because only a certain number of representatives were on NATO and we were supposed to work last week. What to say is, I'm going to go to just a report on the work of the attorney general, and this is actually Mr. Malcic's report. It is always an awkward situation when a duty is taken, and a report must actually be submitted for someone else, but Madam Attorney General Lora Vidovic has a pleasant task because I think it is a gentleman, we said in a report last year, or when Mr Malcic submitted the report to the Croatian Parliament, most of the clubs with praise referred to this report. Then I also spoke on behalf of the club saying that the report is one side of the medal, and what happens in reality is the other side of the medal and that it will be sad if it happens again in a year. Same thing happens in a year. A report on the problems that occur in the Croatian state and the response sent by the government to the occupier, who actually denies everything the arraignment attorney has referred to as major problems. So there's not even a hearing, you can't even admit that these are mistakes that the executive government makes or those are mistakes that the executive authority hasn't prevented. Then a year ago, I also said that it would not be a defeat of the Ombudsman's staff, or of the Ombudsman's staff, but of the Croatian Parliament, and it happened. What bothers Croatian citizens the most? More than poverty and poverty are plagued by injustice, you could hear it a thousand times say they are plagued by too many differences between the rich and the poor, that they are willing to give up the little one they only have to be in the Croatian society of more justice, that there are no equal or citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order. The report itself can express its praise and, in my report, little can be disputed, very deep and fissile in order to find some mistakes, and for the Croatian Labour Club, it is not a disputed acceptance of this report. However, it should be asked precisely in this place, Mrs. Vidovic said a strong mandate was given to the police defender. A strong mandate has been given here on paper. The government has shown it does not support this strong mandate, and the parliament does not support that strong mandate either. Why the occupier's attorney is no longer in public, that's the basic question. You know that everything people say today let me in the media to put pressure on politics and maybe it'll solve the problem. The other day I got a call from a citizen who said I have all the rightful judgments for the performance, a man who's a craftsman, who did ten years ago certain jobs and who can't charge. He said that you could help me, that's when I told him that politicians can't interfere in the judiciary and that I don't actually have any tools, but that I can recommend maybe institutions that can help him. That's when I mentioned the attorney general, then he said don't send me to complain about the water management. It is the perception of Croatian citizens. It's certainly not the public defenders' fault, but it's our fault that when the system's faults are established that we don't give strong support here and that in some way we don't punish the wrongdoers. What about those who don't respect the institution of the attorney general? They don't respect the Parliament, either, first of all, the Assembly, because the occupier is responsible to the Parliament. Now I'll probably read to you those who have read, but those who are not who do not respect the institution of the attorney general. The Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. Everyone does their segment. For this second segment that begins to work, which should be held accountable and which should be controlled in its area does not do its job, respects neither the attorney general nor the public, nor the citizens. Because citizens speak to the occupier when they are simply put on the wall and have no solution for their daily problems. So this is where Mrs. Laura Vidovic said all the problems. Now, we could repeat every problem to make one story at a time until it really strengthens the mandate of the attorney general, the same story will be repeated. If the leaders of these institutions were only removed for the first time because of the failure to respect the Ombudsman, then after a year the report was completely different. So let's not be hypocritical, let's not law-abiding here in the House, pass some laws that we don't follow afterwards, and certainly we don't respect this law. We will probably accept the report and return to the same problems after a year. There's one more thing that's very important, and it's still not about politics, and that's what you know that in disorganized society, Madam Attorney General, the public only hears a scream. In regulated countries, fine institutional action is possible. We need a scream, and that's how to break through the media silence. That's what you need to give the answer to, and I think that's my only grudge you can't be too quiet and too modest a person. You simply need to encourage the media to do what you do not because of yourself, but because of citizens who are talking to you to be more present and to put pressure on institutions that do not do their job. Thank you very much. Now Mr. Dance will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52245	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Advocates with an associate. I'll refer to the National Prevention Mechanism Report. Before us is the first report of the National Prevention Mechanism. Although the report is correct and I see no reason why it would not be supported by asking the purpose of the report and the purpose for which the National Prevention Mechanism was established. Why? The work of the National Prevention Mechanism shall be carried out by the Ombudsman, and shall consist largely of a tour of the places in which the person is or may be found deprived of liberty, and in order to strengthen their protection against torture and other cruel, inhuman, humiliating proceedings or punishment. After the visit, reports are drawn up with recommendations to be delivered to institutions and to the competent ministry, and for better insight into the things to be corrected. It should be pointed out that, in order to solve the problem, it is crucial to cooperate with the National Prevention Mechanism and the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System, which is currently not at a satisfactory level. For example, after visiting the prison in Zagreb, a public defender for the purpose of preparing a visit report from the Central Office of the Prison System Administration requested additional information. Despite the three rushes addressed to the Ministry of Justice by June 2013, the Ombudsman did not receive the requested information. The Ministry of Justice shows that it does not respect the Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings and sanctions, and also raises the question of the purpose for which the National Prevention Mechanism was established. If the said ministry ignores the request of the Ombudsman, then it is justified to ask a question about the purpose of carrying out a tour of the place where people are deprived of liberty. Co-operation with the Central Office must be promoted, and it is unacceptable to ignore the request of a vacancy attorney. The Ombudsman will inform the Croatian Parliament of the failure to comply with the recommendations, but then I ask what will happen to those who ignore these recommendations. The report notes that these are the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia which could cause violations of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. The biggest problem is certainly overcrowding the prison. Data from the 2012 report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and other institutions say that the population of the prison system was 125% on 31.12.2012. In particular, the total legal capacity in prisons was in the penitentiary and prisons in 2012 for the accommodation of 3771 prisoners, and 4741 prisoners were placed in the prison system on the last day of December 2012. Croatian prisons are therefore overcrowded and do not meet the legal standard of 4 m2 and 10 m3 per prisoner. The problem is therefore not only inadequate accommodation of persons deprived of liberty but also maintenance of security and order under such conditions. But also potential financial losses for the state. We can learn from the media that prisoners have currently filed 90 million kuna charges due to inadequate prison conditions as far as too little is concerned. Overcrowding of penitentiary and prisons and difficulties in meeting Croatian and international standards of accommodation result in frequent lawsuits of prisoners for damages before national and European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. So far, we have had a 10-point ruling from the European Court of Human Rights, which gives prisoners between 2 and 5 thousand euros. According to the European Court of Justice's assessment, the compensation is about 25 euros a day. In 2009, the government adopted an Action Plan to improve the prison system in the Republic of Croatia, which envisions the construction of a prison building in Zagreb for 382 prisoners, construction of a penitentiary and prison in Sibenik for 1270 prisoners. The fact is that the plan is failing or stagnating since activities related to the construction of a new penitentiary in Sibenik have been suspended temporarily. Otherwise, the construction of a penitentiary and prison in Sibenik was to open up 562 new jobs at the end of 2015. Money for the Sibenik Penitentiary, around 3 million kuna, is foreseen only in the 2014 budget projection, and in 2015 it should leave another 9 million kuna for the project. The government rejected the proposal to start investment in the penitentiary this year and to approve at least 6 million kuna for this purpose, which could start directly needed and extensive documentation. It is therefore doubtful whether construction will be started by 2016. Meanwhile, prisoner lawsuits are piling up, and the state will have to settle for objective damages due to the same circumstances. The big problem is the lack of an officer. According to the report on the situation in penitentiary and prisons, educational institutions, the Education Centre and the Diagnostics Centre, the Internal Order Regulation of the Ministry of Justice set up 4004 jobs for civil servants and tenants and at the end of December 2012, 1352 less than the established official and the tenant worked in the system. Unfulfilled jobs result in prison execution operations being carried out under extremely difficult conditions, which further contributes to the financial constraints of the state budget. Also, because of insufficient job filling, officials create a large number of overtime hours for which more than 12 million kunas have been paid. The following problem identified in the Annual Report on the performance of the work of the national preventive mechanism concerns the quality of health care provided to persons deprived of liberty. One of the greatest shortcomings is the insufficient number of health workers employed in the justice system. Especially those deprived of liberty rarely look at and operate wait longer than is medically induced. For the same reason, it is not possible to provide 24-hour coverage to healthcare professionals, which can also result in violations of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. A lack of needed medical attention has been observed, for example, from certain specializations, such as psychiatrists. The proposal of the National Prevention Mechanism is to consider improving the quality of healthcare provided to persons deprived of liberty in agreement with the Ministry of Health. For example, by organising the provision of health care from the justice system to the health care system. As regards the lack of healthcare professionals, I also found that doctors and nurses are less paid if they work in prison than they do in the public sector and are therefore difficult to decide to work in prison institutions. When we know that there is a lack of medical staff and in the public sector, then we realize that no one will report to health care services in the prison system. In addition to these problems in the annual report, it is indicated that there should also be an improvement of the rules since one of the possible causes is a violation of the rights of persons deprived of liberty and the lack of normative frameworks. For example, in the absence of compliance with the provisions of the Penal Code with the criminal procedure, it is not possible to execute a prison sentence for up to a year at home, thus reducing the pressure on the execution of a sentence, i.e. overcrowding in prisons. In July last year, the Constitutional Court partially abolished the Criminal Procedure Act since it violates many constitutional provisions and constitutional values and provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which relate to the treatment of persons deprived of liberty. Although the deadline for harmonisation has not yet expired, it is necessary to meet a number of positive obligations resulting from the said decision as soon as possible in order to remove the deficiency. Finally, the report also noted the need to make additional efforts to prevent violations of the rights of persons deprived of liberty and to specify measures and activities within the competence of individual ministries that can be significantly assisted by that objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52246	Thank you very much. We have replicas at the exhibition of colleagues, Vuksic. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52247	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Vuksic, here I will speak my replica to your part where you spoke of injustice. Indeed it is true, the Croatian people really feel unlawful, no longer knows who to address because injustice is unfortunately at every turn. So the injustice is among the young, and that is the worst injustice they are hopeless in how to get a job? Let us take, for example, the ministries of colleagues, Vuksic, for example, everything that was professional and what was good is downgraded. People went to any other job to avoid being humiliated by some who at the age of 37, 38 and 40 have completed political schools and some colleges and become assistants, and then some of them also don't know what to do or help ministers anymore, and some of them have only the third semester of the Academy of Youth or the HNS Forum, I don't know what their and some other stages of summer school get high-level seats. And what that young man who graduated in time, who's been looking for a job since 2008, is now 30 years old, wants to work and says he wants to move up the stairs, wants to get paid every month, wants to work to buy his apartment, to make his dream come true. What's he collecting? Today he unfortunately collects still only an internship on the stock market, he can't, he's not politically similar. It's unfortunate, it's an injustice and there are a number of other injustices in Croatia, and I think this one hit young people the hardest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52248	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52249	Dear colleagues of the twilight, yes, injustice is very much, and injustice is the most sensitive people, even more what I said in the debate than poverty. If Mr. Malcic wrote this, the attorney general or the attorney general warns about what you were saying at the competition. You know well that when we came here to the Parliament then he and the prime minister and all the ministers said we've got the power we'll take the people who suit us. The Institute of Competitions has been pushed aside, this is where it's being warned. You have the government's response to the remarks of the attorney general, and it's one such arrogant competition they don't need the authorities. I don't know who the competitions are for if the authorities don't need them. Just remember the HACOM case when the new director was elected, then I said, there are 300 young people who can do this job without a headpath. We took a man who's a suspect I don't know about different violations. Everyone has crossed even the people of the coalition ruling but they've raised their hands normally because it's party discipline. When I was talking about the other day that they hired all the gadgets, then Mr. Baranović was so boldly replicating that as I dare to make comments to them, there's no one from the HNS I don't know if there's any I apologize if someone's on call, yes, you hired everything that can walk, everything that has that academy of theirs finished, and that's a fact and we won't close our eyes. I said they hired a man for the head of the power plant of a man who was being watched by five men not to be electrocuted by electricity. And what we're talking about, that injustice. And I say the Attorney General warns of this injustice, but they don't want to close their eyes and ears to power. And they say it's social democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52250	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52251	You mentioned something that I think is also quite interesting when you analyze the phenomenon of the general existence of the Attorney's Office and of the staff, or of the attorney general, and of all others, the presence in the media. So that's something that we could also further analyze maybe you on your board. This presence can be recorded in clues, here and there only from time to time, and that is when a big problem arises. Here's yesterday, the child's attorney made a statement about this unfortunate case of raising an old couch off the street, so the workers of Purity noticed at the last minute on that couch a child. Hence, we can conclude much from neglecting children, abuse to of course the picture in which this family lives, etc. But only then, and only then, if there's a big problem, then the defense attorneys wonder. Can you remember some of the contacts on our televisions, on our radio stations where they were invited together or individually to elaborate on some important social topic. I think that the defense attorneys who have a great capacity at the end of which the state budget also invests large funds there work extremely professional people who can certainly always talk about the blood work of our society, there are none or anyone in the media sense treats them in the right way as they would deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52252	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52253	Dear fellow Members Kosor and the Ombudsman are working with the public, it is one of the basic tasks, then especially with associations that promote the interests of citizens, with the academic community, and most importantly perhaps the most important thing today is with the media. Unfortunately, the media do not recognize what we have said to citizens, and often because of the interest of owners, no texts are written, no shows are happening especially on HRT that should happen on injustices, on fates. We know how to call it the little people actually the biggest people who patch up the ending and who are struggling to survive, to feed their family on it. The Ombudsman should be on many HRT shows very often because there is something to say on many topics in Croatian society but it seems that we are not interested in solving the real problem, and that is, when I read the report then I see a part of the impotence which is also legal, and that is that there is no public defender or public defender to deal with court cases except in cases where these cases are extended, and forgive Croatia for mainly stretching court cases because in Croatia we are known to lead, we have the oldest case I think is about 40 years old, 35 is the second in a row, so 35 years has not moved from the dead spot. So it depends on us here how it goes, will it... to put pressure on both the different and the media to approach the attorney general's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52254	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52255	Thank you. You said Mr. Vuksic that all of us are somehow to blame for the current relatively weak status of the attorney general, i.e., in particular, the new attorney general and that she is not responsible for it. I don't agree at all, I don't feel responsible for her status and for her work at all, nor will I feel more responsible. The ruling majority gave it a certain, certain space, defined it and how loud it will be in the public first row will depend on how ready it will be to expose its chair and its place of conduct today. Therefore, if she is to be quiet and keep her place of work in the years to come, of course, no one will hear of her. Because, as a public defender, it is necessary not to pour milk from one vessel to another, but to clearly state what the problems, this society and those small citizens you mentioned are, and that is, of course, the problem that this public defender must always be confronted with the position. That's the problem and that's the awkward position. However, if you are, of course, as unhappy as you are chosen by the position, you may be happier if the opposition elects a civil defender in the Republic of Croatia regardless of who is in power. Because at this point, it's the attorney general who has to say that these tens of thousands of workers work but don't get paid. So if it is necessary to list 10,000 or 50,000 workers in the Republic of Croatia. Yes, these employees at these malls, at these locations work overtime, work a hundred hours and do not receive salaries for this overtime. Yes, it should publicly confront these problems and as a public defender, as part of the system not as an opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52256	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52257	My colleague Đurović must have heard a grudge from the Đurović attorney, I just told her that she was too quiet, that about her... No, it's the most responsible Parliament to allow the laws it lays down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The laws don't apply. I counted your bodies. The occupier has listed the bodies who are deaf to the remarks of the Advocate General. And now it's who? A council to punish those bodies. So who chose the government? I think you're turning things around. Yes, it's important that the attorney general in this case has the courage to confront with power. If it's going to please the authorities, it's just a fig leaf. That's why I said you should scream, and that's what I was talking about. It must not be too quiet, it must not be part of the ruling furniture. Because if the attorney general is part of the ruling set, then he doesn't make sense, then he needs to be abolished. That's where I fully agree with you. And that's my point, maybe it's not prominent enough. There are no innocents, and at least we're innocent here in the House, I don't mean in opposition, the opposition can't do anything, you know that we can only raise our voice, warn problems and help the attorney general is to encourage her to be loud and to address, she has in some things the right to address the Parliament not only about the annual report. And this should be done more often given the state in Croatia. And the situation in Croatia is such that soon 4 million Croatian citizens will need the help of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52258	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52259	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you have rightly warned your colleague Vuksic that there are no public defenders, and human rights, right to work, to freedom of speech, have never been violated more than in the last two years. And it can't go all on her soul. However, the fact is, when a journalist on your committee chaired by you says the situation on HRT is extraordinary and people are afraid to say it's enough trigger to have the attorney general react. If people are afraid to talk on HRT, then the condition is not good. And when the journalist who represents them says that, then it can't be information that's wrong. So what's the arraignment counsel supposed to do? It should stand as one moral vertical, as one pillar around which some sort of solution must be found. I can't keep these questions without an answer. If they warn that their private rights to e-mails, phone calls, everything we hear these days who are more invited to respond to such a violation of normal, simple human rights, the right to privacy so that you can do your job the way you think it's best. Did we hear the voice of the attorney general? We didn't. We're talking about the 2012 report today, but we get caught up in some events a day where the attorney general has a lot of work to do. We can't agree to someone writing a letter. The Attorney General warns, put it in statistics, report once a year to the government, once to the Parliament, do my day in the Parliament, and I've finished my work for that year. We need an attorney general who's going to stand out in public and tell us what's right and what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52260	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52261	Yeah, we need to explain what you said. Yesterday, Elizabeth Gojan, on the Media Committee, finished her presentation by addressing the Director General of Croatian Television and Mr. Chief Director, will I now be fired because of my opinion? Yes, there is fear in Croatian broadcasting. And the lady who was fired on Croatian radio television who had been fired without testifying and who was a witness in a criminal suicide trial received express notice for what Mr. Radman was doing for six months, and was not sanctioned because the position or authority protected him, because they said he should give an opportunity to work, but should not be given an opportunity. Yes, I agree with you, the attorney general in such cases should react, Elizabeth Gojan should not be addressed to her, but the attorney general should react and sensitize the public. So I'm from this place calling on the media, asking them to be more subtle towards human rights endangerment, to write about it, to help, not to deal with sensationalism only, to be absolutely sure that it will be..., just to be a little bit reorganized and that it is absolutely necessary for the attorney general to deal with relations on HRT because there are both professional and private, as you said, human rights, rights to unlimited work, rights to non-control of what is done. Watch out, the press will control whom journalists will send e-mails and who they will talk to. No one's ever said no, it's not like that, you're blowing that thing up. ... I care about time, I can talk as much as I want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52262	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52263	I, as an introduction to this debate, will make some principled remarks and contributions, and colleague Cain will continue this debate. I'm afraid this House has become "a factory of new laws and regulations ordered by the ruling furniture". As far as he can act on his own and work on what programme, that remains a major issue. It may happen to us because of a lot of regulations and laws that we make in that old saying, "We don't see trees from leaves." I fear that many of the rules adopted prevent us from seeing trees, to see principles, to see the right values, and to see these leaves cover those principles and those attitudes and those principles. Because of this vote of new laws, especially if it will not be implemented as we are today, it is actually a job without effect. Certainly, we will support as independent representatives the proposal for these reports, but with this to be able to put priorities into work, a Croatian Parliament should be freed for independent decision-making and legislation, but also clearly according to one adopted programme of work of the Parliament itself. When I talk about the principles of civil society, then we cannot escape the principle of a French revolution for which, on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the French Revolution, the peaceable Pope John Paul II said these are the evangelical principles. I agree with that, these are the evangelical principles: the question of freedom, the question of equality before the law and the question of brotherhood among people. It's the originality of evangelical views. If we do not develop this in Croatia, these principles of civil sovereignty and state and democracy then the adoption of empty laws will not make the principles themselves transparent. We therefore advocate the priorities to be discussed, seriously rehabilitate the role of the Croatian Parliament in life in Croatia. And there are other principles, purely anthropological, human principles that we forget, and we've reduced everything to regulations and laws. Rules and laws are important, there's no doubt about it, but they're not the only ones that matter. Civilization that forgets the values of man will not have a good future. We are an integral part of this civilization and I believe that without the restoration of these anthropological principles, we are not going towards a better future and we will not be able to address the challenges that life puts ahead. A man is a being of hope, a man is a being of faith, a traversing of the present, and a man is a being of love. These values are not spoken of at all. We can live without it, but then we see what the consequences are. These are values that should unite us all to promote spirituality and humanism, without competing in private hobbies being them and religious character. Yeah, you should love all people, it's a brotherhood among people. I'd like to make a statement I've heard here these past few days that you can laugh, so it's not all serious. When I gave a lecture, one came to me and said, "And you know the folk one." I say, "I've heard a lot of folk but which one?". He says, "They told a husband that he should love all his wife's children because he might be a child and yours." Well said, very briefly, but you should love all your wife's children. Maybe one of those children is yours. Thus, we may be rested on the other hand by making many laws, but we may wash our hands when others are not carried out and are held accountable. Because it is certain that he also emphasized his colleague Vuksic, an injustice and it is a sin against... equality before the law certainly offends the citizens and makes them depressed and not look optimistic in their future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's another comment on this subject Mr. Cain will make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52264	Vice President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. The occupier of the occupier received in 2012. 1849 complaints. Interestingly, no complaint applies to the Cyrillic. Interesting? For years, Cyrillic plates stood where they stood, no one bothered. And look at the wonders, all of a sudden A revolution is growing in Croatia because of Cyrillic. [[Intruding Zgrebec: Fellows and colleagues, let's not interrupt the speaker by talking.]] And you'd say that's the biggest problem in the country. But he didn't. See what the biggest problems in the country are – the judiciary 416 complaints, then pension, then the right to rebuild, persons deprived of life, construction, housing care. There are status rights from citizenship, residence, rights of foreigners, so denationalisation, housing relations clearly other property-legal relations, working, official, social care, municipal activities, and that I do not list anything else that simply stands in this report. The D.A. also pointed out the problem of poverty. She said that today is the World Day of the Poor. What do you say? We had 2 million employees in this country in the 1990s, today in Croatia works a million 450,000, and that's actually the point. And we can tie everything else to that because of the war, because of the transformation, because of the European crisis, because of the rise of the administration, but the fact that Croatia today does not have 500 or 550,000 jobs, and with that fact only in 2008 when we set fire to the crisis, we lost 150 000 jobs to today, and on the other hand, in the upgrade, it was employed somewhere around 30,000. There are equally serious complaints, but we can see that people are silent. They primarily concern employment, i.e. the privileges of individuals. When in Istria in September 2013, we have 600 unemployed more than in September 2012, as only then is elsewhere, and we are still talking about some sub-season. And in 2012, the same was more unemployed than eleven, eleven more than ten, etc. The small sector of which Mrs. Tyrelli was talking about is mostly craftsmen are almost out of breath. When I walk in Zagreb, then every third place, every third store is covered with those papers, which is a sign that they don't work. If so in Zagreb as the largest industrial, economic, financial, educational, such or other centre. If a 50 - or more - year - old person loses his job, he can only dream of getting a job in due course. It's especially difficult when a man loses his job, it's even harder when a single mother loses her job. Equally or perhaps even more difficult when the disability runs out of work, and what particularly offends like some MPs here mentioned when at any level when we talk about these social institutions, jobs are assigned by grandmother or uncles. And it doesn't matter if someone in power is in the local unit, regional or state. And it doesn't matter if it's about Istria, whether it's about Varazdin, Slavonski Brod or the Republic of Croatia. It's like you gave him 200, 300, 500,000 euros, especially if it doesn't work, and it's written to work. It's particularly difficult for those little craftsmen who put themselves in the business and the competitions see the furniture we all know, but no one wants to object because they hope that one day they will come to work. It's just as ugly when public money buys media affection, but I can see it's not too much to worry about. We have a series of lawyers. We've got a public defender, we've got a child counsel, we've got gender equality, we've got people with disabilities. Maybe they should be led into one of the defense attorneys in some way. Maybe we could cut costs through these forms. For years in this report, we've been coming across the so-called. protected tenants or tenants who are led here by this denationalisation, i.e. housing relations and a series of examples is here and apostrophysed. Yes, it's those people who, for 65 years or 55 years or 50 years, use under quotes once socially, and once there was a nationalized apartment where owners or after the purchasers realized their right to return. And these people who are in these apartments today are neither in heaven nor on earth. I mean these protected tenants or tenants. We all agree, I suppose, that nationalization in that second half of the '40s or '50s was evil, and wherever possible, people needed to be corrected by injustice. But what are we doing today? We are making a new injustice. I know that people are going to ask a question that's right stronger, is it stronger that property or household law? As the grouse of those whose apartment is nationalized for nothing was so not the tenants who are also in those apartments I dare say that they are not guilty of anything. I know many who appear to me who have made their dwellings for you today are both without each other. And suppose we live 60 years in one apartment, so that all those who got a social apartment can buy the same one and threaten you with permanent eviction. And the question is, where are your men going? You can clearly imagine something else, that someone's grandfather or grandfather has spent his whole life making sacrifices, deprived himself of everything and that he was '50. He lost his home, and he had to start living in some basement from the beginning. I advocate that these tenants are not being wronged, but also that the owners in one fair way are being treated realistically because what we have is only causing normal trauma. What's normal is, how are we when we're at these apartments, what did we do first? Croatia first returned the so-called so-called Confiscated apartments. Confiscated were those who were meaning to those who were tied to the regime, we know which, during World War II, NDH, and they nationalized the dwellings of those who did not fit in. Communist ownership criteria. Confiscated apartments were returned to Pavelic's daughter and not to list further the number of those whose real owners stayed in Jasenovac and so on. When it comes to denationalisation in Istria, as far as optanists are concerned, it is clear that everything is settled. We see now that there's no longer any dispute about DAILE which is good. In one word, optants must solve their problem in Rome, not Zagreb, but there are 5236 people who have received forgiveness from Yugoslav citizenship. The fate of their assets is nationalisation and the problem needs to be solved one day. The second thing is that there is no house of the optanans on those most picturesque hills in Istria, and that they are not sold for 10 to 20 thousand not euros but kuna, which has no oran and vineyards of those people, ornica is already state property, which is sold for 1 to 2 kuna. And that's what insults me, but I guess we'll end it too. As far as building good is concerned, it's getting more or less settled with legalization now. It is not fair that whoever worked under the quotes "wild" on agricultural land today is in an incomparably better position because building land costs as a rule 50 times more than agricultural land. As for Roma, I'll say that they are our finest so-called salampeduses to say in Italy some. Workers' relations, the public strike sector for higher wages, private when they don't get paid clearly but less and less because they see their employers living too. That's kind of the most in this report. We need to take clear care of employment without any benefits. Finally, we see that here we have 35 officials, 2 advisers, that the budget of 10.4 million kuna, 12.3% higher than in 2011 which is commendable in my court and through such a form continues because, in due course, the Ombudsman will have more than less work to do. And as we started or as the introduction's representative of the Labourist referred to that we hadn't worked under quotes "we haven't worked" for seven days. But gentlemen, look at this agenda that we're going to end today with the 11th point. There is also a proposal for half-yearly implementation of the budget, the Law on road traffic inspection, it does not matter, the Law on cableways, a proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, a proposal for a Law on Youth Tips and 4, 5 or 6 of the Ombudsman’s report for persons with disabilities, and then for children, genders, etc., etc. So you know what I'm gonna say? If you really want to prepare all these points, it takes you seven days and let's not spit on our own in the drink from which we eat. It's no problem taking a break if you've prepared it. The problem is, if you have 7 days and after 365, then you don't look back at anything, or you don't care. That's actually the problem. And the representative is a representative not only of the House but also of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52265	Now we're going to move on the replicas. First, at the presentation of his colleagues, Grubisic has a replica of Nenad Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52266	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you mentioned the French revolution of evangelical principles, equality among citizens. So our government cares about equality among citizens. Everyone has to pay the same contribution to health insurance now. I just got a letter from a pensioner in Rijeka saying what justice is when I, with a minimum pension, have to pay the same additional health insurance as the one who has a pension of 10 thousand kuna. Well, here's what we all have to pay for. We're all equal, but where there's equality and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52267	Now we're going to have replicas of a fellow Caine's exposure. Here you go, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52268	Thank you very much. You well said in your last sentence that we are all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in some way and public defenders. Every one who wants to be that person, each of you, each of us, has one, two, three plays a day where he intervenes through the official authorities of the state of public institutions for the injustices that are being done to our citizens and for which they appear to us, so we also get not only the public defender. This is the 2012 report, and the Cyrillic event imposed, artificially, therefore an artificial event produced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with its hasty or deliberate decision was made in 2013. And your speech about Pavelic, of Pontius Pilate, and of the injustices done is something that is not the subject nor of this debate about the public defender. In most other things with your presentations, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52269	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52270	I guess you won't be imputing that you didn't read this report, but yeah, I said a little before because I pulled the data. We have 35 employees, two subsistence officers in this attorney's office, so by the way, if we split those 1849 cases 52 cases a year. Surely each of us receives and not 150 but perhaps 550 citizens during the year, daily two or three, and we try to help each of us in some way. We succeed, someone doesn't, we refer someone to the attorney general, an accident to another institution because they make us advocates what we can and can do. However, when we talk about Cyrillic, Mr. Boro, the Cyrillic plates stood there until 2013 and thus in Vukovar in Vukovar, where the HDZ administration, while leading that city, brought or rather brought its statutes into line with the Constitutional Law which I do not know in this House, is the administration of Mr. Sanader at the time of HDZ President. What I think is good is that the headquarters has accepted today's talks with the prime minister, it is not good that Cyrillic creates a problem because Cyrillic is also a Croatian letter as well as a Serbian letter. Not once did I say that the Cyrillic had written certain documents in the 12th century in Istria. And finally, those who take it off should come to Istria and see what it looked like around 1900 when the Scarples collapsed Croatian or Slovenian inscriptions and can see what it looked like after the war when the inscriptions in Italian were also torn down. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52271	Thank you. Next replica Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52272	Thank you very much. I have a very simple question. Mr. Caine, you said that the hardest thing for a man to do when he loses his job is how do you interpret your macho attitude?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52273	The answer to the replica, but let's hear that answer. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52274	I said it's hard for a man to carry a family. It may not be my macho, or I don't know what kind of, patriarchal such a Croatian, Istrian, Istrian attitude, but I also immediately added it in that same sentence, and it's even harder for a single mother, and it's probably even harder for a disabled person to get a job and if he loses it afterwards, he can never find him again. But I've apostrophe that people who are 50 and over in a country where we've lost 500 thousand jobs in the last 20 years are almost "social lost" cases. I don't think that because of what I said in that working sense, lost cases are going to call me out because of some macho attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52275	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52276	Well, I have the same question here, so we thought, why is it harder for a man than a woman when she loses her job? There's one word where a person is told when a person loses his job and a man and a woman. And secondly, you said one lot to me was incomprehensible in your presentation, you said that these phenomena are causing normal trauma. What are normal and what are abnormal traumas?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52277	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52278	So we were raised to be somehow the man responsible for this family, no matter what the people say that three cantons in the house are held by a woman. But if anything, this right side agrees with me this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52279	Let's move on. A colleague of Vishnja Fortune's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52280	Thank you very much. ... It's not the same. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Vice President, I'd like to, I'd like to rephrase the presentation of Agent Cain in the part where you said it might be good to cut costs to connect these attorney offices. I wouldn't agree with that, I know there's been some conversations about it before. First of all, I would disagree, these reports show us how many citizens there are and how much they need, and I will also highlight the Ombudsman's institute for people with disabilities, but no, I don't single out anyone here. I would say it would be a good idea for us as parliamentary representatives to strengthen these institutes so that they can act better and better. In fact, in that part of the presentation that MP Vuksic said, in this way and that they can act in accordance with those laws that have been passed, etc. They simply work and act in accordance with the laws and we, as parliamentary representatives, are to be their wind in the back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52281	And Goran Maric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52282	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain would have answered your question if there were more unemployed in Istria in September of this year than in September of last year what is it like in the rest of Croatia? Much worse and much more unsustainable. 12 thousand people are more unemployed in all of Croatia in September this year than in September of the previous year and 40,000 more than in September two years ago. You further said that this was the case year-on-year in times of crisis that in 2011, the number of unemployed people was increased compared to 2010 and 2009 respectively. But you were wrong in 2011, there were 283,000 unemployed and a year ago 6 thousand more, 289 thousand unemployed. So in 2011, there was a decline in unemployment. How can those highly educated 37,000 unemployed feel and how those who had to emigrate to Australia or the United States for political and economic reasons after World War II? Even today, when they would like to return their capital, savings and pensions to Croatia that would certainly come well and spend their last years of their lives in their country where they could not have previously introduced a special income tax and took a tax on their pensions. And that's why they won't come to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52283	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52284	Among other things, because of what was happening there in 45 or 50 years, which is why our fellow citizens, emigrated, in the '90s, we crashed, under quotes, "destroyed" one structure and one system. Unfortunately, things haven't changed since the '90s. Our people have emigrated all this time, all these 20 years, and the road mentioned in Australia, and God has been moving more and more over over the years to North America or rather Canada. When we talk about the number of 12,000 more unemployed this month, I'm sorry, in the last month compared to the same period last year, it agrees that it is elsewhere in Croatia and more difficult. But if we have 600 more unemployed in Istria last month compared to the same period last year, then the trend is identical. Because Istria has 4.5% of the population and that's about it. The same is true in Istria, today when we talk about unemployment as it is elsewhere, although I agree that economic social opportunities are above all due to the legacy that the '50s, '60s, '70s in Istria are something better than elsewhere. The one who worked, who could have reached one or two apartments if nothing else could live today, but the one who does not have that additional source of income to him in Istria is as difficult or harder than the one who lives in Slavonski Brod because if nothing else prices of food are incomparably higher than in Slavonia, Međimurje or Zagorje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52285	And the last replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52286	Dear colleague Cain, I don't know how many days it takes you to.../The speaker shut down and then turned on./... at the pay phone but the fact that it's a shame to have a report from Croatian Radio Television as some colleagues mentioned in 2011 which we haven't discussed in this House yet. Out of huge public service concerns and public television. We're worried sick. We've changed the law at hoc to do what some of your colleagues now call an ideal condition and it's actually the twilight of a public media service. And in that variant, you say that it's really good here that this point is 60 and let's say that we had a break because where are we in a hurry? Watch the 2011 report. 2011 The 2012 report has not yet been reported, yet none of the responsible have thought to begin to draw them up, but then it is our problem, dear colleague Cain. Whether we need 7, 5, 2, 3, one day or one hour is absolutely irrelevant. If you want to, if yours is not very interested in human relations on Croatian television then at least make sure that it is one of the largest public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia over 3,000 employees operating on the basis of the subscription or money of these citizens. Well, at least we're taking care of it, at least that's how much we should make that here with a year and more, almost two years behind, we discuss the usual report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52287	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52288	Who said anything about Croatian radio? I didn't say a word to her. But okay, I agree. I need some time to prepare for one debate but I see that some MPs need not 365 days but 365 days times 4 years to prepare for one debate. And speaking of this HRT, here's the chief advisor, the boss... who's doing an interesting pro bono on that HRT, and in some other units local self-government is taking care of every fee. Exactly, HRT as you said is state television and we as a Parliament are primarily, public television pardons, pardons and as a Parliament are responsible. Someone was talking about personality control. Of course, absolutely inadmissible. If there is fear on HRT so understandably that this should be changed, so I guess that public service paid through the subscription of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia should be free. I have the impression that if someone is exposed often and even to baseless criticism on that same HRT, public television, maybe it's normal, are ruling. But also interesting, since you're already mentioning a number of three or three thousand people you said from the '90s. The year to this day in the office of directors appointed by this Parliament when you had most of them and there they came to their brother in 2000. And what democracy looked like between then and that HRT in the '90s or from 2003 to 2011, then it should be left to our citizens, viewers to judge for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52289	Thank you very much. Perhaps the next debate will help us get back to the agenda point, which is the 2012 report on the work of the Ombudsman with two other associated points. So I invite my colleague, Antu Babic, to share time with a colleague, Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney general with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. A 2012 report on the work of the Ombudsman, such as in the final remarks, was considered necessary by the applicant for this report to point out the latest in the eight-year term of office of Mr Jurica Malcic's former staff lawyer. As a result, the question arises immediately at the outset whether the evaluations, views and recommendations contained in this report may be tied up and relied on the name of the former Ombudsman, or in this report, contained the opinion and recommendations and current holders of the duties of the Ombudsman, i.e. whether the implications can be drawn from this note, that, in the coming period, and for 2013 the Office of the Advocate General with the new Ombudsman and her deputies will, in a different way, refer to the work of the Ombudsman's Office and will receive different reports for this year and the following years and methodological and content reports on the work of the Ombudsman. It is easy to see that both reports are made in a completely methodological manner and that the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms and the rule of law is considered exclusively through complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. If the statistics on the 2012 work of the Ombudsman are seen, it can be seen that they are also very similar to those of previous and previous years to the number of complaints received, conversations with citizens and measures taken by the Ombudsman. Likewise, as regards the conduct of the relevant bodies for the delivery of evidence on the requests of the Ombudsman, the situation is even worse than the previous years and, as bodies which are not up-to-date, the Ministry of Regional Development and the funds of the European Union, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Justice and the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the bodies that are not up-to-date. It is easy to conclude that the number of complaints and the largest in the areas covered by the apostrophyd ministries, i.e. the authorities of the state administration, is the number of complaints and the largest in the areas covered by the apostrophyd ministries. It is interesting that this highlighted remarks by the Ombudsman on the impeccability of the conduct of certain ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion on this report did not even look back. If we look at the number of completed and established complaints, which is 372, it turns out that the number of complaints made is almost negligible, which does not mean that any case of endangering the constitutional and legal rights of any citizen in the Republic of Croatia is negligible. On the contrary, the constitutional and legal right of every citizen is extremely important and should be given the utmost attention. However, on the basis of such a relatively small number of people received, and particularly justified complaints from citizens, it would be wrong to draw a conclusion on the high level of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens, because we all know that every day we can hear, in the work of the state, local, judicial and general public administrations in general, it is still unsatisfactory and that this unreformed public administration is an obstacle to achieving the Constitution of guaranteed rights of Croatian citizens. This relatively small number of complaints in our opinion points to the fact that the Ombudsman is not yet known enough among Croatian citizens as an institution that would act as the authority of the Croatian Parliament and as a true protector of all constitutional and legal rights and Croatian citizens, which we also spoke about in that report last year. It is necessary here to point out another fact that has also been pointed out in the Ombudsman's report, that some of the problems that have been the subject of previous reports have been repeated in this report and that the situation has not changed. These topics include, for example, issues in the field of social care, status rights, housing issues, state officials' status rights as well as in the opening statement, mentioning the day of the poor today, even though this report is not particularly mentioned in this report. The reason for this, as stated in the Ombudsman's report, should also be sought in the fact that there is insufficient promotion and public awareness in the company for strengthening human rights in the Republic of Croatia. The question arises to what extent and in what way the attorney general, i.e. the institution of the Ombudsman, who, according to the current normative arrangement, has become the central national institution for the protection and promotion of human rights, is indeed acting in the field of promotion and strengthening of public awareness in society, in creating preconditions for strengthening and protecting human rights in the Republic of Croatia. In this context, in some areas of respect for the human rights of Croatian citizens, a certain deterioration of the situation is also noticeable. Thus, a noticeable increase in complaints about the conduct of police officers who referred to a non-professional and unethical attitude towards citizens on the groundless and excessive use of measures of coercion, as well as failures or biased treatment in determining the character of criminal offences has been observed. It is also important to highlight the selective approach of the Ministry of the Interior when checking the residence in this year, so that in certain parts of Croatia, a detailed check of the residence was carried out, as was the case in Vrgorec and elsewhere in the Dalmatian hinterland, while in other areas this verification was carried out only in a slow way or was not carried out at all. All of this was reported by public communications, however, as far as I know the Office of the Public Prosecutor in this obviously discriminatory manner did not react and was obliged. We have also witnessed a massive violation of the human rights of parents in the course of the adoption of the Health Care Curiculum, which the Ombudsman did not respond to at all and in this report only mentions in one sentence which states that the Ombudsman has received only one complaint indicating that the introduction of the curricula into primary and secondary schools is contrary to the provisions of Article 64(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which a parent has the right to decide independently about raising his children. There is no response to the Ombudsman's behaviour in his report. In addition, we are witnessing the constant growth of the number of blocked accounts of Croatian citizens and the growth of debt in these blocked accounts, the implementation of the financial implementation, as well as the properties that are used for the housing of Croatian citizens, where human rights are clearly violated and where, because of such massity of human rights violations, the public defender would have to react. Cases of troublesome and generally illegal references to medical institutions have also been recorded, a psychiatric hospital that was not responded by the attorney general. In last year's report by the Advocate General during the debate on the 2011 report on the work of the Ombudsman, we pointed to the disability of employment in the authorities of the state administration without conducting the public tender procedure. At that time, the attorney-general of the former in his report almost justified the replacement of senior civil servants appointed to those places after the public tender procedure, and justified the appointment of management officers without holding a public tender. However, from the previous period, it is apparent that the number of appointed civil servants or state officials has increased dramatically during the term of office of this Government, and that the so-called officials manage the most complex processes in the system of state administration without adequate professional training and the necessary work experience and that employment by the criteria of political similarity in public and state services and public enterprises has become a rule. However, the public defender, i.e. the Ombudsman, does not react to this phenomenon although such employment is prohibited under the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination. Employment of similar personnel is precisely a direct violation of legal provisions that are not spoken of in the report, and we consider this a great lack of this report that we are discussing today. We believe that it is of paramount importance to discuss these phenomena and not to ignore them, but it is not enough for the lady to talk but to put forth efforts to change these discriminatory patterns of behaviour. It is good that the civil defender reacts to the appearances of religious discrimination by members of minority religious communities, but should necessarily respond to the occurrences of discrimination and the insult of religious feelings of members of the majority religious communities and to the appearance of Christian phobia. Because, according to us, the point of view that is manifested every day is wrong, that only minorities and only members of minority groups can be discriminated against. And we are witnessing that both the majority communities and their members can be exposed to discrimination and hate speech to which they must react, and there is a need for the pro-active role of the attorney general, i.e. the attorney general. And finally, I would like to point out that the Office of the Public Prosecutor should not only speak of human rights through the prism of individual complaints which he is taking into account in his work, but should also point out the occurrences of violations of human rights and the occurrence of discrimination arising from the means of public disclosure as well as from the Law on the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52291	The debate on behalf of the HDZ club continues, a respected colleague, Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52292	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General. Here I am speaking in part two on behalf of the HDZ Club but actually my debate is in some way a follow-up to the debate held by a colleague on behalf of the Labour Club. What makes me very happy is that he and I, in fact, have equally detected the problems that arise in the prison system and talk about them here today in the Croatian Parliament for reasons why we believe that this system is going along the border, along the edge to crack and that things that no one would want to happen. But what I would especially like to look back on about this report is that the Ombudsman ordered through the National Prevention Mechanism to implement certain measures to improve living conditions in the prison system. What worries is that, I'm going to quote the sentences in that report, "co-operation with the Ministry of Justice is assessed very badly. Not only has it not taken action on the recommendations addressed but it has not delivered the requested information to the ombudsman of the occupancy." And here's what the National Prevention Mechanism asked the Justice Department to do. Under 1st, he called for a reduction in overcrowding of the prison system, under 2nd improvement in the provision of health care to persons deprived of freedom in the prison system and 3rd removal of normative deficiencies. In addition to this report at this session of the Croatian Parliament on the agenda are the 2012 Ministry of Interior Work Report and the Justice Department report on the state and operation of the penitentiary offices, institutions and educational institutions for 2011 and 2012 which also a colleague from the Labour Club spoke and mentioned here. The Home Affairs Minister's report does not mention the measures listed by the Ombudsman, and there is a particular chapter on this subject in the Justice Department's reports. I'd only quote a few passages, and they refer to what's most important, and that's a lack of money in the health system. So 100 claims for compensation from prisoners were received during 2011. The most claims for compensation for damages relate to the conditions of accommodation. 29 inmates of the claimant for damages did not specify the amount sought on the basis of the compensation for damages, and the other prisoners were looking for 51 million and 936 thousand kuna, so 2011. Taking into account the claim for damages suffered in 2008 with the date of 31 December, 283 prisoners seek an amount of 86 million and 900 thousand kuna. It is mainly about requests for a peaceful settlement of the dispute lodged by the inmate's authority to the competent municipal state attorneys. So, a penitentiary in the Clay mentioned here on several occasions, its cost of construction was somewhere around 72 million kuna. Prisoners seek even greater amount as compensation for damages and sue Croatia not only to the domestic judiciary but to continue. During 2012, 343 claims for compensation were received by prisoners. The most requests have been made again because of the conditions of accommodation but it is interesting to say in the 2012 Report not to mention the amount of claim per complaint as stated for 2011. The report also indicated that 2335 jobs were systemised at the Ministry of Justice on 31 December 2011, and 1597 officials were filled. The maximum safety risks are related to the scope and complexity of the business due to insufficient number of insurance officers, increased number of prisoners compared to capacity, lack of adequate equipment for material and technical protection compared to architectural solutions, increase in the number of prisoners treated in public health institutions and a negative atmosphere among prisoners. The negative atmosphere among prisoners is the result of the accommodation of a large number of inmates from different social environments with different cultural habits and different educations in a small space. It is therefore a quote from the 2011 report on the work of the penitentiary. It is also very similar for 2012, so it was systematized 2279, filled in 1576. The problems remain the same. The rebalance of last year's budget amounts, and most of the prison system mostly receives money from the state budget, around 92%, hence the rebalance of last year's budget intended for the execution of the prison sentence has been reduced from 538 million to 469 million kuna. The 2013 budget plans 453 million kuna. The decrease in 2014 goes to 439 million kuna compared to 2011 is a reduction of 99 million kuna. The deficit of income, hence the debt transferred in 2011 was 45 million, and in 2012, that debt goes up to 58 million 910 thousand kuna. So the prison system went in with that money with 530 million and it couldn't, it had minus 45, now with 439 as it could, right? The fact that there are no new accommodation facilities for persons deprived of liberty in the State budget for 2013 is even more alarming than the construction of a new penitentiary in Sibenik is planned only in the projection of the 2014 budget of 3 million, while in 2015, in the amount of 5 million although this Assembly approved a loan for the construction of the Sibenik Penalty. Of course, Madam Attorney General that the Ministry did not respond to your haste because they would have to tell the truth that the prison system in the Republic of Croatia will remain short of 100 million kuna from the state budget for the next three years. That debts are being accumulated and that it's only a matter of time before suppliers stop supplying energy and food to the prison system. And we see from the report that these amounts are over 30 million and one and the other. The HDZ Club considers this report technically correct but clearly that the system of the National Prevention Mechanism does not yet work, and thus the picture of the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia is not what we would like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52293	Thank you. Now we move on to an interesting practice of replicating our own club, which will be initiated by Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And I think discrimination is these all of your comments when we move to replicas, it's number one. And my replica will refer to your part of the presentation in which you said that the attorney's office would all, of course, be the attorney general at the moment, although we were talking about the report by the veggie attorney should be a little more public and raise our voice because in society there is one lethargy. People don't know who to turn to, they don't know who's gonna help them. This hour is the poorest and most destitute, and they are so poor that most of them do not have bread, and hopelessly it is because the state orders a colleague of 40 tons of pasture that these poor people who do not have bread will receive only in case of a natural disaster. I've already asked the same pâté as if it were bought in the most expensive delicacy store. Do these poor ones have to pray to God for an earthquake, a flood, or something to get their hands on those pâtés? Raise your voice, raise your voice of proactive irregularities, against such irregularities in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52295	You're not replicating your lawyer. You're replicating your colleague Anti Babic who didn't say anything about pâtés, but let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think the raid is in place, and I'm sure as hell not going to talk about what you suggested I talk about. I could take the same measure back, but I don't want to, and I won't because it's not my level. But what you were talking about, colleagues, twilight, is the truth is that the attorney general in her report and looked back, and she mentioned the day of the poor that today is marked the Day of the Poor, and that's certainly good. And we also said in our report through the HDZ Club's report and warned about what was right and fair and fair to lead the more proactive role of the attorney general and in such things as I hope the attorney general in the future will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52297	The next replica of the HDZ club is Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52298	You've noticed very well, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Babic's noted well that he had only received one remark from one parent regarding changes in education and education, and so on. sexual education, let's call it a Colloquial. It seems that the Ombudsman had problems both with hearing and with vision and with speech because what to say after we were able to watch parents' riots all over Croatia every day, which ultimately resulted in 750 thousand citizens' signatures just about this question, what to say about how this defender actually acted, or we could call him actually the defender, whose lawyer he was, in fact, the defender. That's one thing. The second thing, you also noted about hiring similar to those in public enterprises, you said in that problem that was not at all highlighted which was actually supported by the former actually defender. And I will now give an example from today’s media that is talking about the continuation of this work and what is the result of such defence and actually defending the ruling coalition. The title screams "Minister Vrdoljak and his godfather Šerić HNS personnel appointed as directors, nepotism in HEP stronger than at the time of Cacic" and says "The President of the Croatian Electric Economic Union, the last pearl is Branimir Velić who was in HEP and went to Holding now returned to HEP, etc. We are sick and tired of political-like people being hired while employees who have been here for years are being fired." Since the time of Cacic, they have been employed in this way, etc. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52299	Thank you very much. The replica matches Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52300	Thank you very much. Comrade Matusic, we have warned of this and we have kept speaking from this assembly that the introduction of a health care curricula is not in line with Article 64(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I am sorry that it has made it deaf for the Ombudsman, and for the sake of that, the Ombudsman for the children. Although after the Constitutional Court he made a decision and only then did he actually respond. And what you're saying about the Ministry of Economy and the mentioned person, we said that it's not good that it's already become a practice for the Kukuriku coalition that the institution of the public tender has been offended and that people in the state service are being admitted without public competition, without working experience and without knowledge and skills which is certainly not good, and is reflected in the whole bad economic situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52301	Next replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52302	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm also going to replicate my teammates from the club because it's necessary to tell the public what's going on because the attorney general doesn't have that power, I don't know why, there's no way that she's obviously not allowed to stand up for all those who have been violated by their human rights on any basis. Unfortunately, we just record what happened in a year how many people complained about how many bodies were warned and that's it. However, the facts are devastating, especially in the staffing that has come to this level that the word incarceration gets full meaning and meaning. Because how to explain what happens in the Croatian highways where a new company is now being created that will be run by three management members, 6 directors and 183 different bosses. How to explain what counterpart Matušić said in HEP that another member of the board is now being introduced, 6 directors and watch out for this 7 assistant board members. Seven assistants with 100. And at the same time we fire 1422 engineers, installers, operatives, and we're talking about restructuring the company. I mean, that's sad. Not to mention increasing the number of officials you mentioned in your presentation from 80 officials in 2011 to 143 at the time of this government. No one's responding. Not to mention those who were brought into the cabinets of ministers without a public tender, without a public tender, they are measured in hundreds, no one knows them, except on salaries. We can't even find out how many there are. Because it's an explanation that they're leaving with power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52303	Thank you. The next replica honours Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52304	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Babic, so here I am now going to continue and show myself in my replica for more important presentations where you talk about hiring the likes and how the attorney is... She didn't show enough mentioning the former attorney general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you forgot and entered the 2011 report. And there are those of us who remember here for a little while longer because you didn't mention the report for 2010, 2009 or 2008 of the same former lawyer who you as a club never accepted here, but you took it into consideration because he was extremely critical of something that you made assistants and heads of state you brought as a policy, so members of the HDZ and then you changed the law and translated them into state officials. And expected, that's what your former attorney-in-law warned you about. That's why you didn't even pay attention to him, but you accepted his report for knowledge. Don't you think it's fairer for the assistant ministers and directors of different administrations to come with politics, so when that policy eventually comes down from power to go with it? You also know this very well about the part about ministers’ advisers, or in certain ministries. It's far more honest than what you've done that you've wanted personnel who are your staff, the HDZs that you've brought to such places, then by amending the law, you've translated them into executive staff of civil servants and, like any authority that comes after that, you should keep them. Well, now tell me what's more honest. Is it fairer what we've done if you come with politics with that policy as part of the state administration and you leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52305	The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Sobol will not enter the previous '09 reports. In '08, '07, however, or we can start over, it doesn't matter, we're talking about this report now, and we know that for this report, a colleague of mine, or the attorney general, presented a report from a colleague of Malcic. About what you're saying, I don't think it's true what you're saying about employment while HDZ was in power, however, But the institution of a public tender, don't you think someone who reports to a public tender has the possibility of legal protection? [[Intruder: Please do not throw.]] This is the meaning of a public competition but not to hire similar to that, and to people without the working experience of knowledge and skills. You have the latest case,... in one ministry, it seems to me at the ministry of Miranda Mrsic that it now happened almost a week or two ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means no work experience and no knowledge and no skills. And I understand it's hard to defend indefensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52307	A new replica of respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52308	Dear colleague, you speak at the most complex administrative places you bring people without a competition. Should it be for you when you get the authority to appoint ministers and you and that coalition when you get to name them. And that's what you're saying, please, that's what you've been changing here to the extent that the staff are here, that's what you've been staffing the Assembly for. That's one thing. The least of it is that you've brought similarity to that they were capable. And it's not that you're similar, it's that nobody even resented you anymore, it's something that's quite normal, it's the way you run it because you ran that power as a single locomotive, the composition in principle similar to forwards remained standing. We saw where you brought us. And what special assignment did they have? A part of the likes of the employee should not have worked at all, remember Buljubashic,... The man is busy, he knows you, come on, that's what the people have been Googled to. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just that you've had so much to say to each other. That they didn't work for you at all and the other part had a special task to steal. [[Please, no throwing, please.]] The tall ones, therefore, the tall ones who were set up in certain affairs, well now they're in court, now they're unwinding, they're penitent and they're saying what they were doing for Sanader. Those who have experienced such appointments with the tide of wealth, though many of them now have a mere memory of morality that we do not even speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52309	The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52310	Comrade Antičević-Marinović, I think you are the last in this House to talk about morality and honesty, just remember your husband and I still don't want to talk. However, it is not good to qualify in this House, probably everyone has a name and name, and yesterday in Split, a member of the SDP County Committee in Split, seems to me, was dean of the Faculty of Law, but it doesn't matter at all. I've warned of something that's not good and you as a lawyer have to admit that without a public tender institution no one, no one has the right to judicial protection. What you did certainly does not serve the honor but it is also in the conflict of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, which is why the attorney general should speak and play this more proactive role, stronger. And I think some colleagues have spoken here in the Parliament that perhaps the vehicular attorney should be elected from the opposition's ranks. It's less important, I think your place is honorable and that you should be very alerted to these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52311	We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52312	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 235 concerning the pronunciation of measures 238. You, sir, if you can call yourself that you can't make anything up for me... Please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, allow me. You know what I'm gonna say. So you're calling that I don't have to talk, that I'm the last one who can talk here... because that's my husband, etc. Now I'll tell you. You are not worthy at all to mention by my husband's own morale, who has been consciously for years and under the threat of guns and bombs defending others, and for that excess that he was three years old he didn't even work, and there was no procedure at all because for those words alone in that broader context, that code was forbidden. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52313	Time. No injured Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 235, which speaks of the representative being called upon to answer the speaker’s question as soon as he finished his speech. ... Therefore, he was not injured... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the Parliament, sometimes harder words are spoken, one who reaches out for those weapons must accept the risk of being hit by them. Comrade Ante Babic, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52314	... to deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here you are...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52315	Yeah, that article was hurt, but you hurt him. You hurt him. We're moving on with the replicas. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your opening statement, you mentioned how the former Advocate-General very kindly looked at the amendment of the Law on the System of State Administration when he almost accepted the fact that public competitions and political similarities were lifted for the most complex jobs in the system of state administration, and often there was a lot of nepotism in these appointments. When we talk about the most complex jobs in the state administration system, then these public procurement jobs cannot be reached by people who haven't spent their entire life in the system of state administration, primarily because of work experience, because of progress, because of the passing of certain exams. Therefore, it is not true what Mrs Sobol and Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said that we former assistant ministers were renamed directors of the administration. That's not true because it was just the former civil servants who passed through the ministry a number of years later in competitions where, as you yourself said, there was the possibility of a complaint appointed to the director of the administration. But not only that, when the Kukuriku coalition came to power, it said it would reduce the number of state officials, so it abolished state secretaries. And if you were to add up the former HDZ officials, the total number of government officials was 80, and today there are 140, today 143, with a tendency to come to 200. And not to mention what's going on with public enterprises, which is the political party resemblance and nepotism, the data that happens in HEP, in JANAF, etc., etc. is best spoken of. So you rightly concluded that...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52317	Thank you very much. The replica matches Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52318	The attorney general had to look back on this part...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52319	Your friend's out of time, so you can see for yourself at the traffic light. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's true to my colleague Bačić, you don't need to repeat yourself about it. As they do, however, it should be reiterated here because this is a report by the Advocate General, that the Ombudsman, and also under the Law on the Ombudsman in Article 5, says that in the field of promoting human rights and freedom, the Ombudsman monitors the situation and points to the need for their protection, while carrying out certain research, analytical activities, develops and maintains the database and documentation, as well as timely and regular information to the public and interested participants, actively encourages and maintains cooperation with civil society organisations, international organisations, scientific and research institutions, and encourages harmonisation of legislation with international and European standards and their application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52321	Replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52322	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, you spoke of blocked accounts and discrimination in the process of blocking accounts. So discrimination in the economy has become so pronounced, it has already become unsustainable that it has become an obstacle to maintaining economic activity, let alone increasing economic activity. It is expressed on all segments, from market to state institutions, companies and institutions. Let's just take the example of HEP as it refers to certain business entities, as the Croatian forests refer to certain business entities, as the Plinara Vodavod. Some are forgiven, some are charged with heavy interest. How do banks treat individuals? To the same persons in the same economic activity, credits already granted to some simply increase interest rates twice, and they reduce some. This directly discriminates on market entities. And the discrimination against employment is that we don't talk. Here, just in 6 months, 131 people were employed in HEP, 18 of them in directorial posts, and most of them from Sibenik, Karlovac to Požeg are presidents of the county organisations of ruling parties. And the biggest form of discrimination in the Croatian economy is the pre-departure settlement procedure. What has been done with this has been hampered by economic activity, it has led to job layoffs even though it is a cover of saving jobs but it is about saving individual owners of companies, individual shareholders, individual jobs, and it is because of them that it goes even more unemployed to the Employment Office, it does not care about them. The most discriminating phenomenon is legally legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52323	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52324	Thank you very much. My colleague Maric, it's true. The pre-war settlement will certainly be the main topic in the 2013 Ombudsman's 2013 report. But you mentioned more, I think it's a problem for the attorney general she's supposed to be talking about, which is 336 000 unemployed people, then 1,000 people who are out of work every day, 2500 families who are waiting for action because of the performance and about 250,000 of those whose accounts are blocked, etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52325	Thank you. Next up is a replica of Furia Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52326	Thank you very much. Mine is a replica of the methodological nature. You said Mr. Babic should protect the majority, because most of them can be discriminated against and most of them, yes. You see large groups of people, large groups of people, for example the Catholic Church. She was discriminated against safely during total societies and not only communism as it is commonly said but also Nazism and fascism as you well know. Such discrimination is therefore possible, but such discrimination is also possible for women. Such discrimination exists, such discrimination exists and possibly exists, for example in South Africa, according to a majority of the population, which is at the same time, and this was the most visible representation of the minority by rights. Because the minority in these cases is determined by rights, not by numbers. So it wasn't the minority, it wasn't the minority white part of the population in South Africa, it was the black part of the population. Women are not the majority when they are discriminated against but are a minority when they are discriminated against, not members of a particular faith most when they are discriminated against but minorities. In other words, when you're discriminated on, you're always a minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52327	Follow the replica. You didn't sign up for the answer. Look at it this way, Grandmother. We both looked forward to you, tensely, so you wouldn't point out my objection. We've been looking at both of you concentratedly. I don't. Look, I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Radin: But it would be interesting.]] I have no reason not to give you my word. But having a concentration problem isn't my fault. There's a new replica coming up. This time at the presentation of colleagues Shanteka, Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52328	I have a replica of the club and I don't care who suits me. So first of all, I'd say that many at the HDZ Club are using an uncivilized method, they're not responding to the person who sits here, the representative, or the one who talks, but to one of his tattoos, relatives or anyone. Gentlemen, look into the eyes of him whom you speak and speak. He answers only what he did for himself, and you used the argument to speak of another person and it's not correct. You lived in the West, you know it well. It's another thing. You're talking about political resemblance. Well, I'll tell you, I wasn't like your party to be in this House in 2000. I had an insight into the records. 11 reports sent from a certain service about me to its headquarters in Zagreb, and you know what was written on paper. Anti-constitutional and anti-state activity. I was already in my second term here. Those were the services that I was supposed to oversee as a parliamentary representative, and they were watching me. I had no right to work. I won't even talk about my family. I won't talk about my family. I won't talk about my family. I'm sorry they lost their jobs in the words of Jurjevic in this town will never be able to work again. That's what one of the oldest Split families said. That's what I'm telling you because you're talking about political resemblance. I won't talk about those who weren't alike to live. I hope that after the change, the Constitution will find out who killed those people in Split, among them a priest and that they will raise your hand everywhere and for that. Any di, any island, anywhere. Raise your hand for it, and don't drink and do everything against changing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52329	Time's up. Now, here's the deal. Before the answer you're entitled to, we have reported injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, colleague Ivan Shuker. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52330	Look, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, since you've introduced a rule here that it can only be replicated if two people speak for the club, and that's nowhere in the Rules of Procedure. So if I don't want to break the Rules of Procedure, then I have to apply to Article 235, which is closest. So, in his debate, Jurjevic is probably provoked by something, and I don't want to go in there, it's his right and his personal and as a representative. But he didn't replicate one or the other HDZ agent at all. Probably knowing your temper that it was someone from HDZ you would react. So I therefore consider Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, but I say I refer to Article 235, because there is nowhere defined in this Rules of Procedure that if two representatives speak on behalf of the club that it must be accurately replicated to that part. So, the club is a club. How many people will speak for him is another plan. Therefore, I refer to Article 235. I suppose my colleague Jurevic has been hit with some debates since yesterday, but I'm also giving him the human right to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52331	Time's up. First, let's clear up who has the right to answer on behalf of the club. Well, I can't if my colleague Jurjevic lifts his line the moment he tells his colleague Shantek to give Babic a reply to that replica. Does that make any sense to you? So, I have to say. And now your second remark. That a colleague of Jurjevic in his replica spoke of something that the previous speaker or club did not speak of at all. That's not true at first. You spoke on behalf of the club about how the SDP behaves, you insinuated something. And third thing, you're saying that I would have warned someone from HDZ if he'd done it. Well, look, my colleague Sumrak was talking about pâtés that Babic didn't say a word about, so I didn't take her word or interrupt her. So we've introduced practice in this House to move away from the subject. We are moving away from the topic, but look at the Croatian public, it will judge us accordingly. How serious we are or how unserious we are in the Parliament. A colleague of the Sumrak also reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will, in accordance with Article 238, get hurt by the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry that there is not one article that we can look back on your work and your humiliating attacks in general on the work of other MPs who are not in the SDP, but refers to us. And now I'm going to tell my colleague Jurjevic has been demeaning and insulting all of us on this side, and you support him because he's from your political party you support him. If by any chance that happened on this side, you'd already have 78 intruders I have to say rude here. And as for pâté, it refers to your public procurement and your poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52333	No injured Rules of Procedure No injured Rules of Procedure, Col. Jurjevic did not step down or exaggerate compared to what you said on behalf of the club everyone here. [[Twilight raider: Yes.]] A new breach of the Rules of Procedure is reported by counterpart Ilija Filipovic. Let's hear where the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52334	Thank you very much for giving me your word. I would only say that the Rules of Procedure was injured from the moment he began his replica, Mr. Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52335	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52336	Wait a minute. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure and you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52337	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52338	Because you allowed one controversy that wasn't prescribed by the Rules of Procedure at all. Mr. Jurjevic had a replica of all the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and the Club of Representatives in all the councils, not this convening and not the specific speaker from the HDZ Club. And you've allowed this kind of controversy, allowed this matter to be discussed, and that Mr. Jurjevic has until the end of this unprincipled controversy without a foothold in his office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52339	First of all, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, and you have not said at all which member you are referring to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52340	It's not defined by the Rules of Procedure that you've allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52341	No, no. You're out of time. Please sit down. You have to point out which member was injured, you didn't do it. So you don't even know how to make it right, even if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52342	Excuse me, please, you've violated the Rules of Procedure... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52343	Listen, there's no discussion with the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52344	Mr. Jurjevic and everyone else. So, read the Rules of Procedure carefully I can read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52345	My colleague Filipovic, no discussion. It's obvious you don't know because there's no discussion with the chairman. Look, you don't like the answer to the replica, and you like to throw and insult the SDP, so look, that's your problem. The HDZ Club received an answer to what was here on behalf of the HDZ Club. Reply to the replica of Marin Jurjevic and Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52346	Here's a thank you. Actually, I agree with my colleagues who spoke because I didn't insinuate anything in my debate. All my discussions were based on three reports, a report on the implementation of the National Prevention Mechanism, a report on the operation of penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions for 2011 and 2012. All that was brought out was derived from that material. So, there were no insinuations of me, and especially not something that applied to Mr. Jurjevic. I'm really appealing here, first of all to you who are running this session, and I want to stress that this topic is very important. It's about human rights, and that part of the topic I'm talking about is about human rights of people who are, in the right sense, talking about state care. So, the moment the state closes someone in the name of the law that this House has passed, it takes responsibility for their lives and for their treatment, for their family problems, and all that comes out of it. I think that this topic here is too important to be banalized like this and that this assembly speaker would be used for some kind of personal accounting or some kind of frustration. I ask you, and all other colleagues, to speak in that sense precisely because of the seriousness of the topic here on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52347	I fully agree with you and your appeal. Next replica, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52348	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you mentioned a number of figures. You spoke among other things about amounts sought by prisoners at the expense of compensation. We agree in these amounts and figures on behalf of the damages, and the first damages to be reached was in 2002 and it is 23 000 euros. It was a Benzon case against the Republic of Croatia. Now we're talking about 90 million kuna numbers. So now that these amounts were used to improve the conditions of accommodation facilities in prisons and all that the Ombudsman puts out through his report, then those figures would not be thrown into the wind because at the time when we talk about saving, such waste is happening, and instead of using it for useful purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52349	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52350	Thank you. Here's a colleague of mine, and for that pay phone, I pointed out that it was just the two of us almost up to the detail that agreed on the problem of the prison system. However, here I have preserved a newspaper article I want both the president and the Ombudsman to see it, it is an article in the Osijek List, relating to the situation in Osijek prison, but I did not save it just because there is this article, but it was published right at the time when the state budget for 2013, so all the representatives who were sitting here were particularly representatives of the ruling coalition who could see what the situation in the prison system was like and they could oppose that in the prison system that at the time of 539 million entered the minus 45 million kuna, and now 2012 ended with 58 million kuna. What is most important, and what you have warned Madam Advocates about in this report with the right, which is that the health status of the prisoners should be taken into account by the Ministry of Health and HZZO is also the figures all so 19 million in 2011, 16 million in 2012 by 3 million are reduced. Are the prisoners healthier? I doubt it, but I believe they're being denied some kind of fundamental human rights relating to their treatment, and that's what we should be counting on. You see for yourself through these possibilities you have, and we see that these possibilities are very modest to you. So what I want to appeal to here is if we give the attorney general some authority, then there has to be a mechanism for what he's looking for and for what he's doing. And what they're proposing in this report is to spend the cost, and the state isn't ready to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52351	And the last replica of his colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And now you're not going to believe something completely different. I'm going to stick to the subject because I appreciate the time of our esteemed attorney but also my own. So, my colleague Shantek, I'll start from the end of your exposure when you say this report is technically correct. I would say that your exposure is technically correct but because of the Croatian public and because of this House, I think we should mention a few things. I think we'll all agree that the situation in our penitentiary, prisons and other facilities where persons of deprived liberty are staying is far from magnificent. From just an example here from my hometown in Osijek where conditions are really scary that I will say a little later in my individual debate is actually an alarming especially person who must be immediately deprived of freedom for these or for those reasons, often sleeping on the floor, in the chapel, in the hallway, so the situation is really difficult even the retrieval of these prisons comes to 150 and some percent means an extremely difficult situation. But these aren't new problems, these aren't the problems that came up last year, they're not the problems that came up 10 years ago, they're the problems that unfortunately have been dragging on for a long time. And unfortunately, because of the situation we're in and the prison system is like any other system, they have to suffer as far as finances are concerned as you did. And our attorney would just like to thank you for your patience because it's very difficult to defend someone else's report. I therefore look forward to you to bear with us yours, which you will then defend with all rights and legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52353	The answer to the replica Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52354	Thank you. I do not think that the number of prisoners in the prison system will be reduced despite the introduction of some new mechanisms through the law but also as a system of probation. The sampling system, unfortunately, didn't come back to life. Why? For technical reasons, they cannot obtain the equipment and therefore cannot provide a certain number of prisoners who have the conditions for this type of service of punishment and cannot be in the probationary system. But there's something else I want to say here, and that's the possibility of a collegiate prison sentence. So it's a possibility when a person who's punished can't pay the fine but decides to go to prison. I can personally tell an example that one of my neighbors told me, he was punished for eight days' imprisonment, or for a fine that could have been replaced by an eight-day sentence. He went there and said from now on I will always do so. Why? I came in there and I took a bath and they cut my hair and they asked me if I was sick, they gave me medicine, and I didn't have to pay for anything. So let us consider this situation especially in the context of what my colleagues said about the poverty of society when society is poorer and when an increasing number of people will decide on such maintenance of punishment. And you get someone into the prison system what I said just before when the state starts taking care of him, then he has to have all those rights that come out of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52355	Thank you. Now we're going to continue the club debate, it's a new chance to get back on the agenda. On behalf of the SDP club, time will be shared by counterpart Melita Mulic and Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52356	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman, co-workers and colleagues. In order to raise the quality of this debate, the SDP club will stick to the facts in its presentation because it will seek to refrain from eating qualifications and insinuations and untruths. We have a 2012 report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office and we do not need to miss out at any time that it is not a report or a complete picture of the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. Since the powers of the Ombudsman are limited by law to make recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings, problems often remain unresolved after the intervention of the Ombudsman, so there have been judicial proceedings and the Republic of Croatia has unfortunately been high in recent years by the number of complaints at the European Court of Human Rights. This is often due to the inequitableness of the request and the ineffectiveness of the state bodies. The report clearly points to the need to improve the system of free legal assistance and the new law has already passed the first reading procedure in this House, so it is hoped that the new law will also lead to more effective protection of fundamental human rights. Although the number of complaints in the last year is within the multi-annual average, I believe that many citizens in their cases have felt the long-term length of procedures that lead to this and that when the complainant's request to the metrics is rejected, complaints are assessed just because of the length of the proceedings. Compared to the previous four years, however, it encourages the fact that the number of cases in the areas of pension insurance, reconstruction of houses, housing relations, denationalisation and other property relations has dropped while the trend of growth in other areas but above all in the judiciary, finance or health care. In particular, the report points out the lack of a timely response by individual competent authorities to the hearings of the Advocate General. Neither does the SDP Club amnesty anyone's responsibilities nor agrees with the practice of endless delay, but I think it is necessary to take into account some facts and thus the Ministry of Administration's data that, with the last month of last year, the number of employees of the government's body by 0.57% and that the state administration has actually been sub-capitated. The report also apostrophe of individual authorities of the state administration, which has been particularly highlighted and in past reports on the work of the Ombudsman. The Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, on the issue of residential care, reconstruction and recovery of temporarily occupied assets. By amending the law, the reshuffle of the state administration body is now this issue in the area of the newly established state office for reconstruction and housing. And it is expected to achieve greater efficiency. I will also remind myself of the report that states that all the European Commission's comprehensive report on the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in October 2012 states that the circumstances related to refugee returns have improved and that there is still a need to further improve the conditions for sustainable recovery and, in this context, I think, also made a contribution to the Croatian Parliament in view of the new legislation since the spring of this year. With regard to the exercise of the right to retire and to the implementation of the procedure of conqualification of decisions and individual acts in the area of pension insurance. From the example of intervention and the Ombudsman, we can support the request for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to agree more effective cooperation with pension and disability insurance holders because part of the complaints concerned precisely the application of international social insurance contracts because this is how we deal with the problems of those citizens who have spent part of their employment in the former republics of the former SFRY. A good part of the report also refers to complaints from persons deprived of liberty, conditions of accommodation, their health care, overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary facilities, staff insufficiency and treatment of persons deprived of liberty. In the SDP Club, we stress that deprivement of the right of persons to freedom must not lead to the threat of other fundamental, human rights. When it comes to the status rights of citizens, there are also a number of complaints about the regulation of residence or residence but I must stress that it refers to the procedures governed by the former Law on residence and residence and that the Croatian Parliament has passed a new law. And I also think that we can agree that progress has been markedly reduced... complaints concerning negative assessments by the competent authority of respect for the legal order and concerning the procedure of admission to Croatian citizenship or the status of foreigners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Out of the problem of working and official relations and during the time, the rights during unemployment came complaints about the suspension of the payment of cash compensation and before meeting the conditions for early or old retirement. But as the report itself states, this area has been resolved in accordance with the recommendations of the attorney general. And it is expected that the next year's report will have a slight number of complaints from this area. Since this stage has also been used to say things about official relations and the Law on civil servants, and when the political counterarguments have run out and we haven't stuck to the facts, I'm going to use it and, of course, by sticking to the reports, I'm going to say something else. The Law on civil servants is being amended by the Croatian Parliament. The current Law on civil servants is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with international protocols, and therefore colleagues and colleagues rest in parliamentary democracy. We talked about how and talked about how public tenders are being held and without legal protection being allowed after a public invitation to join the state service. So I'll give you a legal explanation. That provision of the Civil Service Act does not exclude the legal protection of persons registered in a public invitation to tender for admission to the State Service who have been notified not to be considered candidates to be registered in a public tender. Because these persons have the right to object to the Head of State in accordance with Article 156 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides that a person who considers that the other conduct of an equivalent body in the field of administrative authority which does not refer to a solution to the injured law, obligation or legal interest, shall have the right to declare an objection as long as such conduct persists or the consequences persist. The area of social protection... , when it comes to social care and reducing the risk of poverty it is evident that measures are necessary and the implementation of activities in order to be carried out in the long term and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] address the problem of poverty between older citizens and pensioners, especially singles, to ensure better protection for single parents and to activate unemployed social assistance users. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think anyone in the Croatian Parliament can be satisfied with the amount of social benefits but, of course, in the context of budget restrictions, we can't say that discrimination has been committed because discrimination would be if these social benefits were distributed on the basis of unfair criteria. It is also evident that inter-resorship cooperation in the protection of economic, social, status and other human rights should be strengthened, as well as work to amend the legislative framework in which we have done a lot for the past two years. It is an assessment by the occupier, as this is the latest report, as already stated on several occasions, by former Ombudsman Jurica Malcic, that by comparing the level of respect for human rights in the Republic of Croatia with the situation in other European countries, we can give a general assessment that we are in a group of countries that respect international standards for human rights protection. As there are still numerous challenges that make it difficult or difficult for many citizens to fully enjoy the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot say in the SDP club that we are fully satisfied with the image or state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, but because of the view that the Office of the Ombudsman has contributed to greater efficiency in the protection and promotion of human rights and that the situation is still much better than in recent years, the SDP Club will support this report. The subject of this debate is also the debate on the national preventive mechanism. I will remind you that in 2012, only this government has singled out the funds in general for the implementation of the national preventive mechanism and that it has not been in the process since 12 July 2012. The most important work of the national preventive mechanism is regular tours of the places where persons are deprived of liberty, in order to strengthen their protection against torture and other cruel non-human or humiliating proceedings or punishments, and to make recommendations to the authorities or institutions that are required within the time limit set by the Advocate General to take measures and to inform the Advocate General without delay. The report itself is also on several occasions apostrophe of co-operation with the Central Office of the Department of Prison System of the Ministry of Justice. A meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities was held yesterday. The Central Office has done everything requested, so inspection supervision has been made, and according to the Ombudsman's statement yesterday on the board, the shifts I think in Zagreb prison have taken place because the largest number of complaints have come from there. Although institutions were also in charge of the Ministry of the Interior and Social Policy and Youth during the visit, I will look particularly at the seats in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, so prisons and penitentiary facilities, as these are the biggest problems that have been observed. I would point out that both the national preventive mechanism’s findings and the European Court of Human Rights rulings against the Republic of Croatia did not determine in any case the most serious form of infringement of Article 3. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, i.e. there are no cases of torture and torture, but it is no doubt that in certain cases the treatment of persons deprived of liberty or their punishment may be characterised in certain elements as inhuman or humiliating. We are aware that overcrowding, one of the fundamental characteristics of the prison system, generates a large number of restrictions or violations of human rights of persons deprived of liberty, for example the right to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards, to health care, to work, to contact with the outside world and other rights. According to the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2012, and as confirmed by the statistics of the Council of Europe, the accumulation of the prison system on 31 December 2010, so 154% in the Republic of Croatia, at the end of 2011. 134% and at the end of last year 125%. A number of European Committee reports on the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments show that this leads to a lower standard of prison conditions, which can lead to serious human rights threats and significantly reduce the rehabilitation effect of prisons on perpetrators of criminal offences. Although there has been a trend in reducing overcrowding of the prison system in the last two years, as a result of the application of new criminal legislation and increasing the capacity of the prison system by 400 places and despite unequivocally positive shifts, it is necessary to bear in mind that, according to the standards of the European Committee on Crime Problems, it is necessary to keep in mind that, in the case of so-called ‘Criminal Problems’. the concentration calculation of the total number of prisoners at available places in prisons concentration above 120 places, which is what we are, considered critical of what has also been confirmed by the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to improve the conditions in penitentiary and prisons, to increase their capacity, to carry out systematic health inspection, or to improve the quality of healthcare, to comply with certain regulations and laws. The Republic of Croatia is taking a number of activities aimed at preventing torture, cruel treatment, inhuman or humiliating procedures, and part of these activities is also related to the spending of budget funds. Despite budget restrictions, however, there is room for raising standards for the protection of human rights of all guaranteed by the Constitution and international documents that we are signatories. The SDP Club will therefore support this report as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52357	The remaining time for discussion on behalf of the club will be used by Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this remaining time, I will look back on behalf of the SDP Club on the partial report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2012. I will not present the data statistically but in principle I would like to say that this is a methodological and content report that follows the previous four reports, i.e. this is the fourth report and from now on we will be able to monitor some trends in our society regarding the occurrences of discrimination. The report's very good. On behalf of the SDP club, I want to say that we not only take it into consideration but we respect it and we will analyse it in detail and we have. We accept the proposals made by the Ombudsman and, within the scope of legislative activities and other measures, we will seek to remove as many as possible occurrences as possible that are referred to here as problematic. In our constitutional order and in our country, the Ombudsman is conceived as some kind of consciousness of the state points to problems related to the protection of human rights of citizens and to the emergence of discrimination in society. During 2012, the Ombudsman's Office opened up 202 cases on discrimination. One hundred and seventy-seven were dealt with. There are 65 more in progress. It should only be pointed out that, as in previous years, it is particularly endangered, in particular, to discriminate against our citizens in relation to race or ethnicity, skin color, and national origin, and in particular to complaints about working conditions when it comes to areas of discrimination, to justice, to the relationship between justice and administrative bodies. Unfortunately, this report also indicates that citizens are under-informed for the rights they have, i.e. which gives them this Law on the prevention of discrimination. There's still a lot to work on. But I would like to say first of all that we are a picture of this society and that in the Croatian Parliament we condemn the occurrences of discrimination and we are not aware of how many times something can be called and what this report that is before us, which we are discussing, has called hate speech. So I can’t help but notice that such speeches are the most applied to fellow MPs and that, for example, just before one of the colleagues was called out to work and discriminated on the basis of marital status, or on the basis of what a husband or another family member did. Let's take a look and start a little bit. And here it might not be bad, I can't say it on behalf of the SDP club, but I will personally use it to say that maybe the Ombudsman would be good to give us a picture of our debates and the one itself, to make a brief report as to how discriminatory or not in the Croatian Parliament is spoken here in front of citizens. Finally, I would like to say that it is commendable to open offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split which will in itself open up, bring the citizens closer, the area office will bring the citizens of the Ombudsman closer and know better about their rights. I would also like to point out in particular that the role of the media may be the only thing that is not sufficiently highlighted in this report, the role of the media that should be more aware and responsible, in their scandalous performances and scandalous headlines, may, in their own opinion, sometimes discriminate consciously or unconsciously not only of a person but also of a minority group, and that sensationalist approach harms the public perception of a minority if it is written about a minority member who committed this or that. So the media should be responsible and have a responsible role in society in this regard as well as in the education system, and so should civil education that should teach our youngest citizens from a young age except in the family that simply some phenomena in society are not acceptable, i.e. that they are legally prohibited. Finally, as regards this 2012 Report on the occurrences of discrimination, the SDP Club will certainly support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52359	Thank you. We have reported several replicas to that part of the exhibition, which was presented by Col. Mulic. First Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mulic, I would not go into the semi-limisation of your debate. You have, in the end, technically commented on this report. However, you, as well as the Ombudsman, have touched one area that is very important and that is in areas of special state concern especially to say it gives us some kind of scale whether or not certain rights are respected. And so it's about housing, and then you said that setting up a state housing office is going to make something better. You know what? I may be a little sick on your numbers, and that's why I always like to look at some numerical indicators. So when you look at the report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months and you will see that only 5% has been carried out in that office, then I am very interested in what Ms. Vidovic, the state's attorney, will say about this area next year. 'Cause look, it's crazy to spend all the money at the end of the year, and it's crazy, and it's just crazy for people who expect something to be done, it's never gonna help them, it's never gonna do them any good. And is that office even teamed up to spend this money all the way? Look at the pay position, you've only spent 13%. So he's not even teamed up to spend this money. And I'm going to repeat what I said this morning in the replica on this same subject to Madam General's Attorney General, in the area of special state care, there are several thousand housing units that have invested a great deal of money from the state budget, which unfortunately stares blank for this reason or that reason. In this House, too, we may be dealing with some issues, not solving the life problems of poor people. Because they're not, they're prisoners of certain policies. But we're going through some things easily. So, we said and I'll end up with that setting up an office is going to work. If someone spends 5% of their money in six months and spends only 13% of it on wages, it's clear that it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52361	The replica matches my colleague, Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52362	I thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you were talking about the sub-catacity of the Central State Office for Housing Care and Reconstruction. My colleague Shantek was talking about the Justice Department. The fact remains, and I think we can all agree on the fact that the state administration is actually subscribed. In terms of spending, I would, however, refer to some documents, so not only the six-year report on the implementation of the budget, but also to the strategic, or programme document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where housing is expected to be resolved by the end of 2013. I would, however, wait for the report in the following year, so on the complete spending of funds and the next Report by the Ombudsman so that we can see what has actually been done and also in the context of the new regulation adopted by the Government in the spring of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52363	The next line is a colleague of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52364	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, my replica to my colleague Mulic. You said about taking civil servants was a debate, etc., and when the arguments run out, then he resorts to political disqualifications. You know what this is about in the previous debate. Now I want to give you a few arguments, if they weren't in the previous debate. I mean, when HDZ comes to power, he sets up human resources, let's call a network that can get through a fat pig, a fat pig. And then the party comes to power, i.e. You, and then set up a mosquito net, against mosquitoes can't even mosquito into the room. That's a fact. The argument can't go without you or your great-grandfather being at that party's founding congress in Vukovar. So he comes to the power of Tudjman and takes old Milanovic as assistant minister. And then he comes to the government of Sanader and takes little Milanovic to the foreign ministry. And then he comes to the authorities of Kolinda, Jandrokovic and Plenkovic and they take you to the Foreign Ministry as an SDP charger. Whether this set will now be taken and with hundreds and thousands of HDZ activists who speak three languages, both men and women and could not come to those places. And whose children are they going to hire for example? We see! No one who wasn't there can pass. I told you not to repeat myself. And that's a fact, that's the truth. This is about the Croatian public. And you and the chairman and we here know it well, and the Croatian public doesn't know it well. I felt it was necessary to explain and give you arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52365	Here I am being warned from your club that I am counter-businessing replicas that have nothing to do with the subject. I see they were right. Replication response, Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Marasovic, said he had given me arguments, so given that I know more than you do about the system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because you called on a colleague of Plenkovic and the current Prime Minister of Milanovic, I know something more than you do, so I will tell you that they all came at the same time and that Zoran Milanovic was never an assistant appointed by Ivo Sanader but was an assistant at the time the ministry led by Tonino Picula. Since this law will give you a second argument and a network of mosquitoes, so by this majority and this government has proposed a new Law on civil servants when political responsibility ceases, and no mosquito will be able to come to a colleague of Marasovic, if you get full political legitimacy. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52367	Next replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And colleagues Mulić you spoke of the rights of those who report to the competition in the state services. But we didn't talk about it, we talked about it, I have to supplement you, we talked about those you called without a competition. We were talking about the fact that with 80 government officials you found the number that the previous HDZ government had promised in the campaign that you would reduce the number of state officials, and then you increased them to 143. That's what we were talking about. And the fact that you're hiring your politically-like staff without a competition. And then I ask you in this context what do you think about the fact that today they scream media and mention Vrdoljak and his godfather, Sheric, who employs six new directors in HEP, who hire each member of the management of a single assistant with a manager's contract and the chairman of the administration of two assistants with a management contract? What do you think of the fact that 131 new workers in HEP were employed, and at the same time they were fired by installers, engineers, etc., but 131 is similar employees. What do you think of the fact that among 18 new directors, most of them are either presidents of the HNS City Organisations or presidents of the HNS County Organisations? You want me to tell you about names? In Karlovac names, names in Požega, names in Sibenik etc. HNS personnel. I know that this coalition has seen public enterprises as a prey of choice, as your own prey, and you have divided public enterprises according to party preferences, so the HNS is ruling HEP, SDP to other public institutions. But you've abolished something that was good, which is that people's supervisory boards were based on, or chosen by, a public tender. At least they met the criteria of the profession and at least knew the areas they dealt with as members of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52369	Thank you. The replica matches my colleague, Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matušić, I do not deal with who he is and how and when he is employed in HEP because certain accounts will be submitted. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where we also pay Croatian citizens bills today that you have made with long-term management of HEP and other public enterprises. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52371	Give your colleague Matusic some parliamentary behaviour. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52372	Thank you very much. So I, like my colleague Jurjevic, will have a replica so let him answer me who will because both colleagues said that we belong in a circle of countries that respect human rights. That's not at all controversial, that's one claim that has never been disputed especially in this legal forest, as one judge says, it's hard to even find the right we don't have. I think we have every right. But what's the problem? The problem is when those rights need to be realized, that's the problem. And that should be done by the attorney general, so we choose him to make sure that the right is done. Because let's say we have the right to health care probably have other societies, but what's going on here is the last two years in that system. Never bigger waiting lists, so you have the right to an ultrasound but you wait one 7 months for a simple ultrasound check or God forbid a specialist review then it goes up for a year. And if you happen to have malignancies, then you no longer have any rights in this health system, but you fall on the burden of the family and all those who have to go that difficult way with you unfortunately. And you have all the rights, it's not at all controversial, you have all the rights. You can come anywhere you want but keep coming back and waiting. Here we have a strike that's already been going on for almost a month, and the lists are getting bigger and bigger. No one questioned the law. Where is the attorney general in this regard? He'll list who's been complaining nicely and he'll warn us and that's how it's solved. It's not the right way. And as for these competitions, you have no right to answer if you don't have a party book. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52373	Thank you very much. You know exactly who will respond to your replica will be Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52374	My colleague Boric's waiting lists are a problem for Croatian health care, and none of us on this side or that health minister slowed down, and I think it was a few months ago that he thought he would solve the problem more quickly and efficiently. I will also point out that there are other problems in Croatian health, which is why we have the current deficit of the state budget because this government has also decided to resuscitate debts in health care. Since you were also talking about the right to protect patients if you find this area inadequately regulated, you as an agent as well as I have the right to submit a legal initiative without only objecting but to do something concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52375	And the last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52376	Thank you. Here's what I have to say is that I'm satisfied because sometimes the prison system hasn't been talked about as much as it is today at this debate and I think we should speak rightly because this system is very important to the Republic of Croatia, but I kind of feel like all the ministers have somehow been passing that system by relying on the managers who are superhuman today working to work. But I wanted to look back on that part of my colleague Mulic who said the problem is overcrowding that capacity needs to be increased. I have to say that the problem with prison transfer and some closed-type penitentiary, however, is not in all open-type penitentiary areas even having problems with such a category of prisoners that can be in them, therefore in open-ended conditions. However, I have to ask my colleagues a simple question, how does the SDP intend to increase capacity if it reduces the budget by 100 million and if it postpones the construction of the Sibenik Penitentiary for 2014, '15, '16, '17, '18? I have to say that the Glen Penitentiary started to build in '96 and ended in 2011. And this capacity reduction is exactly the number that increased the capacity of the Penitentiary in Clay. So you have also in this report this diagram from which you can clearly see it. So building a penitentiary takes a long time, but if we don't start building it now, the question is when it'll be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52377	The replica matches my colleague, Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52378	My colleague Shantek and I know the state of the budget. There is a fact and the fact is that the Constitutional Court made a decision in 2009 that given certain European Court of Human Rights rulings, accommodation capacity must be increased and we are given a five-year period to do so. I'd rather wait for the 2014 draft budget then, so let's see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52379	We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, so on behalf of the HNS club, the respected representative Boris Blažekovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Laura Vidovic, co-workers and colleagues, and especially citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Surely one of the most important reports to be submitted to the public through this House of Commons is the annual report on the work of the Ombudsman. This, according to us, is the second most important report in the HNS, because it directly concerns the fundamental reason for the existence of the state, the security of human rights and the civil freedoms of all inhabitants. The Ombudsman also reports on the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. The annual report by the Advocate General, along with the report of the other attorneys, is simply a picture of the nation's health during last year's period. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament to promote the protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. It's certainly one of the most noble jobs at all, but it's also one of the most responsible jobs at all. The law states that the Ombudsman promotes and protects human rights and freedoms and the rule of law by considering complaints about the existence of illegality, irregularities in the work of state bodies, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, legal persons with public authorities and legal and natural persons in accordance with specific laws. It further states that the Ombudsman has the right to obtain all information and that he has the right to understand all the information, the documents of the body referred to in Article 4 of this Act in the performance of the tasks of his or her work, regardless of the degree of their secrecy or protection. We find it alarming and inadmissible that the Ombudsman is waiting for some answers, on his official enquiries for over a year, although the legal period of a maximum of 30 days in a number of cases was necessary to direct one to five branches and several dozen cases of the Ombudsman's staff had not received an answer at all. It seems incredible but true. In the HNS, we find it simply absurd to deafen the ombudsman’s enquiries or not to answer on an up-to-date basis to some of the ministries of the other institution and local self-government. For us, this is an incredible ignoring and unconscious pomitience compared to those caused by these same ministries, institutions exist and these are Croatian citizens and citizens. We repeat, the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament. An institution which all of us who deal with politics at any level, in any capacity we must meet, simply provide a quick and effective introduction and the answer to any request is the institution of the attorney general. In his final statement, he is simply the conscience of the society. Statistical data suggest that in 2012, a slight decline in written complaints was 1849 compared to 2011 when it was 1900 but was at the level of a multi-annual average. A total of the items from previous years were worked on 2248 cases, of which 71 4% were solved and 28.6 were unsolved. The problem of resolving procedures is related to the duration of the resolution of procedures by the competent authorities. The total number of 1849 applications in 2012 seems to be a relatively small number, which is about 0.4.0.40% relative to the number of inhabitants, and it is the impression that the human rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are well protected by the state, which is unfortunately still not so. It seems to us in the HNS that there is clearly insufficient information between citizens and citizens on their real rights and on the existence and description of the work of the Ombudsman. We think it is necessary to significantly improve information and information for citizens on the activities of the Ombudsman. This should be done systematically at all levels using all possible means and knowledge and people, we think that to warn citizens how and how and how they can and should protect their rights should not be unreasonable restrictions. It's just no limit. We recommend that experience develop a strong campaign that could be realized in the coming years. This calls on all media to immediately engage in enhanced information on their rights, particularly from the domains of protection of human rights and civil liberties and thus the work of the attorney general. The law states in Article 7 that a public defender in his work is independent and independent. Every form of influence on the work of the attorney general is prohibited. In the exercise of its powers, the Ombudsman shall act in accordance with the Constitution and the legal provisions and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In its work, the Ombudsman manages the principle of justice, morals, and acts impartially and in accordance with the standards of good governance, doing business in his work, the Ombudsman cooperates with the public, and in particular with associations that promote the interests of citizens, the academic community and the media. In the course of his work in the area, the Ombudsman may request the assistance of scientists, experts and institutions. It's very... Table of comparative representation of complaints on topics, legal areas for the period 2009 to 2012. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data from those areas can simply be read from this table, i.e. the subject of how applications or complaints have been raised or dropped. Any person who considers that they are illegal or irregular in the work of the body referred to in Article 4. The law, threatened or violated by its constitutional or legal rights and freedoms, may appeal to the Advocate General for the initiation of the proceedings. For the purposes of examining individual or frequent similar violations of constitutional or legal rights and freedom to initiate proceedings on its own initiative, the Advocate General may, for the purpose of examining individual or frequent same infringements of constitutional or legal rights and freedom. If the Advocate General intends to initiate proceedings on his own initiative or on a proposal from a person whose rights are not injured for the conduct of the proceedings, it is necessary to obtain consent from a person to whom constitutional or legal rights and freedoms are directly threatened or injured unless it is a protection, the child's well-being, if the case has been found out through the media or if it is an emergency. No one shall be put in a more unfavourable position or called to account for his address to the vacancy attorney. In principle, the Advocate General shall make recommendations, opinions and warnings to the public authorities and to all other bodies that enable or really endanger one's human rights and civil freedoms. Therefore, public support and recognition of the activities of the Ombudsman is even more important. In the HNS, we believe that this role of the media is dried up and that no responsible media can be deafened to the work, remarks, recommendations and problems of the public defender. The Croatian Parliament and the media must be the closest allies of the occupier. We at the HNS and I personally believe that today, on the central television diaries of all televisions, there should be a female attorney general. In this 2012 report, the Ombudsman gave a number of recommendations for various areas. We in HNS think it is important to read here, warn of 9 recommendations in the field of social care, family legal protection and custody, maternity and parental support. It is recommended that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth conduct an analysis of the work of the department responsible for inspection and administrative supervision and take measures that would lead to greater efficiency, in particular in the conduct of labour surveillance and general acts, units of local self-government in the field of social care. It is also recommended to ensure human and other conditions that would allow the resolution of complaints within the legal period. It is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopt a social housing strategy and social housing law that would develop a social housing system and allow equal access to rights, i.e. to mitigate regional inequalities. It is recommended to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to strengthen the work of shelters or shelters for the homeless in large cities due to the quality of temporary admission of the homeless and to ensure the preconditions for their faster social inclusion in the local community in which they live. It is recommended to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to create preconditions for the introduction of a new state support institute for old people without pension, i.e. Social pension. It is recommended that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth speed up deinstitutionalisation especially of persons with mental impairment from previous insurance, quality networks of services and support in the local community who... have ensured equal life in the community. It is recommended that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, when drawing up a final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, build on the possibility of parents to declare a complaint against the solution of the HZZO and delay the effect of the complaint, as prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is recommended to introduce a multidisciplinary approach in the process of skills in order to achieve leave, i.e. to work with half full-time because of child care with severe developmental disturbances or to give this skill to the competent authority of the social care system until a single body of art for all systems is established. It is recommended to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to implement, without delay, the reform of the custody institute in accordance with the recommendations given and to relieve centres for social care, the transfer of their powers from custody to courts. It is recommended that amendments to the Family Law and provisions on the costs of art in the extra-parquent procedure, deprivement or return of business capacity and in such a way as to charge the resources of the court rather than the funds of the social care centres. These are recommendations that have seemed important to us. Today, we are discussing three important reports, the work of the Ombudsman of the regiment of discrimination and the conduct of the affairs of the national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. Reports for this year show that the Office of the new Ombudsman is successfully stalking and that it is seriously moving towards important inspections in prisons and other institutions. The lawyer at the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and also here, pointed out that cruel treatment and torture are at the level of excess which is good, but they should be completely removed. And let me take a moment to point out one shameful fact, and it concerns all of us. It is a matter of sanitary, accommodation, health and rehabilitation conditions in most psychiatric hospitals in Croatia. They're simply inadmissible. I would like to warn you specifically about the situation in the geriatric ward of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapč. That department where unfortunately they go before the end of their lives some of our moms and dads and some of our grandparents seem absolutely inadmissible. It's embarrassing. It is usually the place that should look best and should be best equipped with the medical equipment of the newest generations and should simply be a clean, warm and pleasant place. There is no such good doctor or doctor, nor is there a good enough nurse or nurse who can compensate for the terrible conditions in which some of our helpless fellow citizens live before their last days. Our carelessness is simply the inadmissible cruelty of all of us against our parents, grandparents. I appeal to the minister of social care, to the health minister to do everything to make this terrible situation at the geriatric ward of the psychiatric hospital in Vrapac and in other hospitals of that kind change. These three reports by the Croatian Ombudsman have been extensively and thoroughly processed and should certainly be supported, as we in the HNS are going to do. It should be noted that this report, the last report by the staff's attorney, Jurica Malcic, who, after eight years, ceased to be. In view of the circumstances in which Mr. Malcic worked, we must certainly give credit to his work. It must have been one of the pillars of the successful conclusion of negotiations with the European Union, particularly in Chapter 36 and really and actively participated in Croatia's transition to a polite European country. But looking into real life... life in the eyes without being fooled by anyone but themselves, it should finally be said that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia at decades of age were all but free and that human rights, right to the truth, right to work, right to freedom of choice, right to legal protection, right to equality before courts, right to information, right to education, right to freedom of movement, right to health, right to social security, right to personal privacy, right to equality in employment and many other human rights and civil freedoms. Long-term bans and respect for human rights by... states change both nature and spirit and the customs of the entire nation. We all need to make additional efforts to ensure that, in the next period, the countries carry out their functions to their institutions and especially in the fields of protection of human rights. The state has to be fair, fair and cheap. Every person is born with guaranteed human rights, the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness, and no one can and has the right to take away anyone, and the right to protect them is the state. After enrolling us in our home books, we become political beings, citizens and citizens, and when we are 18, we become full citizens and citizens. As citizens and citizens, we transfer some of our rights and freedoms to the state. Our freedoms are boundless until we enter the space of other people's freedoms. Without freedom, no other human value can be realized, every human being needs freedom to develop his talents and to achieve himself completely. Without freedom, the human spirit lands, culture and science are falling apart, the economy is not progressing. Our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. Every human being is a unique phenomenon. Individual or individual with their own personal, unique ideas, desires and needs. At the same time he or she is a social being, depending on the other individuals and individuals and with certain obligations against them. The rights and freedoms of individuals, i.e. individuals, must not compromise the rights of another individual or individual. Freedom and accountability are indivisible, together they determine the relationship between individuals and communities. ...the rights are necessary if an individual or individual wants to freely dispose of his personal life. Because of this freedom of opinion and expression is not only a strong moral requirement for tolerance and rule of law, it is also the way towards the development of the human mind, a path based on competition with free ideas and competition with knowledge. The right to private property also falls under human rights. Without recognition of the right of ownership, many other rights cannot be exercised. Modern policy promotes equality in the initial positions of each individual, promotes competition and pluralism. This seeks free access to all markets for every market for knowledge, information, work, goods, services, financial markets. We Liberals also believe that it is necessary to release individuals or individuals from the coercion of the state and unnamed institutions so that an individual or individual may or may fully exercise his or her responsibilities in freedom. The individual's freedom is conditioned and responsible for the community. The modern state encourages an increase in the freedom of citizens, i.e. citizens in all areas of life, and aims to reduce the role to necessity. It means the ability of a citizen to organize themselves. And now allow a brief quote. Thomas Spein of the "In the Defence of the Rights of Man" essay, which lived from 1737 to 1809 and was a participant of both the American and French revolutions. And he says, "Society is the product of our needs, and the power of our wickedness. Society promotes our happiness by uniting our feelings, and the government does it negatively by keeping under control of our faults. Society promotes relationships, power creates differences. Society protects, power punishes. Under any conditions, freedom is a blessing." The government is in the best form of the necessary evil, and at worst it is unbearable. That is why modern democratic states, along with various other modernised institutions in terms of the protection of human rights, establish a very important institution of the ombudsman's attorney general. I get into all of us in the Parliament and this government that we will all uncompromisingly tackle just all the challenges of establishing the highest standards of human rights and civil liberties for our citizens and citizens. I'm sure no amendments to our laws and regulations will be radical enough if it's guided by these highest standards. I believe our ambitions must be enormous and without limits. Anything known in terms of the highest attainment of human freedoms and civil rights must at least be our goal, and on many occasions only a starting point. Because for our citizens we have the right and the duty to search and realize absolutely and only the best. As I have already mentioned, the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats will support these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52381	Thank you very much. We've got two lines reported. First respected colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52382	Thank you. Coli Blažeković, you have well-numbered all responsibilities of the Ombudsman, i.e. the attorney's office, and you have mentioned among other things that it should protect and defend citizens' right to information. So I believe that you will also be interested in why the right of citizens cannot take advantage of it, i.e. I cannot get an opinion and opinion from the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, Mr. Radman, as regards the cancellation of Ms. Marina Pavicic. I don't know, ma'am. That's what I said on the board yesterday. However, yesterday we had the opportunity to see that on the board Mr. Radman was asked by representatives of the Croatian Journalist Society why he resigned to Mrs. Marini Pavicic. I believe that this question should be answered by the Ombudsman if he does not already give the Croatian Assembly what he is obliged to do. At least have the D.A. address that question. We could see from the media that the lady was fired just because she was willing to testify in one case to the tragic death of one HRT employee. I ask you, if that's why she got fired, because she was willing to testify and tell the truth about the case, and she was partly telling the truth that there was also a mobbing in that institution by those close to the administration. I ask you, Madam Advocate, that we get a clear answer not only in the Croatian Parliament, that when they get answers clearly from Croatian broadcasters. Yesterday we heard they were out there like a concentration camp. Let's get a clear answer to why. And I hope you can answer why HNS acts like this in HEP. They've raised the price of electricity needlessly, they're lowering it today. Why are you hiring like this in this way your personnel, similar personnel for directors at HEP? Of the 18 new directors, most of them are The President of the City or County Committee of the CNS. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] Maybe you have an answer for why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52383	Thank you very much. A classic example of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, a replica of something that Blažekovic did not speak at all. But it's on your soul. Second replica, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52384	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Blažekovic, in the report of the Advocate General, says that employment in the cabinets is the minister and the highest duty that this is based on Article 44. The constitution is against the constitution, so I'm going to ask you some questions, and let the lawyer hear them. So, you're a longtime HNS activist, one of the leading people of recent years, so I ask you to answer my question whether, at the time of HDZ's government in public tenders, the highest ministry officials were receiving mass income from HNS members due to their ability or not to receive HNS members on the basis of public tenders because of their incompetence. And whether in HEP at the time he was a fictitious employee of the Croatian People's Party secretariat. If it is then I ask you to speak very plainly and plainly. I personally believe that it is not about the ability of the CNS or the incompetence, but that it is about the political likeness of HDZ members at the time and the fictional competitions that were called, but that only party people were received, and thus the competition was played, and of course the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia would also want the public defender to do so. So, I'm interested in my colleague Blažekovic whether the fictitious tenders that were held during HDZ, and it seems to me that so is also a violation of the principle, Article 44. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52385	Time. First we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 was injured because a colleague, Rados, accuses HDZ of having fictitious competitions. Nowhere has any court instance proved that during the previous HDZ term there have been fictitious competitions. But what is clear today is that the HNS employs exclusively and appoints its similar members to the presidents of city and municipal organisations and county organisations in HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52387	Article 238 has not been injured. You just don't like what you heard, so you abuse the Rules of Procedure. It's on your soul again. Replication response, dear Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, fellow Radosh. The answer to your question clearly is no, that at that time indeed no one from the CNS secretariat was employed in the management of HEP. But this whole employment topic... May I? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't say a word while you were talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52389	You will respond to the replica, or you will communicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52390	If you don't protect me because my colleague's throwing me away, I'm gonna have to protect myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52391	Let your colleague go, it's impossible to stop him from throwing away. Only you answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52392	I'd just like to say that it seems to me that these employment or non-employment stories simply put me in a position to think that I lived in another era because all of the citizens of the Republic, but absolutely everyone, knows how the state has been employed and how it has been run over the past 20 years. And it really makes no sense to talk about it. This topic of human rights is much too important for those for whom we are here, and these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so that they are now fighting who they hired, and we know exactly how HDZ hired their people and how they worked or maybe they were employed, and they didn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52393	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure reported. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52394	Mr Vice-President, I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 1 says that I quote: "A representative must not speak about a subject that is not subject to discussion during the debate." And now he says why... The article I'm reporting by, and now I'm explaining why I'm answering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you have already warned your colleague Fran Matusic of the HDZ Club that he was talking about something that was not spoken by his colleague Blažekovic, then if you want to run the session evenly, then you should have done the same thing to your colleagues because he was speaking about the subject of which Mr Blažekovic did not speak at all. So on that basis, I believe that you have violated Article 238(1), and otherwise I think it would be good to be principled because we will avoid many debates that unfortunately do not lead us anywhere. So I ask you nicely, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, to behave equally within three minutes of how long there was a gap between the reminder of my colleague Matusic and the speech of my colleague Radosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52395	Thank you. It is up to the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS, but your colleagues please be patient we have reported another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Jozo Radosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52396	So, Mr. Vice President, there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure that speaks of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52397	Which one? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52398	Article 240 and some, it doesn't matter. So that's the formal figure of the one that's talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. So, HDZ deputies lately when they're not responding to a replica, they're raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but what I'm saying is
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52399	My colleague, Radosh, we cannot use the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to continue the controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52400	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52401	Okay. We can't use our fellow Rados to continue the debate in the benches. Therefore, it will be much simpler for all of us to stop now and give Mrs. Kosor a word to state the position of her club. What? You insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here, fellow Shuker insists that we often hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52402	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to ask you to really treat all MPs equally. So it's an eclectic example of your violation of the Rules of Procedure for the second time in a few minutes is the violation of Rules of Procedure under Article 236. So, a colleague of Rados, at the time he said that he had broken his rules of procedure, had to indicate which article was injured. If he didn't do it, you were obliged to interrupt him. You didn't do it, and that's why you hurt Article 236. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52403	But I don't know where you've been? So I broke up with my colleague, Radosh. I don't know where you've been, in this assembly? If you think that I am wrong, please contact the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and if you do not, then I will consider that you have now abused the Rules of Procedure, that you do not mean that at all. What are you looking for now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52404	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 15 minutes for the reason you manipulate leadership. You can't just say this. Because if you know the Rules of Procedure, if I have not announced the written submission of requests to interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you do not have the right to comment on this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52405	I have to guide you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52406	You cannot privatize this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52407	No, no, I've instructed you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52408	Don't do this for the Croatian public and for these parliamentary representatives. You're privatizing the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52409	I'm not privatizing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52410	I would have said that, as I said several times. I'm also used to telling you that I have no intention of putting up with it, and you have no right to say that I think I abused the Rules of Procedure because it's simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52411	You abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52412	No, sir. You have to say if I'm invited to Article 236 you have to say what I did wrong here. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52413	You are referring to the Rules of Procedure to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52414	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52415	Okay, now we're gonna interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52416	My colleague, Stazić
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52417	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52418	That's right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52419	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52420	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry that there is no Vice President Stazic because the break is wanted because of his way of holding the session and I'm sorry to say all this I'm going to say to you because you are extremely correct in conducting the session. I believe that fellow Stazic, the vice president of this House of High, must not allow himself, according to that people's, that HDZ is a bag that anyone can hit on and on as they please. So in less than 180 seconds or three minutes we have had the opportunity to see the double archaic application of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which should be and therefore we have brought it an act that applies to everything equally. So first, counterpart Matušić warned that he was replicating and talking about a subject that his colleague Blažekovic did not speak on behalf of the HNS club, after which a colleague, Rados, and a completely identical old man, in a different way than what his colleague Matušić said and said. And I can understand that in a certain way, my colleague Radoš has used some of his right, however, to tell us that at certain times we are perhaps interpreting the Rules of Procedure of this High House as it pleases us, but the thing is that the President tells us that it is not so and that the Rules of Procedure is worth everything equally. And I repeat, HDZ is no one's punching bag, nor will it be. Anyone can come to a political game, they can conflict their opinion with HDZ deputies, but when you look at the Rules of Procedure, so we as MPs can't polemize and we can't replicate with the chairman of this session, and we're as agents in an unfavourable position. While at the same time the chairman, and above all I think of my colleague Stazic, is always taking advantage of the opportunity to comment on statements and perform first and foremost on HDZ representatives. Therefore, since he did not accept and did not even try to respond to the remarks on behalf of the HDZ Club and as soon as he did not respond, he accepted that he had wronged the Rules of Procedure, however, his last intervention where he told the club's promoter was actually on behalf of the club when a breach of the Rules of Procedure was sought, if you are not looking for an official interpretation from the Board, that means that you have admitted that you have wronged the Rules of Procedure. He didn't explain one word to me as soon as I broke the Rules of Procedure, but when you have no argument you admit that you didn't do something in that system, I'll charge you, and then I'll judge her through the board, and you prove you're not innocent. So this Rules of Procedure have been adopted in certain provisions, with great opposition from all MPs of the opposition in this House because we are aware that we are being granted certain representation rights and, with such an unfavorably adopted Rules of Procedure, continue to be experienced. I repeat, HDZ will not be anyone's firing bag in this High House or any other colleagues from the opposition clubs when they say something that doesn't fit the ruling ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52421	On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52422	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We had an institution to correct the incorrect allegations and infringements of the Rules of Procedure which were most often misused, it was not about the subject but about the political position, and then we restricted the correction of the incorrect quote and we turned it into a replica that in my opinion did not contribute to the quality of the work of the Croatian Parliament, but now, in recent times, a new deformation appears at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, and that is that when someone is dissatisfied with the replica that happened between the MPs, they are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And most often it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because in our replicas it's replicated very broadly. So this morning, the HNS was the subject of experience because both when spoken and when no colleagues' presentations talked about employment in public services, and this is the content of the report by the Ombudsman, then the HNS was talked about. Then it should be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what my colleague Djurovic said as I listened to from the HDSSB, counterpart Matušić, co-worker Sumrak, and when I had problems in the replica, calling for a report from a police lawyer, then it should be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We must then very precisely define what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure and whether it can be spoken in the replica as it pleases. If we adopted this in my opinion bad practice that in the replica, we can say whatever we want, then it should not be allowed to do anything about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because then this liberal replica that has no limits turns into anything else. And when I did what HDZ agents and other members did all morning, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Those questions must be defined. So HDZ isn't the subject of experience and it shouldn't be, but HNS can be. What kind of practice is that, and what are those rules? In this House, we must all be equal. I don't get into the way the President's desk behaves, but if you can talk about attacking the HNS based on the speech of MPs who have nothing to do with HNS or the topic of employment in the public services that we talked about in that unfortunate change of replicas, then I have that right too. It is my job to protect and protect the rules of work of this Parliament as a representative, but of course I also protect the interests of the CNS that I represent here in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, everything that is allowed for you should be allowed for me and vice versa, and whether it is a good practice with these strong replicas that have nothing to do with what has been exposed, and in particular the new practice that dissatisfaction with replicas is used in the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, that is another thing. And another, when I talk about respecting the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, including, of course, the Presidential Table here in Article 236, it reads: "If a representative announces a breach of the Rules of Procedure and did not report it to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system loses the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure at that session.". And the names of MPs who do not have the right of the chairman shall inform the representatives at the meeting of the Assembly. That hasn't happened in this assembly yet. So about the injury,... But well, that may have been an extraordinary case. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The breach of the Rules of Procedure is completely free, not restricted, you can say whatever you want. And when a representative in this case, I, as a representative of the HNS Club, act equally or much milder than the MPs have acted all morning, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, in these matters, we need to introduce some order. So in this Assembly, the conduct, respect for the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the relationship of the President's desk to all MPs and ruling parties and oppositions is equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52423	Here are your colleagues, Jadranka Kosor. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Kosor and HGS. A fellow Shuker, a colleague of Shuker Here you go. [[I'm sorry, Madam Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52424	Thank you. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleague colleague, I think, Madam Vice President, if there is any further need to explain, I will wait because here I am waiting for quite another. Madam Attorney, since this report that speaks of the year in which the Ombudsman was Mr. Jurica Malcic and that he had been doing his job for many years, I would also say pioneering and trying and setting up and raising some standards. And the fact is that even then and always in some way at different levels is what Mr. Malcic wrote in his reports, which he says, what he warned was not always at the will of past governments or ministers as we see in this government in referencing this report. I think that, and it should be a good practice to thank Mr. Jurica Malcic for his work, it wasn't an easy job, it's not an easy job, and that it's a time to wish the general attorney for success in all the years ahead of her, of course, and her team, we should learn to thank people who do a job for what they did. Because anyone who does that kind of responsible work does something good and leaves someone behind. And for criticism, of course, we're always ready. As regards, of course, the work of the Office and the Public Advocate, i.e. the Advocate General and other Advocates, of course, is the basic document of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but certainly the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, a convention which I often remind of about the rights of persons with disabilities is the largest human rights document in this century but certainly many other laws. And I mention that because we can always conclude, and we often do that, when we speak in the broadest sense of protecting human rights, and that's what good is about, sometimes we can really say great, that we have achieved in some, through some laws, through some norms almost out of standard, but the real picture of how these laws are done and how the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia can sometimes be qualified as sad. We are often prone to appropriate words, appropriate sentences, appropriate celebrations, but in the work of many of them, especially in a political space that is prone to sneezing when they speak of human rights, many are very weak in action. I would very practically like to point out here that in this report it is very clear at the very beginning that the Ministry of Deafness or that are very unsavoury in responding to the instructions of the Advocate General or of the Office. That's how it's been over the past few years. And I think that after this debate, the Croatian Parliament must very clearly warn the very ministries that are clearly listed in the report as ministries that do not care, which do not care what the Office of the Police Attorney is looking for. So, the Ministry of Construction, Justice, Social Policy and Youth, Science and Education and Sports, but also the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development. And these are the ministries of which a citizen asks, very often looking for those responsible for theirs or theirs, the life of a citizen or a citizen, the life of every day. These are the ministries that have to respond promptly if they don't already respond to a citizen or citizen, if they don't answer to people who are in trouble and certainly do, for example. The Ministry of Social Policy will not report to anyone who is not in trouble and to the Ministry of Justice anyone who has long waited for likely justice. Then, if they are not already addressing the citizens, they should certainly address the Ombudsman or the lawyer and all the other lawyers. And another principled remark about our Rules of Procedure. So the government made it clear and gave its opinion on the occurrences of discrimination for 2012, so this is one of the documents we are discussing today. And the government has made it clear that its representatives who will be present at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament will, when it is discussed, be ministers of internal affairs, justice, administration, health, education and sports and science, of course, representatives of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing and all the deputies and assistant ministers I have listed. And as we can see from the beginning, they've been gone. This is a very well-intentioned, very practical remark and my proposal not to discuss such reports in the future without a representative of the Government. Why, because during the debate, they can always answer and answer not to us but to the public why some problem is not solved, why some question that is referred to. I'm sure it's such a... State office for renovation and housing care, why no specific case has been solved, a specific name and last name. Those representatives who are listed here will be present and not, we could react. So, Madam Vice-President, I suggest that in the next debate on such reports, we certainly insist on the presence of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This debate and the moment when we can ask a question with the right of reputation, what is the position, what is the real impact in society in political space because here we are talking about the political space of the attorney general's office and I dare say sometimes very weak, very weak. In any case, this reputation and influence is often contrary to the law, or laws that regulate the work of these offices. And now for those phenomena that this report points to. In particular, everyone who warns, including in this report, and through these reports at several levels, to the position of all those in Croatia, all those who are still struggling with unemployment. So this whole segment of employment is something that is particularly important in this report, which must also be our attention in this debate. Employees and unemployed, in which way they are all discriminated against by the unemployed. However, I also especially warn of one category among the unemployed, of course they are young, but it seems particularly to me that women are discriminated against. So this is one famous fact that we often talk about, which we often warn, that women are further discriminated on the labour market, that only women are naturally wondering if they are married, whether they have children, whether they want children. In employment these are the questions asked by employers, but also very difficult, to look at all statistics, to hire women over 45 years old, so women who lose their jobs above 45 years of age are very difficult or almost in no way employed. So for most employers, they're old, they're unspective. Unfortunately, it is often spoken to in conversations. Especially women with disabilities, and since the area discussed in this report and mobbing, of course, women are the most often and who have been thrown out and they are often victims of mobbing again. Women have fewer salaries, so, of course, women with the same qualifications who do the same jobs in the same jobs very often have fewer salaries, so logically, and the subsequent fewer pensions, poor working conditions, were mentioned here, especially women who work in stores in large centres, grateful if they can work and when their working hours are extended to 21 or 22 or 23 hours. Women in politics, we could open up one whole debate but there's no time for that right now, about discrimination against women in politics. I could talk a lot about it myself and write about it, but I won't talk about it this time anyway. The fact is, that's why the attorney general, or the attorney general, doesn't deal with it right now, but he probably wants to do it at some of the next periods because there are re-elections, different choices, and we'll see the percentages of women again. Certainly one part of politicians, men still think that women are the decorations of politics, the decorations of democracy and that they should be highlighted here and there when we need them to be able to say that our parties and that our policy is in general and that our state is generally democratic. Single mothers, it's the same topic that we could discuss further when we talk about discrimination against women. Single mothers, divorced women, all those who live alone and who do not have a man, a husband, a partner, are very often exposed to discrimination against which ladies and gentlemen are silent and who are reluctant or not spoken of in public. Discriminator speech, that's something that's also said in the report. Discriminator speech or discriminatory speech in the public space of a public person, especially politicians. Of course, this is extremely important and that we should be constantly warned about this when we speak here in the Assembly, and here in the assembly we are very often witnessing extremely discriminatory speeches where people are being discriminated against personally, so not politically but very often personally. It's a level we should never allow, never accept. Why does it matter? Because public speaking, in particular politicians' speech, forms a social climate towards a particular group, according to certain groups, individuals, especially minorities. Of course, I don't only think about national minorities, I mean all minorities, all different minorities. Well, here's the thing about women. When it comes to politics, then it's certainly women in minority politics, so that's what I mean. According to the disabled, to disabled people very often and unconsciously in public space when someone wants to be marked incompetent, stupid, unwise, someone who has to leave, someone who has to be removed, then disqualified with epithets that are very discriminatory. And to repeat one part of the people who say that are probably not aware of what they're saying, so when it's said that the government is deaf and blind to certain problems. Here you have to be very careful about what is said, because these qualifications are of course said to be incompetent, so it is said that all those who are unfortunately disabled, persons with disabilities are equally incompetent and we know that this is not only not so but also that we have a lot of people with disabilities who have made excellent successes, have achieved excellent success in different areas of life from economy to of course sport. Discrimination in sports competitions, insults we hear every day especially in major competitions. What is certainly a fact they are condemned from opportunity to opportunity, but real, real, public condemnation to the end and no rest, especially officials in different sports institutions. Because, in fact, we are witnesses and some sports officials, especially in popular sports that are only often and unreservedly discriminating others, and that is the fact that we are facing. The media. In the media, it is quite a continuous presence of sexual stereotypes and sexism, which is also discussed here and warned about school content. We probably have a few more generations to completely remove these stereotypes like when it comes to women in different illustrations, then it's ladies with viclars in their heads, or in their hair. Not in the head, but in the hair, of course, with the apron. But then when he tries to introduce himself to men from any position, then it's gentlemen in suits or sports clothes with briefcases or newspapers when they're resting or with books. So it's something that's the same thing that's important because it's been growing up since the first year of life, since we were born. What we learn at home about respecting others, that it is bad and that it is unacceptable for others to discriminate and despise others, we must do evil to others in our own home. One who doesn't learn it at home is very, very hard to overcome it ever regardless of the kind, shape and attainment of education. At the end of the day, Madam Attorney-General, I want you to be successful and that at the end of your term you can really draw a line and say that you were just, sharp, because you are expected to be uncompromising. Because you are one of those institutions that defends above all fundamental human rights, every man, every person in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52425	Thank you very much. Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I heard from Mrs. Kosor at the moment when you were talking about discriminatory speech in public space, and at the time, of course, it occurred to me because you mentioned primarily illegal and inadmissible in that speech first of all in this assembly. And that's when you mentioned, you gave a special emphasis on politicians. It was only later that you said that I had already responded to the replica because I think it's far away, I don't even justify this, of course I condemn it along with you, but a far greater problem for me is also this discriminatory talk in public space, and in particular that we don't imagine it, so we're less listened to in particular some of the consumables of this public talk than they listen to in particular in sports, in the entertainment world, and what I particularly care about is that consumer miles are young. And that's what's inadmissible and it seems to me that we as a society haven't always found the best answers there is. So here's what might be today's debate between us and the stage for one such message. So in that sense, I apologize in that only part of it because you later in your speech and made some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52427	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52428	Yes, thank you very much. Right, so I was speaking in general about public speaking, about all those who participate in public space in different ways. However, I particularly pointed out politicians and politicians so that there would be no confusion, and politicians because fortunately, or unfortunately, I am not sure, we have some more space than many others who also appear in public space because here is the attorney general who should appear in public space. She picks up when she gets a chance, and there's her chance the media, because then she can talk more, they're hard to provide. It's the same part of this debate. But why I think politicians are important, not because we would be particularly important otherwise, but we are important because of the space that we have here and now that the transfer is, etc., that we must always and at any time never cross the line in terms of that personal disqualification or political disqualification if you will. So that line should never be crossed. Unfortunately, only or most often when you look at the analysis of all the newspapers on all the televisions that exist and broadcast in Croatia, unfortunately, the chance to end up in these journals, to get their space on information shows, often only those from the political space that lowers that bar, disqualify and that eventually abuse that space. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. But we'll keep trying, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52429	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and fellow Members of the House. I'll start with a letter I got during the day. The letter was sent by a young person who is 100% disabled, and I will not make a diagnosis since I respect the dignity of that person who says: "On August 27th, I just got a rejection for an electric motor scooter because it's the only thing I can drive because of my condition, but someone thinks that an electric scooter should not be on the list of HZZO aids. HZZO offers me a wheelchair that I can't drive, so another type, and the price of these carts is higher than the price of an electric scooter for 500 kuna. However, strict adherence to the rules obviously leads to misunderstandings, even though it is cheaper that scooter that is similar to that person does not want to prescribe that scooter." I can say the name and the last name because she's not hiding it and out in public, so I can say it's Mrs. Christine Terihaj. Today it's like someone said here World Day of Poverty, but he didn't hear Mrs. Attorney General, it's not World Day of Poverty, it's World Day Against Poverty. In Croatia, however, the World Day of Poverty could be declared without this fight because the poverty rate in Croatia is increasing year by year. It is believed that below the poverty line today, a third of the population lives in Croatia. So about 30%, 33%. And every day that percentage increases. Poverty in the world as well as in Croatia is very current, not the only problem for the citizens of this country. Injustice sometimes hurts more than an empty stomach. Injustice is why a public defender is sometimes the last shoulder to cry for disfellowshipped people. People who can't find their justice through institutions, people who come across long, long processes in public service administrations, ministries who seek what belongs to them or who think it belongs to them and who can't get answers. Even if someone doesn't belong to something, at least let the answer be written that they don't belong. As I have one defender waiting for eight years to answer whether he can get what he wants or can't. There's been no response from the Department of Defense for eight years. Is that normal? What kind of state are we in, and we're increasing and constantly as someone says we're hiring here on the key. That's what they used to say in Bosnia when it was being hired on the key. The head of the municipality is Croatia, and the deputy Serbs and Muslims or Bosniaks, it doesn't matter. So here and here. As the government comes to power, employment is carried out according to the party's party key. It's perfectly clear and visible, it can't be hidden anymore because everyone sees it, everyone feels it. Especially those who run for office so they don't get accepted, they know it. Sometimes there are such answers as she stated here in her lawyer's report. He says you're too old for the state service and for the court, right, too old. There's discrimination in the age structure. Or so that when someone tries to get a job according to the national key in the judiciary, so from part of one of the minorities in Croatia and when they have eight candidates and they write the test, that test, or the State Judiciary Council, and when it is rejected because there are two better candidates than he is, and there are more points on the test, when he asks for insight to see why these two are better. If they wrote that paper better than him, that test, then they can't get it. He says you can only get your work, not other people's work. So how will you know that, how will I know to confess to that commission that those two were better than me? Based on what, how? As I have said in one replica, all of us advocates who listen and who are moving among our citizens are, in some sense, a public civil defender every day or a telephone call or a written path or leave me there in a party of paperwork in order to say, I have to intervene, I have to, I want to intervene legally and I have asked myself and asked the mass not to the attorney general but to the ministries that are in charge of certain areas of trouble for people who are experiencing in their lives, about the injustices that are being done to them, which, as I have sometimes said, hurt more than poverty. And today I asked someone here to try and work things out. That is why we justify and we need to justify our name or place of employment of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the people. Who are we representing? We represent Croatian people, Croatian citizens. And today, I've also asked Clarina to do something as part of the government in one of the local administrations to look at something for me, not to say he'll handle it, but please look at something in the Tisno Municipality on Murter and part on the continent around the bridge. But I don't want to talk about it specifically, is it not the subject of all this? Well, it can be a good topic at the end of the public defender, so the price of municipal contributions is different for the locals and the weekends and that is 7 times higher for the weekends than for the locals in the municipality of Tisno. But we'll try to solve it with a peaceful solution. The control of e-mails and phone calls on HRT and that's loud and clear, no one on this side said it wasn't true. Even two people got hired to work on it right now, one I guess on phone calls to listen, and the other on e-mails. Ms. Attorney General, did you intervene with HRT on that? You listened to the debate the other day about it. After all, some things have resulted in a very unpleasant effect on HRT. It used to be called public defender, and television is public, it's the same adjective, it's public television and public defender, it's a public service. Two of the same adjectives, and look how it's done. The same adjectives but action completely different on that public television or public media service. I'm asking you to stand up for this case on our public eyewitness, as you might say. I'd hate to talk about work disputes and work problems and working relationships. That's the biggest number of complaints. You have here writing mobing during sick leave etc. where we're about to find ourselves and this is discrimination, and you even have the feeling that people on sick leave and employees in the state services get fired in the state service. So who's running the rules? It wasn't private that he said it was over now, it was in the state service. I may also be able to give you an example if you want, but I may not have time for that right now, but I can give you examples of that, and I have information about that. The crisis in society isn't just a material crisis. The crisis in the society of recession in the society of poverty leads to confrontation. So when the situation in the family is such that the government lacks property mostly comes to confrontation with any child, parents of multiple confrontations. They say if there's no bread in the house there's a fight, it's an old folk proverb, and so is society. If such a rate of poverty is such a recession, so much indifference then there is confrontation. It would be good and durable for the poverty and poverty rate to be so much, and for the state and public services to work neatly and neatly to be the service of citizens, timely, I speak in good time. Because this isn't the name of the government or the mayor or anyone to rule the people, it's just to manage what the people of his tax and all the other contributions to that or what he has at his disposal, to manage, to serve, not to rule. If it comes from the title of government and behavior that someone is government, then it's exactly how we have cases of dealing with various ministries. This is where you listed the Ministry of Regional Development as the first one to have problems with your answers, as well as citizens. Well then, the Ministry of Justice, so the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports or whatever Jovanovic says, come on, it doesn't matter. And how's that? Here I am waiting for Minister Jovanovic's reply, the ministry of what I mentioned, when the subject of information will be required in primary schools. And I don't have an answer for 2.5 months. I set it up before the summer break. So information today is the foundation, the basis of civilization, society and whether it will become an information subject in primary schools at all, now it's an electoral object. Just for example, the speed of our departments in response. Death cases in prisons, Mr. General rested his soul Djuro Brodarac died in Osijek prison under say vague circumstances. Did the public defender get interested in how he died and why General Djuro Brodarac died? You've been investigating the Osijek prison as I see here in the report on the performance of the national, preventive mechanism. You combed it well and there's a report on it, right here in this. There's no mention of that. A woman killed herself on Croatian television. There's no mention of that. Employee. This second fired, two not one, fired from Croatian television because they wanted to determine the truth about the murder. You're talking about mobbing, you're talking about the ill health of the work and the kind, and you see, you have deaths that ended with death, you're not responsible for it, but in order to avoid public, excuse me, the attorney general would be interested and interested in that, I don't understand. And there's something else I wanted to say here about your reports. Thank you very much for the statistics you've developed and obviously you've got them sooner than my representatives and the citizenship where I've actually discovered some things and I didn't know because the statistics of our National Statistics Bureau still don't go public because they count, they probably have us as a Chinese, so while they count us all and see what's there and what's not there, it might take a few years to get a new census in 10 years, 2021, a new census. I guess we'll get the data by then. When I say that in that list, in that information that you've listed here, which I'm about to quote now, there's information that someone said here with a college education, with a high level of expertise of 37,000 unemployed people. Furthermore, here there are data on the number of national minorities that I didn't know exactly, I knew about whether, ostensibly as Maras Minister said, it was a very nice impediment to him, but here there's an exact number that you listed and then clearly the possibilities and events that happened and in connection with the occurrence of discrimination against these minorities that are numbered here, and they're numerically giving data on the number of these minorities, which, here, surprised me, that you borrowed that data from the National Statistics Office. About the deadlines here I'm going to start and so a mass of data and a mass of information and mass and I'd say discriminatory procedures are sticking in my head. Well, then here's how I might be jumping off topic. And about that, for example. You've well noticed that the search warrant at the hospital on the counter says to be ordered by email or fax. So my dad never even saw a box called, Internet or so on, or computer, never put a finger on it, never turned it on him how he'd email the hospital when he had to go for eye examination? Telefax doesn't own a lot of people either, and he's 87 years old. And you've noticed that well. And, well, here I am going to add another pearl like this that writes, where it says on one hospital general practice to measure the pressure every first Monday of the month. Every first Monday of the month, you can measure the pressure. Well, I guess when the pensions come and pays to get the pressure. Yeah, I mean, this is an illusion that's not good and it's not pretty especially to fellow doctors. But I don't understand that pressure is measured, and that's enough once a month to measure people's pressure, and whoever comes, if they don't come, there's no pressure tomorrow. Well, it's an interesting phenomenon for us. Or that in the police building, I'm not going to tell the police department that a payment is made on one kuna to get one document. I won't say a single document. So, one bill, worth one kuna and when you get paid, then they tell you four kunas, so how do four? Well, there's three payments. A fee. Well, that's all the stuff from ordinary life. Or if it comes to your performance, and I don't know why, the credit of this one, and when in FINA you settle that obligation so that you can get paid, then say wait 15 days. And why wait 15 days if FINA is this control mechanism that determines that you paid that day and what you owed. He says he needs to confirm that his money is sitting down. So where is it, where are we, in what state do we live? So what do you think China has to do with how many employees they should have and how many FINAs and so on? Terrible, terrible things can be seen here. You statistically counted them, explained them, made recommendations. You even made recommendations for changing certain legal acts and you dared to, I mean, come on under quotes. So, where there really is an existing legal obstacle, it has become an obstacle to, or has become an object that makes people appear to you, and that would not have to be if the legislation had changed. And that's good. And you can say that you have both shown some courage in recommending a change in the legislation. About statistics, your statistics, I wouldn't say here by name every item but I have to say that someone here mentioned that you had and wrote here 1800 new cases in 2012, which is common... a figure for all these years here and there 100, 200 more or less and there are 35 officials and two consultants. Well, that turns out to be one case a week for one clerk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52431	Thank you very much. You've got replicas, so you'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52432	So 52 weeks times one clerk times 35 is 1800 and something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52433	My colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52434	Here's a thank you for your patience and here's to a well-intentioned debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52435	You haven't had enough for 20 minutes. Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52436	My colleague Grubisic, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney General. Well, you offered me a job when you were talking about quitting during my sick leave because I have one case from Sibenik. Before I tell you what the case is, I want a lawyer a lot of success in the fight against injustice. I wish that out of these 1800 cases, there are certainly so many ugly, bad ones because in Croatia, in addition to so many anonymous DORH reports, I think that you should have several hundred of these 1800 cases where there are enormous damage to people. Here's what happened to my colleague Grubisic in Sibenik when you talked about sick and fired. In Sibenik, the former director of the national park was removed, the man was on sick leave, and now I think he was 14th, 15th, 10th, fired these days even though he was on sick leave. So I'd like to ask you that if you could... Well, that's nice of you, the party sues you, judges to fire you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's all there is in Croatia, and that someone has a criminal record, so I got in Sibenik from the SDP's anonymous criminal charges, so they didn't result. A man needs to be proved if he did something and then, but in any case, he got fired during his illness. I don't know if there's an excuse for Zanzibar, if there's one in Zanzibar, but it's obviously in Croatia and it's not the only case. There are certainly hundreds of cases, and so I really ask you to insist on fighting injustice and to do as much for these people as possible because 1800 cases, it's reported, many more unreported, people will be grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52437	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52438	Thank you very much. My colleague Kulusic, I thought that in this country it was worth the presumption of innocence to the verdict, not on the basis of... so each of us can receive today's application and tomorrow have been taken away from him by someone. There's a criminal record for a felony. So we can't just play with human fates like you said in this Sibenik case. And that is why it would be good to apply those, as Don Ivan said, my last name Grubisic, those evangelical principles, liberte, egalite, fraternite. Freedom, equality, brotherhood. But unfortunately, we're not all equal, as the government comes to... France, but Don Ivan said they were evangelical principles. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52439	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52440	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your statement, you said that the largest number of complaints in writing or electronic form, then you mentioned in part your father who does not even know how to turn on the computer which is not strange, is not just your father, there are very many people in the Republic of Croatia who do not know or can not do it. It's not the job of the attorney general just to wait for written complaints. The Attorney General or the Advocate General is obliged to listen if you want and the means of public communication and everything that happens in society, including the street, so that he can speak or warn about such violations, eclectic violations of human rights, freedom in the Republic of Croatia. And then you touched a part of the discriminatory health care unit, so you said you were waiting for certain reviews for so many and so many years, half a year, for a specialist year, which means that the system that does it doesn't work, but it's again the duty of the attorney general to warn about such things. And the third thing, the failure to provide adequate medical care at the time that ends with the quenching of human lives, also falls within the area of criminal acts, which is again the attorney general's duty to warn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52441	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52442	My colleague Babić, I think that a large part of the story, a large part of the cases that the attorney general handles and has in his domain these 1800s, is to be found every day for the most investigative newspaper of cases that would be read better than Sherlock Holmes or some other reading that falls within the sphere of science fiction that people do in this society, science fiction or fiction of an administrative apparatus, and that would be very interesting reading for the media as well. Therefore, it should not be populist to say this, but it would not be bad to establish some much better media connection in order to keep certain cases, and to prevent them from being published, described, and preventively so that this would not happen further, so that there would be no more such cases, so that they would not continue to take place in some other environments as they occur. Unfortunately in the media, especially in our public service as they like to say no, and that's sad. And about health care that we don't talk. Okay, it's media coverage with the exclusive appearance of the minister in public, no one else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52443	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52444	Thank you very much. A colleague Grubisic, so such a report should generally offer us that all of us who have any opportunity to make sure that those mentioned in these reports at least make them somewhat smaller in the following reports. Because unfortunately, they can't help themselves. If we're not going to help them, then we can fight as politically as we please. However, I would mention a group of people, so several thousand of whom we could have very much helped. In this report, no one mentioned thousands of Croatian peasants who had lost 700 million kuna support, no one mentioned over 3,000 farmers who had to close down farms because they simply had to cut off the conditions and the way they did business and how they opened those farms overnight. And unfortunately, most of these people can be found in this part of which I will deal with colleague Vidovic because he will simply have nothing to live on. 'Cause look, when we're passing certain laws, we need to be aware that these laws always help someone, they hit someone, and that's why I'm talking and replicating this so I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, what you haven't said. Because at one point you said the government wasn't about the government but about giving. So, in that context. And I just mentioned Croatian peasants as a synonym of something. Unfortunately, in all governments, it probably always happens to take someone away, give someone away. But I think that this is an eclectic example when you say, when you made some payments in the sixth month just to do some training, because since 1.7 you are entering the EU in that segment, Croatian peasants have a special status and a special rule and you are boasting that you have paid for some support earlier. Then it's really an object that the attorney general should deal with in the report next year. Because I repeat, several tens of thousands of Croatian peasants have been dumped on the sidelines of this society by reducing these support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52445	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52446	Thank you very much. Col. Schuker has no Milinkovic, a colleague of Milinkovic, so you asked this question from the rural domain, that he delivered it to you through a link to ask a question, a replica of pardon. But here is really our Croatian agriculture in agony, so they don't even speak to the attorney general, although I certainly know that Pokrovac knows all possible secret administrative and other procedures, so he knows probably the role of the attorney general. But what worries is that this government did not honor the Kukuriku coalition with some of the agreements and signed agreements between the peasant associations and the government, the former government. So, Pui-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi-Pi. And now it's clear that the village ran out of 700, peasants with no 700 million kuna signed by the former government. And here's what I don't know with tractor protests whether there's going to be an address to the attorney general. But I don't know, I'd go to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and everyone as Pokrovac said, because these are really the rights that were signed, agreed and with those 700 million peasants counting. Unfortunately, they're not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52447	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52448	Dear fellow Grubisic, here we can connect Gorko and Krleža when you talk about peasants. The peasants are in agony and bottom. But I won't talk about it. You have rightly requested that Mrs. Pussy's lawyer put under her supervision and Croatian radiotelevision not as a program council, but to protect the freedoms of journalists and all employees of Croatian radiotelevision, because we see that chicanna is not only experienced by journalists, but rather by a lady who was concerned that there is no corruption on Croatian radiotelevision, i.e. to investigate possible corruption that came from the police and was fired. However, for the state of the Croatian broadcaster, the majority of the Assembly should be concerned before Madam Ombudsman. However, during yesterday's discussion of the Media Committee, the majority said that they were satisfied with the state of Croatian broadcasting, no, I'm actually sorry the HNS said it was not satisfied. However, if a plea occurs, he too will be pleased. We know that well. The Attorney General must point out loudly all the problems that are happening there. However, when he points to problems that we have said that the only flaw that is not loud enough then has to be, then he enters the scene exactly the Croatian Assembly, which the Ombudsman is responding to, or submits, a report. And we saw in that report where the tax institutions that actually don't recognise the institution of the occupier and so we're in one situation, so it's perfectly normal to get fired because of the opinion given.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52449	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52450	My colleague Vuksic, you mentioned a lot there and even corruption on Croatian television. But I think it's the D.O.R.H.'s thing, not the attorney general's thing. So, a matter of discrimination, a matter of mobbing on Croatian television, like these e-mail controls and phone calls. It's a matter of mere attorney general, but it's also a matter of corruption, crime, a contract with some kind of private house. It's a DORH thing. I wouldn't say it's a matter of mere attorney general. So, there's this job for the attorney general, but also for the DORH bohemian. Since the parliamentary majority, as you said on the board, are satisfied with the state of television, I guess they expect more suicides on Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52451	Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52452	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, I'll look right at your last part of your exposure. So, mobing as one that exists as the abuse of employees by the employer is something that is as a topic to me extremely important and important. Which I can confirm to you probably also colleagues from the Committee on Human Rights where we are especially when we are discussing and with a state attorney I have always warned and asked for these cases to be cited to us specifically as well as short-circuiting. However, I do not know if you have read the agenda but in the agenda, if I am not mistaken, it says that we are discussing the 2012 report on the work of the Ombudsman, we are discussing the 2012 Report on the occurrences of discrimination and we are discussing the 2012 Report on the conduct of the work of the National Prevention Mechanism. So, these cases you mentioned on HRT that are worrying, and I certainly believe that they will find their way into the report by any public defender of any state attorney now depends on the competent authorities not on the agenda right now. We can express concern but wonder why it isn't in this report is by me inexplicable. And secondly, I think that's where my colleague Roksandić and I mostly agree, I hope she doesn't mind if we stress that education is a lot of problems. That is why education is also a solution to the problem of the occupier as an institution because many people do not know what the occupier is doing. When you say that the Ombudsman has dared, or is now a lawyer, to propose to amend the legal regulations, it is the job of the attorney general to warn about the lack of legal regulations in order to make it easier for us as a legislator to adapt them to practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52453	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52454	Thank you very much. Even the attorney general laughs because I'm being ironic about what she quite neatly understood. But unfortunately, my colleague, you didn't realize that she dared propose to amend certain legal regulations. That's how I have to laugh now. As for mobbing and television, it has been on TV before, if you need to, Mr Vuksic can give you a visit that deals neatly with television and cases from 2012. Although Mr. Cain was talking about the Cyrillic that's been going on these days, so I didn't mind him too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52455	And Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52456	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well esteemed colleague here and I will continue on your replication presentation even though it's not really in the 2012 report, but this is for us in the Assembly when we have the attorney general, I am sure that she is a woman and that there are a team of women around her that when this all hears that we will have the next report much better and that we will be much more satisfied. But I'd like to warn you of another problem, so from 2013, I'd say to one of the most vulnerable groups, which are old people, and the powerless ones who will no longer be retired by the postman. Unfortunately, these people, most of them, are sick, alone two, three in some villages that are 20, 30 and more km away from any bank, they receive pensions of maybe 200, 300 kuna and in order for the postman to bring them that pension they will have to pay. Well, I think it would be good for you to react, and I think the same thing when you say, you mentioned your father and e-mails, etc. No matter, we all have parents old and thank God that are still alive the same most of them, some yes. But here's a burning problem, and it should be warned, it's really a group of people who can't even complain to the attorney general because they can't even reach the post office. Well, here's what I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52457	Thank you very much. All the initiatives are good, but we are discussing the 2012 Report. ... Well, we'll discuss it when it's on the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52458	Well, thank you very much, comrade twilight. This is more your debate, I did not talk about post office or post office, but it is well mentioned that local mail is being abolished in Croatia and that in places where these mails have been abolished, so the post office has a problem with the payment of pensions. And I hope that the Attorney General will have that in mind for the 2013 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52459	And now we continue the debate. On behalf of the club of national minorities, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52460	Thank you very much. These reports can be accessed in terms of the objectivity of the report or enter into the problem that these reports actually treat and describe. This means that each statement in the Assembly during these reports can be either very short or very long. It's very short if we're going to limit ourselves to the debate about whether the attorney general did what this House did, the law, the citizens think it was supposed to do. Or whether the report on the occurrences of discrimination corresponds to an objective reality. Or whether the report on the performance of the work of the National Prevention Mechanism actually fits and objectively shows what it really does. If we decide, as everyone has decided, apart from Mr Vuksic, I must say, if we decide to talk about discrimination about what is not going on in this society, then it is actually an opportunity that in a summary form in 20 minutes we are now actually saying mostly what at least in half of our report should be said by the prime minister when he presents his report on the state of what is popularly said about the state of the nation. The other one should be about how to resolve the state of the nation, but to describe it. We who have been dealing with human rights all year round, we representatives of national minorities who are the most difficult subject of work, not to mention the Committee on Human Rights that deals continuously on these issues, is an opportunity for us not to talk about what we've been talking about all year but to talk about whether the Advocate has been working in the way we should. From all this here, the answer is yes and no. Yes, because she referred her proposals, her questions to the government, government institutions in general to the institutions of society legally, not because she couldn't do anything, because these institutions seem to have not responded. Now, this is what Mr Vuksic said, how can it be said that the Ombudsman who, as it is said here, should represent a moral pillar that is paid for and all those who work in her office are paid to be a moral pillar to point out that what is not going on, that... what is said by what comes from public change from society of ordinary people who have no other means than to describe and try to solve their problems how it is possible for the institutions and I will once again say here, it means in the report the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance and the General Government would say, how is it possible that they do not respond in a timely manner, and some times do not respond to requests from the Ombudsman to complaints from citizens to their work? That should be impossible. It means that it does not include the attorney's responsibility except to include in this responsibility that it does not report objectively and that there is no communication, and that such communication is missing not only in relation to the Ombudsman but such non-communication is actually one general phenomenon concerning the relationship between almost government institutions to be clear and other segments of society, including parties that should be in the common coalition. Such a relationship with the institution of the Ombudsman is a direct violation of the law which explicitly requires the obligation of state authorities, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority to ensure the availability of information and to provide all the information, acts and other documentation relating to complaints of citizens or to provide all necessary assistance to the Ombudsman at his request. An unscheduled response to the demands of the Ombudsman and her recommendations further makes it difficult to achieve the fundamental rights of citizens and to violate the credibility of this institution, which is constitutionally defined as the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. In view of this, the reasons for such non-communication should be established and, of course, see if any measures are possible to improve communication. I would humbly suggest you remember that word of communication. Many of what is not valid in today's Croatian society, the Croatian society is also because there is not enough communication. Communication is a very important word in everything I want to emphasize even what I'm going to say now. For the second time I have mentioned him, I have never mentioned him twice in my life, three, three years I will not mention him, I have asked myself to share his opinion but up to one limit, he wondered whether the Parliament was responsible for such non-communication or whether you and the Parliament were responsible for not solving problems and that the Ombudsman was unable to find a common language and access to the joint work of solving the problems of people who are getting more and more every day. I'm not going to use a demagogue that's the easiest thing I can say today when World Poverty Day is but people are getting worse and I'm not going to deepen that conversation. But is the Assembly responsible to what extent? Yes, but let's not forget one thing Parliament is mostly composed of party representatives. The presidents of the parties sitting in the Parliament are sitting in the government. It is therefore much easier to speak to the opposition than to the parties in power. If representatives in the Croatian Parliament had been elected, the situation would have been quite different by the majority system. Any MP would answer to his constituents. So forgive me for telling you so publicly but you answer to the presidents of your parties and you actually depend on which leg the presidents of your parties get up on, I'm sorry to say that, but that's exactly what it is. Because if someone is going to speak critically about the government's work, I'm not sure if it's going to be in the next term. The whole fight we fought national minority representatives about not being in the party lists was that we could rise up every morning, look in the mirror and say what we're going to say today and what we're going to represent today. So the Parliament is responsible for the fact that there is no such communication. Normally he is also responsible for this, but the system is so designed that that responsibility must actually rise where it exists. And that responsibility exists in the parties. So the parties, and especially the parties in power, and every so many in power, are responsible for the fact that there is no such communication that should solve the most important problems of an ordinary citizen. I'm here for any replica if you want to deny me about what I just said. And in the end, no one is perfect, but the National Minority Club believes that the Ombudsman is responsible and objectively doing his job. With the limits I was talking about. Perhaps, since it suits us, and you should consider that it suits us, or the parties, because it is chosen by the party may be more on the side to say the objectivity of the country where the President of the Republic marks who will be, in fact the President of the Republic is also the one who is running for the person and who has the greatest responsibility, which means that then the Ombudsman depends more on one person than on the parties, somewhere the King, is somewhere the function of the king. I will never forget that in Old Rome, in the Colosseum, gladiators who lost battle hoped, hoped that the audience would show their finger up or down rather than hope that the emperor himself would do it because it is easier to depend on the mildness and understanding of one than the larger number of people. So, with one sentence, I'm going to end up having less partictocracy, there'd be more justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52461	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. At your presentation, respected representative Branko Vuksic and Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52462	Since you've challenged me three times, you've asked yourself the same question, and I've wondered in my debate how it is possible for the government to disobey the attorney's questions or, in this case, the attorney's office. And then you asked if the Parliament was responsible or guilty. It is possible that the government is deafened on the attorney general's enquiries because the Parliament allows it. How many times has it been said here in the Parliament that the government is coming from the Parliament, not the Parliament from the government? However, it seems to me that the overall situation of democracy that we have already depleted on would be parliamentary democracy if Parliament had really decided. I think we've got two pillars of power, both judicial and executive. This legislation is the enforcer of the executive authority. That's the biggest problem. That's what most democracies are all about. So you said to forgive you, I guess most of you, what you're saying openly, thank God you spoke openly, that the majority electoral system is one part of the solution, should not depend on party heads. And you're right if you object to the head of the party you won't be on the list because you won't be high enough to enter the Parliament. But it's not always like that, sometimes parties punish members who jump out. They don't want to drown in the crowd and they don't want to drown in the gray. And even the party heads are powerless to save those people. So it's a different situation. But your conclusion in the end is excellent that less partocracy would be more power. And if it were more society, there'd be less politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52463	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52464	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your tolerance for not being able to lift the bat at all, but I wanted to lift the bat because I forgot because there are years that are but you have seen You've seen that I will.....the Intruder: The body language was unquestionable. [[I've been watching. Body language was unquestionable.]] Yes, the fundamental question is whether the parliament originates with the government or the government stems from the parliament. Not wanting, I mean it's autocritical that we understand each other, it's not criticism, it's autocritical, but when we establish a relationship by which the Parliament will call on ministers to defend a certain law and it will draw up two weeks, a week in advance an hour and a minute in advance, and not always what was in those 21 years that I'm in Parliament, and not that Parliament depends on whether ministers have time. Then at that moment, we will be in the parliamentary system. But don't forget, and parliamentary systems are made up of parties. I was always a supporter, as I said before the majority selection system or at least what was once, half the majority and half the proportional, but that's the thing the parties themselves decide and the parties themselves have to fight for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52465	So there was both criticism and self-critics. That's not bad. New replica and respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52466	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I won't have enough time so I'll hurry up, what's allowed Mr Furia Radin is not Anti Babic, but what you're going to do, we're living in such circumstances today. I was today, and when I picked up the line, I wasn't allowed. It's for you, even though you're not. But I'm not mad about it. I'm glad you're talking. But you could have talked more on behalf of the board since you're the longtime chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. These are three united points. I expected far more that you would talk about these things because it is still the problem that should interest you much more. I'm not saying it wasn't, you said less autocracy more democracy, but you're yourself... and the parties are still one more complex system. And today it was about replication, and also about your report, you said that there was no possible discrimination against the majority of the minority. I don't share that opinion, that's what I told you today. The parliamentary majority or government is ideologically prone to the minority and it discriminates on the majority, and by demeaning the world's most, remember, I'll only mention two examples. The first is the abolition of "Praise Jesus and Mary" on Radio Sljemen, and the second is the eclectic discrimination of one believer accused by the student of homophobic statements, and then the LGBT groups sued her, publicly lynched her, harassed her, and then logically, they lost the court's power and I won't finish it before you lift the tablet. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52467	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52468	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to go into the measure of what's been said, and for the same reasons today I haven't had a long speech on discrimination because we've been talking about it all year, and I've decided on one approach because choosing both approaches creates more problems than it solves. I even think, Madam Attorney, it's not safe to put these three reports together because you actually answer with one vote on all three reports, not just yours... which is on the report on your work, and the report on your work depends on whether you're going to be next year. That's what I remember when we took one of these lawyers off like that. I mean, I agree that you have your opinion on what to say when it comes to discrimination, I'm just saying that if someone is discriminated against, no matter what the number of someone, whether they're women, whether they're colored people in South Africa sometimes, whether it's a church in the communist system that was majority. Whoever is being discriminated against is not a majority but a minority because it is a characteristic of a minority.... That's what I was only going to say today when I answered you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52469	A new replica and respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52470	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Radin, I will only elaborate a little on the part where you spoke about the Parliament and when you mentioned that we are all dependent on our party presidents, and you are not dependent on them because you are on your own on the list. But you see the situation, you know, you've been a lot longer than all of us, not all of us, but most of you, you're, no matter what you're independent, you've always bowed to the Parliament's majority so that you can accomplish some of your things that should be in the interest of your electoral body that voted for you. And recently, a law came to the Assembly last year and the Law on Assembly MPs was withdrawn when it was in the first reading the possibility that parliamentary MPs would return to their jobs and then they would be completely independent. We who have left our jobs so we are here on a difference of pay when there is no Parliament working, we have a place to go back and I must say that what we are saying in the Parliament is because it is our political commitment. Most certainly here on this side, I'd say everyone because it's our political commitment and we don't have to think about what's going to happen if next year or I don't know we won't be on the list because we have a place to go back to work. That's what matters. And unfortunately, the bill, the bill was withdrawn, and there were parliamentary deputies brought into a very discriminatory position unlike the state officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52471	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52472	The only thing I can tell you is that I didn't expect to, I don't think I normally expected you to agree with me. I mean, that's implicit of what I said. I'm the one who cartooned to get along. But the way I cartooned it is actually the way I think it should, and that's just my opinion of an ordinary independent agent who, like you said, answers to yourself, and you could say that since you answer to yourself, you could have talked a lot more than you said in those 20 years. And you could have told me that. I mean, I advise you next time so you can tell me that, too. But when you say that we, that minority advocates always adhere to most, that's not true. I've been in opposition for eight years. That's what the old MPs remember. I've been eight years since '92. By 2000 he was in opposition and could always be in opposition again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52473	That would be a shame. We're going to discuss it further by the committee clubs. It is the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52474	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to welcome Mrs. District Attorney with my colleague. And as my predecessor said, a colleague of Radin who spoke on behalf of the National Minorities Club and we at the SDSS Club will accept this report and the reports of those other two points. We think maybe we could talk, so we can discuss these issues. But as it is, so it is said and we will try these few things now in the debate to unite. So we will accept the report because we think that the Ombudsman objectively presented the state of certain categories of citizenship, that is, our society with certain problems. After all, we think when it comes to the work of the attorney general as the first thing in this report that she couldn't have done otherwise. We think her work space was determined and some other things besides her will to do the job. So, we all know that this group of problems that have been articulated here in the report is a very crucial decision making political will, that is, the willingness of the executive authorities to co-operate with the attorney general. In the end, you've seen it as a very bad phenomenon. My colleagues have already said, so let me say it again. You have concluded that some competent authorities, and you have mentioned here the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction, Justice, Science, Sports, and even finance that you have difficulty communicating in obtaining feedback on these matters. So, we can, we can hardly achieve in society an ideal social hygiene in terms of these negative phenomena. But what we can't allow is that the state apparatus, or executive authority, or civil servants, behave in the way you qualified here in this report. Then it becomes a serious phenomenon for conversation. Equally so very alarming is what you said here that the most cases of objections are in the sphere of the judiciary and in the sphere of working relations. Is this an indicative situation in our society and this can be debated in some way? Therefore, we will accept this report of yours. In previous mandates, in the previous term, we know that reports by the occupier were generally treated in a way that defended the position and the opposition attacked. And now the position of the same report with the same problems of the attack, that is, the position defends and the opposition attacks. Only the stakes have changed. A set of problems in this paper remained the same. And I have no illusion that this set of problems will be solved by the end of 2013 or by the end of 2014. So I have no illusions like that, and I'm going to talk about it when I talk about the problems themselves, that is, the metricity of this report. Unfortunately, a large part of the problem that you have detected here in this report refers to a category that we are now slowly speaking on the pervasive terms of the return population. Special government care, return population, housing care, and that's already the stuff we all know. Unfortunately, we talk about it all the time throughout the year as attorney generals of these things and we'll talk about it now and we'll talk about it all the time until this thing is done and arranged the way it should be done. This is about human destiny, this is about basic assumptions, so existential things like apartments, houses, such as existence. Therefore, we cannot go statistically beyond that, we need to say something about it no matter how many times we have and what opportunities and what topics we have put on the agenda. So, you're here talking about housing care, restoration and return. We will say that despite the report that the number of complaints remains the problem of the long-term conduct of the Regional Development Ministry. It's the essence of things. So probably this problem for people would have been resolved and resolved if there had been a certain will in certain institutions to end the matter both in the previous government and in this government right now. That's what I say responsibly. Therefore, the Laws on Areas of Specific State Care have been amended several times, but they have remained inconclusive, incomprehensible and very difficult to apply in practice. The procedures are complicated, there are plenty of documentation required, there are no transparent points procedures, publication of the user list, etc., etc. And in that thing, we're on the basis of all that where we are. Apartments are an existential thing for every man and even for people who are in the category of former homeowner. So, I'm obliged to say that. The housing of former housing rights holders on PPDS and outside the PPDS were not implemented in the same way as the illogical thing. We kept trying to sort this thing out, we persistently suggested to the previous government and to the current government that this thing had to be regulated normably uniformly. It's still such a condition that it's not regulated normably unique. Subtracted dwellings, therefore, the problem of holders of deprived housing rights is still treated as a humanitarian problem and is addressed as a social measure, not as a problem of fulfilling the restitution of rights and obligations. Because the fact that we put it in the social rights category has already made things wrong, so we've directed that thing in the wrong direction and we're here today where we are. I have to say here that the refugees and exiled Serbs of the former tenants not only have been taken away from the apartments they lived in before the war conflicts but have no right to donate to a state-owned apartment as former refugees from Bosnia who are resident status. Therefore, it is a fact of fact. We still have one large number of unrepurchased apartments in the area of eastern Slavonia and Baranja. And we talked about it a lot. We still haven't done anything, and we're talking about budgetary capacity, budget deficits, and we're not saying how much financial potential lies in the sale of these apartments. Why didn't we put math on the table and say how much local and regional self-government and state-owned and state-owned we'd sold that number of apartments to people, let them buy like all the other citizens bought it. And I don't see why you don't do it? Unless there's some political implications behind it that I don't want to believe. Just rebuilding, so long-term proceedings is the basic problem of this thing. Enough to say that it's been 20 years since this whole thing, and that in 20 years we haven't completed the procedure, there are still some poor people whose life component is an existential component, because the reconstruction hasn't been completed in the past 20 years. I don't think it's gonna end for another five. And it's a condition. We have 42 villages without electricity today, we have a high standard in the EU, we boast about some standards, we don't like to compare with some other EU members, but we definitely have 42 villages without electricity where children still go to school, attend high school and elementary school with candlelight. And that's all costing the state 35 million kuna. And that's the problem all these years. 35 million kunas the 5 agencies will spend on the team. So that's the thing, that's the state of things. A fellow Shuker rightly warned in the morning about the work of the newly formed Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Of course, we formed the office only this year, and the office hasn't started working properly, both financially and financially, and it won't even finish the job this year. And we spent 2013 on administering things we should have done before. So, in order for him to start working must be the government to have an understanding of this problem, I call on her to have understanding and to install in budget positions the funds needed to keep that office normally working next year and making up for in some part of the backlog of the jobs they haven't done. We're completely realistic about that thing and we're trying to call it a real name. So there's no makeup in this whole thing. The situation is what it is. We still have 15 cases of people, so 15 cases of people, some kind of life fate where someone's moved into the house I'm not going in now, and that's the story, but someone else is the user of that facility, people are going back to that facility, they have to pay that user some sums of money to invest so far and even huge court costs and even executions on their property because they don't have people to pay from what these court costs are. It's not possible that neither the last government nor this government found any amount of money to resuscitate these 15 cases, that these 15 families live a normal life and that these 15 families don't show up before an international trial saying bad about this job we're doing. And these are things that are unacceptable to us. It's not about millions of figures, it's about goodwill and the desire to see that this thing in this way and the need for these 15 or 14 cases to end by the end of this year or next year so we can just say now there's finally a point on these things. Status issues are a particular problem. You still have a lot of citizens, our fellow citizens who live somewhere in our area that we are often not even aware of who came from the former states of the former Yugoslavia before the collapse and who have trouble with basic things, which is the status of citizenship of this country. They're strangers still. We are the bringers of normative acts, therefore, of the laws that we have tried to sort out in some way, but we do not say that there is one formal obstacle to this whole thing. So, in this respect, the main point of the remarks is the MUP's solution, the main assessment of whether anyone will enter Croatian citizenship brings SOA after some assessment, while at the same time having no obligation to explain again why it has brought a negative assessment for such people who live in the Republic for 20 years and have been seeking Croatian citizenship. We have an example of a gentleman from Rijeka who lives today in Rijeka for 45 years constantly in the status of a foreigner with a personal identity card and 20 years submits a request for Croatian citizenship to the MUP which the request refuses because his behaviour cannot conclude that he respects the legal order and customs of the Republic of Croatia and accepts Croatian culture without reason of that request. And that's it. And that man is now in life's torment, and it's already becoming at the end of the laziness after 45 years. I could talk here about the part where you referred to retirement insurance and... but I'm not going to say this, so we've never talked about the category of Croatian citizens looking for pensions in the period '91-'95. This is one thing that needs to be seriously debated, and which is likely to come on the agenda one day, so I am not prejudged here, but I am also suggesting to the Ombudsman that no one has ever dealt with these matters before, or that this group of citizens and the short-lived rights, because pensions are something that has been acquired right, which we cannot politically take away, only by decision of the judicial authorities for a variety of reasons, but by political decision we cannot deny any right which his right is acquired anywhere in the world and after all the wars has been so and so will be. Now I would like to say something about this other topic, and this is about the Ombudsman's staff report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2012. as well as previous years, the most represented basis in complaints of discrimination received during 2012 is mainly racial or ethical, skin colour, national origin, which accounts for 29.7% of the total number of complaints received. In our view, what is the attitude towards discrimination in Croatian society today? We think we have two problems, it's a problem of overcoming and not reporting discrimination. A small number of complaints of discrimination and the application for protection of rights are seen in reasons because discrimination is particularly present among the most sensitive minority groups and they have one mistrust, we have to admit it, one mistrust in the institutions of the system and have a certain fear of possible personal consequences in the event of a declaration of certain discrimination. It's especially visible in a job contest. So, according to what we have as information in the club, the most common answer to the question of why no proceedings are being initiated or discrimination is being reported in this tendering process is the fear that in that case, there will never be a chance of a job again. That's not good, but it's about an atmosphere that rules among people who go from job application to job application. Also here we talked about discrimination in public life, so in public space, there are stereotypes, there are prejudices, we're all talking about public talk, there's a lot of talk about public talk, and the relationship of the media to certain phenomena, I'm not going to elaborate sports here is one special story. Mostly it's a polygon for manifesting very ugly phenomena of discrimination. The latest research by young people in the time of the crisis in cooperation of the Institute for Social Research Zagreb and the "Friedrich Herbart" Foundation published this year. They say "So our youth will highly value tolerance but at the ranking of the acceptance of different social groups it will show marked intolerance towards Serbs, Macedonians and Albanians. There are only homosexuals below them, and there are Roma at the bottom." The same is said of research on the acceptance of different social groups as potential neighbours. We are fully aware of some of the relations but in this House were fellow parliamentary representatives who, in their free interpretation of the media, said they never agreed to have a Serb for the son-in-law, that is to say. What's that? Also, citizens from the nearest countries in the surrounding story are unwanted while homosexuals are completely undesirable. We have here a State Department report I have here problems assessing the State Department since 20.4.2013.Where the US State Department said it published on Saturday a regular annual report on the state of human rights in the world, and social discrimination, cases of violence against members of ethnic minorities, especially the Serb and Roma minorities, corruption in state structures, which remains deeply rooted in intolerance and violence against homosexuals, bisexual and transsexual groups and the slowness of the judiciary. It's something that's qualified us with a serious organization in the third month of this year. As far as employment is concerned, I could bring data here, the fact is that in the judiciary, in the state administration and in the police, the number of participations, the percentage of the participation of minority employees compared to the previous years. So every year That percentage's dropping. [[Intruder: Bring an end to the esteemed MP.]] That's exactly why I'm going to end up even though we could talk about this subject, and I think we're talking about these things because of this kind of debate and we should discuss it separately, but what's there is. So I want you to continue to work as successfully as you have done so far and to be, according to our seeing things, some kind of moral verticality in this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52475	Thank you, and we're going to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52476	Dear fellow Horvatt, you said that it was difficult to achieve in society one, that a social hygiene could occur. And you said you were worried about, or the Serb national minority, fear of losing jobs and personal fear of discrimination if I understood it well. Well, like the phenomena in the media of hate speech and the like. However, without seeking to challenge freedom of information and freedom of public word in general but I cannot notice that the News weekly issued by the Serbian National Council, whose editor-in-chief is your esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac, does not contribute to the improvement and establishment of multiethnic and multicultural trust or promotes any values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and should. And if that paper reads the State Department, then the report will be even worse. In the texts published by this weekly, it can no longer be called an excess, but speech, illustrations and continuity of editorial policy represents, continuous editorial policies represent one insult and debauchery, and represents an ordinary hate speech. You're aware of that. Because how else to characterize the text in which Croatia is called the American whore, the Croatian State, the NDH-Asian state, the HDZ fascist party, is morbidly mocked by the Catholic Church and so on. In any case, it could be said that there are almost no numbers, this week's funding from the Council for National Minorities not to talk about it. I expected from you, but also from the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minority to react to this, Mr. Radin, and I especially expected the attorney general to come forward... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52477	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52478	Thank you. So about that first part of your replica, I was talking about that we can hardly achieve ideal social hygiene, so no, but ideal social hygiene in this way, so now I'm not spreading it all together in a way that the institutions aren't doing our job. In a way where institutions do not provide those types of information and transport which should be provided under the Law on the Ombudsman. So how do we solve this, then how do we solve the problems we've been talking about within this institution? About the news, so I have no intention of being their lawyer here. The editorial policy of that list is their autonomous matter. Mr. Milorad Pupovac our fellow parliamentary representative is not an editorial policy, not an editor, he only had one good desire in one period to form, to form a list of weeklys to deal with minority issues. And in that part, I'm having his engagement around these newspapers. Everything else is a matter of responsible editors who need to do their job, professionally. In addition, those who hold their own account to the public or some other institutions who believe that they, through their work, have violated or crossed the limit allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52479	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52480	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. You told your colleague Horvat there would be no doubt, no opposition to attack, no power to defend. In order not to make the ladies feel, ladies so as not to feel attacked I haven't even seen anyone from the opposition that attacked the Ombudsman's staff report mostly everyone talks positively about the report with less grudges, talk about the practice negative, it's not attacking the attorney general but attacking the government. You. So I don't think that's the situation here in the Parliament, and besides, it's not, it's not the classic type of attack, it's the remarks that are being observed. I think today is a very constructive, peaceful debate and a good atmosphere in the Parliament. And what you've noticed is actually well-detected, non-reporting, over-discrimination and all those injustices,... The discrimination itself I would not bring it down to the national level is a reflection of the non-functioning of institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian institutions do not function, public perception of institutions especially in the Croatian Parliament we know well what is and we know well what Croatian citizens believe and what institutions they believe in. We all have to do a lot more together to get citizens to trust in Croatian institutions. We always go from ourselves here to the Croatian Parliament. Especially in the Croatian Parliament. When the first time he falls in the Croatian Parliament in the exam one proposal of the government law then we will say well, the Croatian Parliament has become a thinking legislative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52481	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52482	So I thank you. This morning, before the break, however, there were some negative assessments by the opposition and even a public view that the report should not be accepted. In that context, I said it, and we also remember that a few years ago on this other side, when the stakes were replaced, a similar assessment was for the report... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, so that's it. I'm just sharing your opinion on this when you gave an assessment of the work of the state institutions, that the state institutions are doing their job seriously and completely, and that would make it easier for the attorney general and these institutions she represents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52483	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52484	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Mile Horvat, I would agree with most of what you said, especially with this still worrying fact about apartments over which once there was a tenant right, but here you suggest that replacement apartments or ransom be given because there are not so many people. We need to know that what we met in 2000, and when we made such a plan, how many houses should be restored so as our defenders fought. There were also those who thought that this was the way Croatia was defended, so they crashed through cities past any war operations of the Serbian house, which gave Croatia a terrible, terrible burden and how much compensation we had to pay for such collapsed houses. During that period, it was horrifying that the suspended provision of the article seemed to me to be 368 or so of the Law on Mandatory Relations where the State was responsible for such matters. That's why we were in that past period, and even now this and all governments have so far had to pay a huge amount to build that house. However, in respect of dwellings where there was a household law, we know in Zadar cases, unfortunately not yet solved, where people were killed, moved other people, and I think that this should be resolved in a much more just way to take away the opportunity and return, so that they can buy their heirs to buy these apartments, and that these persons, although legally legal but essentially illegally acquired a tenant's right, i.e. later property to move out of these houses to satisfy justice. And if any who destroyed such a single house had paid or the state had charged for it, they wouldn't have had such consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52485	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to Article 238, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic is talking about something Mr Horvat has not said at all. It turns out that the Croats committed an aggression on their own country and destroyed Vukovar, set the cells on fire, brought down Shkabrnja and everything else. So, don't forget your colleague Ingrid what this is all about. ... You're twisting history completely. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52487	Please act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know, you're aware of that, Mr. Agent. A new violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Shucker. If you're unhappy with writing a letter... You won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52488	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe that you have injured Rule 238. You had to warn MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic that it is false. So in this House of Commons, a unanimous Declaration of the Homeland War was adopted during the coalition government. This is where you made the notorious lie. Due to a few individual cases you can't rock hundreds of thousands of Croatian defenders, you can't let go of...... Excuse me. Read what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52489	Let's finish this, please. Bring out what you want, it's about time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52490	Look, obviously someone can say whatever they want because they're having trouble with some things, but that's his problem, but I think Mr. President that you should have warned her about this inappropriate statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52491	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shuker, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure are not scheduled for the chairman to assess the truthfulness of the allegations or the accuracy of the allegations, you know that. If that were the case, the chairman would have a lot, a lot more work to do. I'm afraid that's not the way it's supposed to be. If the chairman were an arbitration officer, he'd have a lot of work to do. That's not the way it's supposed to be. Your Honor, Mr. Horvat, would you like to respond to the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52492	Sure. Thank you. So, colleagues Ingrid, I appreciate your desire to get into this problem and it's good to get into this problem and you need it because the problem is very complex and it's not easy to solve because we as lawyers know that the situation with these apartments that are taken away under various circumstances is being resold, and so more and more in the restitution today can be difficult to bring back. That's why we say the system needs to be done, so it regulates how the former tenants will get that possibility back, not in that same housing unit, but in some other equivalent of the value they had. I said it was a procedure that's stopped in the last two years, I said it was a procedure that we haven't done in the past 20 years, and we've solved it by the end. We started to solve, we didn't, we stopped now, the problem is also the ununity of the law. A special state concern, outside the PPDS, within the PPDS and what's the biggest major problem in that, we put the whole thing wrong in the beginning. We said it was a humanitarian question. That's not a humanitarian question. If we had defined it as a question of restitution of our own, taken away property as a legal category, as property rights then today would not have discussed this. When we talk about the humanitarian thing and we're going to bring it down to the housing of some who are unsettled, then we have a situation today that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52493	Thank you very much. The fourth replica and respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52494	Thank you very much, President. So I'm a distinguished colleague of Horvat to you in the part where you were talking about the housing of the refugees and the exiles. What do you say when we hear stories like this on this side? Over 150,000 buildings this country built on its own. No one has helped her alive, no country of Europe, the world by its means of borrowing, which from the budget, and then we hear that the defenders themselves have torn down houses, that we have attacked ourselves. Don't nibble! What do you guys do all the time? 150,000 and more and then in this session we warn you not to move or set up an office for residential care and renovation as an independent office. [[Intruder President: Please no bench!]] You'll disrupt the process that's under way and there'll be a stalemate. Look at the budget. We had over 300 million kunas, 330 million kunas available for this year. While in the ministry there was a 100% realization, when it passed into the office of realization 3%. They still have 264 million kunas at their disposal today. They spent $13 million. That's a fact. And do not listen and do what you do, and do what is wrong. And unfortunately, you colleagues and your party have supported it and insisted on it, and you have no right to look at the lady and put it as a sin on me. Because it's your own fault that you slowed down one process that went... And you will challenge him so much that even next year he will not give any results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know who rubs their hands for this? Minister of Finance. They'll take 200 million, and the exiles will be where they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52495	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52496	Dear colleague, we're not as a party too much of an influence on these things. That's the answer to this yours is that. So we couldn't. We're just at a certain point when we saw that the thing wasn't going well we tried to intervene in a way to do what was done. According to the latest information I have, the housing office has been operational. There's plenty of professional people to deal with these things. They made a projection of the budget in 2014. I am again convinced that the government will accept this budget, this cost projection for their work not only for the cold drive but also for the resolution and resolution of these problems that we are now discussing. And if that's the case, I think the 2014 report will be much more favourable at the end of the term of office. I'm an optimist by nature, and I think that's how it's gonna be. And I did not honor the Attorney General's responsibility for this situation. No, I'm just pointing out certain facts, the phenomena in the hope that this will help them in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52497	Thank you very much, Your Honor. There's a replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52498	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Horvat, I would not have sexed with you in most of your assessment of this report at the end of the day since you are a member of the national minority can be said in principle that your address was more than correct. You've made your views known. Some of us can, we can't agree. However, I'd like with you about two things simply to provoke you for controversy. We are constantly forgetting that in the past 15 years the Croatian state has been devoting 8 billion kunas as a consequence of the war from its budget. That's the average. It was a year when it was 10. Comrade Horvat, you know this well that in recent years there have been years when 600, 700 million were allocated in the budget to address the problem of municipal infrastructure in areas with the majority Serb population. The colleagues and colleagues who said that Croatian defenders had torn down houses only in the Banovina area were destroyed in the Homeland War in 650 km of power lines and several thousand kilometers of power lines and several thousand kilometers of low voltage grids and needed millions to restore all this together. When I was speaking and finally, I raised the issue of housing this morning, because I simply believe that some things that happen in Croatia are clean from the position where I have done some things before cannot simply agree that, for example, in the Court, in the city centre, you have 3 arranged buildings with arranged apartments, returned, regulated property rights to people who have gone to Serbia or to Bosnia or elsewhere. No one's staying in those apartments today. You have hundreds of these apartments and houses, thousands. And we simply as a state have to solve this problem for a simple reason to help these people who are in Croatia. Because you simply cannot face such problems indefinitely or with similar problems and exiled Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are unfortunately who hasn't seen it, the question of when power will return to the Republika Srpska area. They came to Croatia where they were offered to have free houses and free buildings. But just one sentence, please, we have to solve this problem. We can't accept as a state that there are over 1,000 empty apartments, and we're looking for money for others at the same time, because there's just no money left for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52499	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52500	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. We've been very good at talking about these problems over the past few years and about this matter. So we're true it's tried to solve this thing but because of some public, because I said here, I expressed some dissatisfaction with the previous government that probably invited you to this replica because the thing isn't finished until the end. We could have ended it, because in that matter we were going to remind 2004 when we made a correct agreement, a coalition agreement between HDZ then on the authorities and us who were representatives of minorities. Right? And then, among other things, we taxed on what we had to do, and then we started dealing with the problem. If we had started dealing with this problem five years earlier or before Racan, even if I didn't speak now, it doesn't matter, so we started dealing with it earlier today, the process would have ended. So that's what I'm saying. We did, we did, we did, and we didn't finish because we were late because we ran out of money, and there were some international funds that we could have made better withdrawals and revenues in this whole thing and helped all of us to feel less of this expenditure. So, I think that's what needs to be known.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52501	Thank you very much. First one notice, that after this debate over the application of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the report would work tomorrow morning at 9.30 and would continue with the 10th and 11th Points Report on the work of the Ombudsman for the children for 2012 and the 2012 report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, so please respect that, some representatives may have some other obligations, etc. Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate of 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when we discuss the Attorney-General's Report, in this case, we discuss human rights. And human rights are never a one-dimensional problem. It is multidimensionally dependent on which angle is observed and therefore complex. Today we have heard a lot from the general state of the Croatian society assessments of what is curent that society cares about what is not, although we are discussing reports for the past year, but here I hope that this has been useful for the Ombudsman. If she hasn't already, at least to the Croatian public. I think I speak on behalf of most colleagues and colleagues when I thank her for her patience for putting up with this stoically and some political debates. But before I go to the metrics, I'd like to look back on a few things. In fact, the D.A. knows this well from the Human Rights Committee, and I am often a critic of its public appearance, and I believe that the public defender should be much more in the media. In the media, too, and we read about reports about this debate that parliamentary deputies resent the occupier, or the attorney general, that it is not enough in the media. But I only took the data from 19th to this day, in conclusion with today's day, the attorney general, or the Attorney General's Office, issued 10 press releases. Including this means today on the occasion of the International Day of Combating Poverty. Which means if we count some averages every 7.5 days, one statement means every week. The other thing is that the editorial policies of some media don't pass it on, unfortunately. I also think that my colleague Kulusic mentioned a form of mobbing the resignation of employees during his sick leave. If that's what I'm talking about, because I'm talking about mobbing and I'm always talking about mobbing on the Human Rights Committee if that's really how we're being presented, then it's for every conviction. However, each case needs to be carefully considered and seen, means to respect all objective opportunities, or to see if this is the way our colleague exposed it to us. But let's move on to the theme measure. As far as the Attorney General's report is concerned, I would always point out what I always point out that very few of our citizens actually know what the role of the Ombudsman is. He says that repeating is the mother of knowledge and we simply have to repeat it from every public pay phone and every public opportunity we get. So, the attorney general is not an institution that can intervene or change, to alter a powerful verdict. Often, our citizens get the role of the attorney general and what the attorney general is doing completely wrong. I also welcome our institutions of specialised attorneys, which are colleagues and colleagues mentioned before, I think it is a feature of our society to especially protect certain layers of society. First of all, children I hold to the most vulnerable part of society, but then also persons with disabilities and, of course, gender equality to which we are all committed. I would also like to welcome that the current Ombudsman has specifically advocated the spread to regional offices. I see this as a very positive thing because many citizens are not physically and financially able to come to Zagreb and I am very glad that you have just chosen my native Osijek to start spreading. Finally, when we talk about the Report of the Ombudsman, I would also point out the need for education and I believe that civil education in schools but also civil education that educational workers perform and beyond that will bear fruit that the next generations of our citizens we raise for a responsible citizen will know the role of the institution of the Ombudsman and be of use accordingly. As for the phenomenon of discrimination, two of them are very worrying facts, some of them also mentioned a colleague Horvat. Namely, the largest number of discriminations is under the category of racial or ethnicity, skin colour, national origin. Given the recent Croatian history, it may not be as surprising as it is, but what is alarming is that the following three categories of discrimination mean gender, age and political or other belief together are not as numerous as this first category. So that tells us something about our society, which unfortunately is still burdened by some I would say to the consciences of the past. Also insufficient reporting of discrimination. So research has shown that 61% of citizens have not taken steps to protect their rights. So this tells us exactly what I was saying about the need to educate citizens about their rights when they are being violated and who they can address to protect these same rights. What is worrying is that this research also states that the reason some citizens did not address institutions is therefore to protect their rights is precisely a mistrust in these same institutions. So I believe that the attorney general, along with this House who named her, is also responsible for restoring our citizens' trust, restores trust in the institutions of this country but also points to the fact that she is a public defender, which is what we should be dealing with. And I can responsibly claim that the attorney general is indeed a person who is what they would say in the first line of defence of human rights, and that is what our citizens must know. As for the national preventive mechanism, the situation in the penitentiary, such as colleagues and noted to all institutions where people are deprived of liberty, is worrying. But again, I need to mention that this is not a problem that has been a problem since yesterday, that it is not a problem that has arisen in the last year or two, or ten, but is a problem that has existed for a long time. Unfortunately, the trend that exists indicates that the number of people who are deprived of freedom is likely to increase and will not decrease. And therefore, of course, the government should also address this segment of the problem in line with the possibilities. However, as I have said before for objective reasons, the situation in which we are both economical and any other problem needs to be approached studioically and objectively. I would refer to the prison in Osijek, so Osijek is the city from which we came where we had a case where in the summer of 2011, a prisoner reportedly died due to very high temperatures or impaired health conditions. Unfortunately, prison in Osijek was overloaded, over 150% of the capacity was used when the Office of the Public Attorneys was doing reconnaissances in that prison. It even happened that people were sleeping like I said in the chapels, in the halls, on the floors. This is particularly alarming when you need to deprive a person immediately of freedom because of family violence, so you need to physically separate a person from the outside world. However, what I would certainly like to commend and point out is that both the Office of the Attorney General and the Ombudsman found a whole series of measures that the prison administration is seeking to improve the conditions of the prisoners. Of course, they're far from beautiful, of course, and they may not be at the level we'd like them to, but in accordance with their possibilities, at least there is. So I'd certainly like to ask the Attorney General to keep an eye on this case, so I'm particularly interested in the Prison in Osijek to read it in this year's report as well. To conclude the debate, therefore human rights are one very complex subject, human rights are not unfortunately respecting the same heights that everyone here would like to believe to be, but what I can say is that we can be satisfied that we have made steps, that we are committed to respecting human rights and that human rights are protected. And that's why I'm here again thanking the attorney general, and I'm going to support all three reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52503	Thank you, too. We have replicas. The first replica, the respected representative, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52504	Thank you, Your Honor. So here is colleague Hajdukovic, you stated in his speech that Kulusic said about firing or mentioning the resignation of a public institution employee... while he was on sick leave, but I also have to say because of the prosecutor's staff that this is still a slightly more difficult case of a slightly different form of disease. Namely, this disease is being resolved by the Split County Court and the gentleman has been detained by the Department for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime of the County Court in Split. In addition, the decision of the same county court prohibits a man from accessing the premises of Krk National Park and also prohibits him from performing his activities. After that, unfortunately, the minister did not have anything else left to relieve him. And I had to bring this up because of the public, although I also agree with you that cases where mobing is happening or where it really happens that a man is fired while on sick leave that such cases should be investigated and that they should not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52505	Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52506	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague. You gave me an insight into a situation I didn't have. And if that's true and if those judgments exist you're domestic there I'm not from Slavonia, if those judgments exist then I really can't believe that a colleague in this House of High House can defend such a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52507	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52508	Thank you very much. Well, I have to get involved with colleague Hajdukovic, and you've had this other colleague from Dalmatia downtown, so he scored with his head, but he thinks he's done it. In argument, both you and your colleagues were not told whether the man was sick or not. Tell it here to the Croatian public if he was sick that all of this happened at the time or wasn't on sick leave. If he wasn't sick, that's another thing I don't know. That's what counterpart Kulusic said about the case. And as far as the prison in Osijek is concerned, I was going to say, it's interesting that the attorney general of all prisons in Croatia screening to say that he unannouncedly chose the Prison in Zagreb and Prison in Osijek, Pozega and there is still a prison in Pula, in Sibenik, and in Rijeka do not know the consequences of this screening in Osijek of this case which I have named clearly and loudly in Pula, so General Đura Brodarac and the news and others not to say alarmingly about the situation in Osijek about the congestion of the prison in Osijek even though I have heard here that the standard of our prisons is so real that this standard refers to the maximum conditions that can be achieved in some prisons. So there's a rock. So if that's from 2 to 5 it can be, 2 to 5 square meters per prisoner then in Croatia it's taken 5. And then we were re-tracted so that three of them might not be re-tracted. Although I was personally and was visiting in... So I saw that the prison in Osijek was really overcrowded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52509	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm a colleague because I'm not being directed, so in this case we've been talking about, about firing this employee of a public institution and fenced and when it comes to... As far as my colleague Kulusic is concerned, and when it comes to fellow Vidovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't want to be the one who judges or can be in the other but I've said my opinion so I can't believe if the facts are true that are here that one person can afford to defend someone like that. It's my personal opinion, whether we agree or not. As for the prison in Osijek, everyone draws water on their own mill, so I'm concerned about the prison in Osijek because I'm from Osijek. And I agree with you that he's been overtracted. They say that statistics are usually the exact sum of incorrect data and now if we take some standards higher, the fewer that are offered may look great on paper but here you have said yourself what it looks like in practice. That's what worries me, but we need to protect the dignity of those people who are deprived of freedom. No matter why, but they deserve human dignity, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52511	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mirela Holly. She's not in the hall, she's losing her right to speak on this subject. Next is Honourable representative Nadica Jelash, here are the honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52512	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's the report on the work of the attorney general we are discussing today is actually the latest report by former Ombudsman Jurica Malcic, who we must say, we must stress this in his eighth annual term set really high criteria for the functioning of the institution of the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament that protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies that have public authority. And it was probably one of the reasons if not the basic reason why the previous government did not support those reports, but it only took note of them. In my debate, I will concentrate on an area which has been dominated for years by the number of complaints received by citizens and which is absolutely targeted by the biggest dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens, of course it is about the judiciary. We talk about this issue regularly and a lot every year and it is just amazing that the judiciary is completely deaf to our dissatisfaction and that is even more important to the same dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens. Every year we repeat the same things without saying almost any results. We can really say dogs bark and caravans pass. In fact, the situation is growing from year to year, i.e. the number of complaints from citizens to justice from year to year. So in 2012 out of the total of 1849 complaints that arrived at the address of the occupier, even 416 of them were almost every fourth of them from that area. The main concern is the dissatisfaction with the length of court proceedings and the dissatisfaction with the outcome of court proceedings. The slowness of the Croatian judiciary has been assessed as legendary by many. Not to mention a number of complaints from the European Commission on this matter. The average length of civil litigation is 10 years and shouldn't be longer than three years. Data are even more dramatic, given that in a large number of cases it is a matter of work dispute and as we know, labour disputes should have priority in resolving. Unfortunately, in the Croatian way, it is very common for a judge to succeed only one hearing in three years instead of ending the case. It is not rare for disputes to be dragged for thirty years by the fact that in the judicial system there is actually no full record of these ancient court cases. In one word, Croatian citizens are really marathons in the race for justice with very often not actually reaching it. Therefore, the right to justice in Croatia is literally an impossible mission and actually sounds hypocritically that constitutional provision on the right of everyone to a fair trial within a reasonable time. The long-term length of court proceedings is one of the most important reasons why corruption in Croatian citizens is high second place in the judiciary. The only more corrupt than the judiciary in the opinion of Croatian citizens is unfortunately political parties and politicians. This huge ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, which is largely paid by citizens, is due to the outflows of the highest quality court personnel to a law firm that was skillfully invented in the 1990s at the time of conversion and privatisation. In recent years, there has been a trend in reducing the number of complaints on the length of proceedings while increasing the number of complaints over the lack of satisfaction with the outcome of court proceedings. Such a trend is the result of the fact that more and more citizens are benefiting from the legal possibility of exercising the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, through which they may also decide on a deadline for the completion of the proceedings but also on a cash compensation for infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period. In this regard, it should be said that Croatian citizens are actually very tolerated to do no state because the claim and the claim for compensation in Croatia only endures 1% of the total number of those who would have the right to do so. If all those who have conditions were sued, and these are all those whose lawsuits last for more than three years, then hundreds of thousands of cases would be truly devastating, financially devastating for the Croatian state. The requirements for exercising the right to trial within a reasonable period of time are a multiple problem, so I'll say two of those problems. First of all, because they represent a great additional burden for both the county courts and the Supreme Court, and especially for the Constitutional Court, because thousands of such cases of small value, which are covered by the Constitutional Court, actually have no meaning for the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, but only for the parties to the proceedings. But that is why the Constitutional Court is literally turning into 4 instance of trial in the Republic of Croatia, which is not good because the primary task of the Constitutional Court is not to judge but to protect constitutional order, so to control constitutionality and legality. The following consequences of court's trombones are huge financial costs from the title of compensation paid to citizens who have been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It's an average of $38 million a year. It's absurd that the state register is filled with citizens right now, so it turns out that through those benefits received, citizens are paying additionally for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. It's actually that truth in Croatian. The more inaccessible, so justice is more inaccessible, the more expensive it is. What is most absurd, however, is that so far because of the judgment being reached within a reasonable time frame in Croatia, it is not known better whether any of the judges in Croatia were in any way responsible for the non-judgment of judgment within a reasonable period of time, because of the delay in court proceedings. It would be very interesting to hear maybe the attorney general has that information right now. In this regard, I remind myself of the suggestions that the Ombudsman made for this problem over the past years. There's no such thing this year, so there's no suggestion. The attorney's probably tired of repeating. So he said that an effective and lasting solution to the problem is the excessively long duration of judicial proceedings in the organisational, personnel and material strengthening of the judicial administration, especially the Supreme Court. Strengthening the judicial administration and the services of monitoring, evaluation and control of judges according to the experiences of many countries has proved far more effective than increasing the number of judges. Of course, the need for greater investment in the supervision of judges also points out these enormous amounts that I spoke of earlier, which are paid to Croatian citizens from the state budget for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52513	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52514	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was just about to talk about this trial within a reasonable period of time or not a reasonable trial and look back at the financial effect of it. But Mrs. Jelash continued her speech about and said it. I would just like to repeat that the Croatian state and Croatian citizens are paying dearly for this trial within an unreasonable period and that people have also addressed the European Court of Human Rights for this and received compensation for it. These fees, together with fees for trial in dislocated places, due to the overloading of courts in the places of the actors' residence, and because of the irregular decisions of our courts and people complained again in Strasbourg, ranged up to 10m euros a year. 10 million euros or 75 million kuna, these three items. So it's all paid by taxpayers and that's what's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52515	Thank you, too. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52516	Well, here we go again. Therefore, it is absurd that there are citizens, Croatian citizens are paying funds into the state budget, and then the state budget must pay or pay compensation to citizens because the courts do not judge. It's really absurd that as I said what justice is, or the right to be inaccessible, it's actually more expensive, it's beyond citizens, that citizens pay more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52517	And the Parliament makes laws. That's all wrong. Let's move on. Honorable representative Joseph Kregar and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52518	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The report should be discussed and therefore I will begin to think that the report is very well done, that it is true, that it is focused on the selected and most important problems, that it concerns others not perhaps priority but important things. And that it is balanced in terms of the overall assessment of the situation and the changes that exist. Something that has been slightly forgotten in the debate, I thank the predecessor for pointing out, is primarily similar to the previous reports of the attorney general. I think that's a good thing, though it points to the seriousness of those phenomena that are rightly referred to. I therefore believe that it is necessary to begin immediately and to commend the former behavioural officer, Mr Jurica Malcic, who has set not only standards and content of such reports but also in some way set a tone of reporting on difficulties. Of course there's one problem or lack. If someone deals only with complaints, if they only deal with the black side of life, they will get the impression that nothing else exists. But it doesn't feel that much in this report. The problems are highlighted and acknowledged that there are both the possibilities and needs of their solutions. That's why I'm going to start with what's most frequently pointed out here, and the predecessor pointed out the problem of the judiciary. What's the initial thing you can't escape from is the fact that trust is very hard to gain and very easy to lose, which is not understood by many who work in the judiciary. Subjectively thinking that they do their best, many of them do, that they are professional and dedicated to their work. They do not see themselves as the eyes of their citizens who do not have a good opinion or not, for this beginning is irrelevant. But it is important for another fact, which is that we have adopted a whole series of measures, laws and changes that should speed up procedures, reduce burdens and restore one piece of trust in the judiciary over the past year. We cannot replace in some way their self-awareness and their desire to restore that trust. But I will remind you that we have taken steps to speed up the process, that the Supreme Court takes care of the late cases, that they are subject to special records and that they are also assessed by the judges' success. That we have introduced measures and our predecessors to say which help professionalism, professional education and the choice of judges according to their abilities and not as it once was, exactly, and not according to their omen, relationships or political belongings. So, exactly, we need to remember these criticisms but also the fact that we have made one significant shift in the fact that the judiciary recognises this problem as our common problem. The amendment of the Law on Courts is, for example, one such step that contributes to mutual understanding of the problem. Judges will always complain about the lack of personnel, resources, slow and bad laws or so, but we must pass on to them what we see is reality and these are objections and lack of trust. However, I would like to highlight some more things about this report that are also part of the recognition of reality. As with the judiciary, one who deals with the judiciary often ignores some emotional, psychologically important things. So in some other things, we tend to forget that there are problems we haven't solved. Here was the problem of returning to war damaged areas, concerning apartments and destroyed buildings. I would like to remind you that it has already tried to regulate itself in the past, in the past governments. For 10 years it has been going on and under strong pressure even abroad, and especially social problems, it has been done a lot. It was not correct to forget that the law which regulated the damages related to this House is the law on liability for damage caused by members of the Croatian Army and the regular forces during the Homeland War. So this conversation about what was attributed to the defenders is... He no longer has any meaning at this time and is unnecessary and only one political disqualification. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the important thing is that we in Croatia have hundreds or thousands of people living in extremely uncertain conditions. The report also highlights the status of residents in nationalised apartments and owners of nationalised apartments. They share the same problem that has been buried under the carpet for years and hasn't been solved. All those institutions serving the protection of rights have given their own words but the problem has not been solved. And then the weight and responsibility and the number of cases falls largely on the person and institution of the attorney general. What I would like and I think that in the debate I was encouraged to do so is really to say that perhaps it was not the best understanding of the constitutional position of the attorney general. It's not an additional judicial or investigative institution, it's not a parallel police or an investigative tool. The D.A. doesn't have the authority to do that, but she's not entirely powerless. It should be encouraged but not only by her, we have the instruments to do so, to encourage the media that, as with some other countries, there is a guaranteed space in the media to state its position or case. It's nice to look at the newspaper in Sweden or Austria and see that on the other page of the newspaper every 7 days the ombudsman's ombudsman writes about a topic. He does not write because he likes it so much but because he deals with these problems he wants to share with the public. We have public television and why not be a show like we have about religious communities, about defenders, why not be the one that would allow the attorney general, the lawyer to express his position and warn the public, that's much better and more objective than what a journalist can say about the same thing that has no insight into the documents or can give a metric assessment. In the end, I'd just like to mention and commend. Not only a report in content and style but also in the fact that a certain new change and activity is felt in the reorganisation and operation of the Ombudsman. I wouldn't rewrite it to your high motivation but to the fact that it changes attitude towards that institution. There have been all sorts of speculations here for most and minorities but we all seem to be on the same side or we should be on the same side when it comes to human rights. That's why my support is for both the report and the action.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52519	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let's get a set of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52520	Thank you very much, President. When you spoke about justice, you mentioned how difficult it was to gain trust and how easy it was to lose it, and we all witnessed it. It's nothing new when it comes to this part. However, you said that, in some ways, this House has contributed to the fact that, if I am not mistaken, you mentioned a number of laws have been passed over a period of one year. But by passing these many laws, we've actually made them the biggest problem, these people who work in the judiciary. And most often it's precisely because I don't say the chaotic situation that was created because of the hasty adoption of many laws that are probably neither mutually, nor likely, but practice has proved that in many cases they are not even harmonised. So to bring down this possible trust in justice or destruction, even the reputation of the judiciary is well-responsibly borne by this House, as well as by the Government. The government in that part of what mass of these laws went into emergency procedures. You know better than I do, but I doubt it's out there in some countries that we take as an example that there's a practice that laws are passed so massively in an emergency procedure, that there's been discussions for months or even years. Even for years on some laws, about some strategic things, about something that's a national issue. The debates last even for years. We, however, on a shortcut a hundred and something, in fact in the year you said 17 laws in that year. I think it was more detachment than helping the defense's reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52521	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52522	If I could look back on just one part of your exposure, I would very much agree, and that's a fact that we all feel about one legislative optimism, flood, tide of law, and we don't see much sense in that. There are ideas to stop and not to pass laws. But I'm sorry, no, it's not your idea. But I heard. What to say, however, concerns three things. First of all, for those laws and for you, we voted. We accepted them. Secondly, their arguments were quite precise and clear. Their purpose explained by speeding up and helping actions, and that is what is happening. The rationalisation of criminal and civil proceedings has absolutely accelerated the proceedings. And of course it's not easy for judges or lawyers to manage in the abundance of new laws, to change the system. Let's just say criminal proceedings are an example. But we can't wait for that breakthrough and these changes have accelerated adaptation. The third part of these legal texts concerns the technical improvement and improvement of what we all advocate, which is the independence and efficiency of the judiciary. When we discussed it, we did not doubt it, so I think it is not best to say the laws will spoil the whole thing, just point to confusion, but to accept that in times like these and many of the laws that we have brought under pressure from both the public and the international community we have not been able to avoid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52523	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52524	Dear colleague Kregar, I am also, my replica refers to that chapter of yours when you spoke of the judiciary. You, like before, colleagues and colleagues, have highlighted the problem of the judiciary. Let's say the length of the dispute that's been on average for us for 10 years. However, if in a country, justice is ruled by chaos, and if a court dispute is conducted for 10 years, the average rule of law should be as well, and the three most years should be conducted then social intervention and political intervention should be required not in disputes. It's called judicial reform. When members of the Kukuriku coalition were in opposition, they spoke about judicial reform. The reform of the judiciary did not pass a set of laws, 17 laws in a year and we have said, we have acquired the preconditions for better functioning of the judiciary. The justice system in Croatia is not functioning. The negative selection that took place in the 1990s has done so well, she took a huge toll in Croatia. And today the consequences are still felt. At that time, several generations and young people who had no opportunity were chosen for political likeness and the question was how far away, how many years these consequences would feel. If it is impossible to do this with some natural selection then some social intervention should be taken, and it is known how it is done – by changing the essence of the choice of judges, the way it progresses and how it is wastes from that judicial society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52525	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52526	I suppose my duty to defend justice is simply because I'm trying to balance criticism and defense. But they're not here to defend themselves and make another point. That's why we predicted in the Court Act that we would discuss it once a year in front of him and with him, with a report of justice with the President of the Supreme Court. In this second one, what you said about the justice reform strategy, we brought that strategy, the reform of the judiciary, it seems to me even that your party voted for it. And that's one of the key, actually a key document based on all these other measures. But even in these other measures, you may notice a lack of radicality, but I fear radicalism in such measures. The examples of Hugo Chavez or Viktor Orban in solving the problems of the judiciary are not quite sure they are good for Croatia. After all, what you point to is one of the key shortcomings in the capacity and capacity of the judiciary to be effective is the fact that cleanups were carried out. A new cleaner wouldn't do us any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52527	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52528	Thank you very much. Comrade Kregar, you know if the court lasts for 10 years then lawyers write a lot of submissions, and then rushes and all the other acts that each cost 500 kuna. You understand me well what I mean. But well, it was 500 years ago, now it's 1,000. But I didn't want to talk about it. I don't suspect anyone or burden anyone. You said here that there was a Law on the Reconstruction of Objects created by the Croatian Army in the Homeland War. ... That's how it is, that the damage that occurred in the Homeland War. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In this regard, however, this name does not say, the Law on deliberate damage and intentional damage by the Croatian military. Which is an important difference compared to some other interpretation where it's trying here,...... Yes, yes, it's trying to impute here, so total damage to the Croatian military. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And unlike the fact that the town of Vukovar's treasured camel for hiroshima was... who did that damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52529	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52530	One of the things that can really, at first sight, cause repulsion and criticism is the fact that justice is expensive. But we have come here in a situation where many people are precisely because justice is not expensive used in a court of law to try even when they have no right to gain and to achieve it. It creates a lot of pressure on the judiciary, not only to help lawyers and their tariffs but to defuse the judiciary as a whole. That is why changes should probably be encouraged and we will get them, it seems to me in the form of a proposal that would regulate it. And as far as the law itself is concerned, it was a law that delayed the damage caused by members of the Croatian Army, regular forces involving guilt, not just a minor fact of damage. But I'm saying that, and I insisted, it's nothing else here but a discussion of the cases that ended. Because this is Mr. Horvat. He's no longer explained what this is about. And I think that should end it. But don't politicize how it was here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52531	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ana Komaraić Devčić and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52532	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Kregar, you actually encouraged me in the part where you talked about examples from our neighboring countries about how much attention the civil defenders have in some of our neighbouring countries. And your idea of maybe and what I absolutely support wouldn't be bad at all if our Croatian television had one such show. I'm just adding that that's not only for the attorney general, but also for the child's attorney, the lawyer for people with disabilities, and that our media for the truth should finally take responsibility. Our media deals with Turkish soap opera, our media deals with affairs, our media deals with scandals, and this is an example provided by our media to our young. So our youngsters can't read about anything positive, about something beautiful, something that someone has done in life than they always read and look exclusively negative, which would be better said. And that's why I support this idea of yours for the truth, and I think maybe this High House could affect it. Because if the budget is passed, say, all day on Croatian radio, then maybe a report from our attorneys can be transmitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52533	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52534	Well, I share with you my colleague, Kregar, the support you give to the attorney general, but also to former occupier, Mr. Malcic, whom I believe will also be his successor, indeed, as many here have called moral verticals in Croatian society. But there's been enough here and you've talked about it yourself so there could be a television show that would propagate, so what it's doing and explain to the people that the attorney general provides, so that people know who to turn to, what the possibility of action is. All this must have been happening while some overemphasised that public exposure. We've had in the past 10 years and those who have been too exposed and have not been very concerned with what they were supposed to do. So it's hard for us to always find one balance of visibility and real worries. But with us so far, the action has shown what is certainly what you said that and perhaps it should be more visible that the real concern is always very, very self-secret and quiet. As you can see here, you also have a representative, although it is not correct to say it against each other, it is not said in any parliament, but once and for all, that story ends. Many talk about how other colleagues don't work, so when the lights of the reflectors and transmissions go out, then the first ones are gone. It's incorrect, and it needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52535	Thank you very much. I'm calling the esteemed representative of Damir Cain for, he's gone. Okay. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. I call upon the honourable representative Melita Mulic, 10 minutes for her debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52536	I would like to thank the esteemed president, the esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. In my personal discussion, I'll look back on just one report that I haven't talked about so far. It's a report on the occurrences of discrimination because I think it's my duty and my responsibility to talk about it. In fact, if you look at the report, and the report clearly states that unfortunately there are still insufficient number of complaints as to how much discrimination is present in accordance with the Discrimination Act and that there are very few violations and criminal charges taking place under this law. And still also the Attorney General's Office received 202 applications, and the Office of the Public Attorney for Gender Equality 317. 200 of these were filed by women because of gender discrimination. The basic and first discrimination is the one by ethnicity. Since we do not have members of other races in the Republic of Croatia. The report clearly states that this is a matter of national discrimination, which actually means that minorities are primarily discriminated against, and then women and then other discriminations by age, by property status, by social status, by working relations and others. What does that mean in translation? This translation means that if you are a woman, if you are a Serbian or a Roma woman, if you live in a field of special state care and if you are over 50 years old, you almost have no chance. That's what reality means. And what is perception and what are the attitudes? I think it is a very alarming survey conducted by the Office of the Public Attorney's Office but there are other researches such as the state of human rights submitted by NGOs, i.e. the specific House of Human Rights or by the Serbian Democratic Forum in collaboration with the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. In fact, 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia consider discrimination to be present no less than one quarter in their own skin. But at least one quarter of them still find it unacceptable for their son - in - law or daughter - in - law to be members of some of the national minorities. A third of them would feel uncomfortable knowing that the neighbor is a member of a homosexual orientation. Over 50% of them think asylum seekers shouldn't be given a job. My colleagues and colleagues, I personally think that as long as we think it's normal to tolerate and not raise our voice, that in Kutina where the reception center is, or accommodation for foreigners, it may happen that in the bar the waitress won't serve coffee because the owner doesn't give it to asylum seekers, as long as it's normal for one of our fellow MPs and former mayors to publicly express that it is unacceptable for his son-in-law to be a Serb, as long as the public television shows a central diary with an opening call and an announcement in the British royal family to be male first, as long as it's said by the distinguished colleagues to discuss a single strategy or a law with joy as if a male diet was born, as long as we are talking about the terror of the minority above most, as long as we call for the defence of only one right completely neglecting or the rights of others until as many as most of us are silently less alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52537	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It's the honorary representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52538	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we have heard many times today is that in fact many acts of discrimination in Croatia remain undeclared. And as far as being processed, it is clear that the effectiveness of sanctions depends on the speed and certainty of its expression rather than the weight. So we'd all like to, and that's what my colleagues were talking about before me to make it as soon as possible, to be effective, and not just to see how hard it's going to be, in the end, whether we're talking about financial amounts or something else. However, discrimination is hard to prove, and discrimination is even more difficult to identify. Discrimination is very little to learn. If we want, we can look at what it looks like in primary or secondary schools, or what our children are learning. That's what they learn at least without me saying it in college or somewhere else. What is best learned and what we all know is what we have learned or we will say, experiencedly learned in the family itself. From the family, therefore, we also have experience of how we will react as individuals to discrimination, or to realize that it is not necessary or not to get to the point where we physically hurt someone and realize that it is actually discrimination. There's been a lot of talk here about the report itself, so I'm not going to talk about it. I think it's quite detailed, that what's already been typed can be said. But equally from year to year we repeat two things, which is that the most present discrimination is sexual and ethnic. When I mention sexual discrimination, then I'll be very specific. I took out a whole series of examples that appeared in Croatia about discrimination and, among other things, discrimination against women through the past but let me have this one in 2013 mirrored through the release of women of adulthood as well as those of women who remained pregnant. Unfortunately, we all know that today is difficult to look forward to a new job, and according to the D.A. five years ago on the labour market, it could have been talked about the age limit between 45 and 50 years ago, and in today’s case, it came down to 40 years ago. Let us remind ourselves of all the workers of Kamensky, they said for one television show that looking for a job they experienced insults such as referring to their grandmothers and insulting the words that they might even be ashamed to come and ask for a job, how they are not really ashamed to come there, there are women who are 20 who are also looking for a job. All these examples I trust are familiar. Or discrimination against mature women also shows an example of an entrepreneur who had to keep her pregnancy even out of bed and worked on a project she was in charge of. So since she made the mistake of even two months, she lost her reception. It's interesting and an example in particular that I think our colleagues will listen to and that is that a highly qualified man couldn't get a job, right, couldn't even get a conversation for the first job until he had a little better look at his resume and actually realized that his name could be a woman. At that moment of course after he had added the gentleman's name, he received a call within a month. My colleague's got something, something to tell me and, and he's become a minister, is he? Okay. According to the latest research, and I believe that this research will be like this next year, and it was last year and three years earlier, women are a male education. However, this does not mean that women are also well paid for their work. Every year we say the same thing. If you look at the phonograms of our debates, I believe we haven't taken much of a step. That we haven't made some civilization step and that's the truth, actually. If it's true that we can't be proud of the numbers, that we can't say that we've reduced discrimination, we can say that we've regulated that area legally, but that we've made some special progress, we have to admit that we haven't. As far as business questions go, they remain the same, do you think they have children? When do you plan on having kids? When do you plan on being pregnant? And it's a good thing they don't ask you if you have a glass ball so we can look at it together and see if it doesn't get sick in the next year. So, I think the questions, I'll be free to say more and more mean when it comes to women and that women are actually such issues or that kind of discrimination are still very little reported. Whether out of fear that the employer won't take them eventually, whether or not another employer will know it, but the fact is that women and men probably don't report discrimination. There are 20 types of discrimination, so if you just read them out, maybe each of us could find ourselves in some kind of discrimination. When I mentioned more educated women than men, of course these are relevant indicators, with companies 6% of women among top managers, 27% of them as management members at the top of companies, and according to estimates are paid 15 to 20% less than men. Some actually made a convenient suggestion, given that we introduced quotas, you know, about women's representation, we all know what I'm talking about and what campaigns they were, maybe to introduce quotas in businesses. I think it's going to be very difficult if it's private companies and unfortunately the other companies we know in what state they're in. Women are also organized on the Internet, so they were organised not to conspired against men, there is a group of women in Adria, and they did an interesting survey this year, which included over 300 women. The topic was the impact of pregnancy and maternity leave on the career. So the results were very interesting. Every other woman experienced a negative effect of pregnancy and maternity leave on her career. As many as 51 women from the study experienced a negative impact, 43% of women were fired while pregnant or after returning from maternity leave, 34% were demoted after publishing pregnancy, etc., not to mention. How many women are there in the government? If we're talking about women in politics. And there aren't many of us here. And when I mentioned politics, women at local level were chosen equally in the counties, cities and municipalities in this year's local elections by as many as 7% of women and only 4% in Dalmatia. Trends in developed countries are of course that significantly more women participate locally, we have tried to even ourselves there, we will see. So, basically 40% of women know that we will probably, or those who decide that when it comes to that time, and that will be next year, we and everyone will get even. Finally, this Saturday, the Zora Association in Međimurje County invites you to an action called ironing, so this is an invitation to all who will eventually be in Čakovec on Saturday, especially men, and needles are prepared, you can take your shirts and come iron your shirt to iron out equality. I don't know how many colleagues have ironed their shirts this week, but I mean, here they raise their hands, you're all invited, I'd like you to come, so iron your shirts in Chakovec and show us how even we really are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52539	We buy shirts that don't need ironing. Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52540	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable counsellors, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Let's be affirmative, discrimination involves promoting social cohesion, intercultural dialogue, evaluation of diversity and equality, including of course gender equality, developing knowledge, personal and social skills, understanding that reduces conflict, respect and understanding of differences, mutual respect for human dignity and common values, encouraging dialogue, and promoting non-violence in solving problems and disputes. The concept of competence is the quality of action that includes knowledge, skills, values and attitudes, personality traits, motivations and patterns of behaviour which an individual has and which, if necessary, triggers to solve a problem or task. Now, are we competent to live without discrimination, raising children for such competence, for interpersonal competence? Do we raise young people so that they can participate effectively and constructively in social life and solve problems when needed? Do we show our own example today, here in the Croatian Parliament tonight the ability to communicate constructively in various social situations, do we accept other people's views and behaviours, if we promote awareness of individual and collective responsibility? Are we alone able to create trust and empathy for other individuals, show interest in others and respect for them, are we ready to overcome stereotypes and prejudices and achieve compromises? Our children must be prepared to respect the values and privacy of others with the willingness to respond to antisocial behaviour, they must accept the concept of human rights and equality as the basis for solidarity and accountability. They must not have alternatives to non-accepting equality between men and women, they must respect and understand diversity and valuable systems, e.g. religious, ethnic or other and critically accept the information published by the mass media that we were just talking about. It's the only way to prevent discrimination. The school is just the right place, continuing on a colleague before me who spoke about family, for the earliest understanding and awareness of the dignity of a person, human rights and freedom within the class, school and local community, to promote equality in relation to age, sex, ethnic, racial and other differences, to combat humiliating and unfair behaviour, to adopt general rules and legal norms as instruments of protection of students' rights, to combat social exclusion as well as the ultimate goal of abolishing discrimination. At school age, students and students perceive the concepts but at the same time with the concepts and values of freedom, justice, equality, justice, the problem of prejudice and discrimination, poverty and hunger, etnocentrism, racism, sexism. I therefore propose to the attorney general to recommend in the next report how it is necessary to carry out systematic education on human rights at all levels of education with an emphasis on the phenomenon of discrimination that, with the support of the experimental conduct of civic education, all students in Croatia will learn and learn how unacceptable all forms of discrimination, ranging from gender to ethnic and racial, and to accept children and people regardless of their religious, material or any other status, will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52541	Thank you very much. He's got a replica of his colleague Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52542	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor's Attorney General. Comrade Spoljar, I must honestly say I've heard a lot about discrimination at all today and I must ask one question honestly. When we talk about discrimination so much, don't you think that Croatian defenders, when I say Croatian defenders, are really thinking about people who have been sincerely and emotionally defending this country, I don't mean any false defenders because there is no false defender. Either there are defenders or there are others who are, we know what they're... calling. Don't you think that these people who are mostly self-secret and who wanted to remain self-absorbed, are discriminated against because their participation, their name and name were announced against their will, so the data on participation and war through a legal act, with the reason that this strengthens the dignity of the Homeland War, that this raises their honor and I don't know what. Don't you think it's discrimination and that it's like thanking them for everything they've done for this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52543	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52544	Thank you very much. My colleague, in this yours I would really say such a magnificent tract in the fight against discrimination of any form you mentioned at the beginning of your debate social cohesion. In fact, social cohesion includes including the inclusion of all those we know about, about groups that are being talked about here with the possibility of discrimination. You asked if you were ready, we are for raising children and for attitudes, so we are, we are ready. At the end of the day, however, we ourselves are here as Parliamentarians asking if we are ready for the lawyer's report for people with disabilities because of this debate that we were expecting to postpone tomorrow and not give priority to a lawyer who is also the first person with disabilities to speak and defend his report as the first and only then stayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52545	The answer to the replica of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52546	If I have understood the President, or Vice-President of the Assembly at my own request, the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. Her point has been postponed for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52547	I don't know what the problem is. I think the President of the Parliament has announced. Mrs. Slonjšak has been here since noon. You know she could hardly spend a few more hours at this hour. And in agreement with her, her point will go tomorrow morning when she's rested too. I don't think that's gonna be any problem, that I don't even know what the problem is. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52548	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. So here's what I'm saying about human rights, that's what I'm saying. on the 2012 Ombudsman’s report. It's my feeling, it's my impression that human rights are in practice at the end of the '80s, in practice I say. Maybe I'm wrong. In theory we have no problem, this legal forest does not exist a right we do not have, we cannot even remember it because if we could remember it we would probably get some legal proposal. It's all standardized very detailed. However, we have a problem with practice. That we have a difference. At the end of the 1980s, the main moderator in those rights was the militia, you remember the national militia. They were also public, as public defenders were in the municipalities if I remember correctly and the national militia moderated the other part, the other form of law. That's right. Today we've got more modern, today we've got an attorney general, we've got a lawyer. It's already progress and we're talking about human rights. Personally, I think it's a fundamental human right to have the right to good authority. Because if you've got good authority, then the attorney general doesn't have much to do. I think it's logical, as my colleague Stazic says, and it would be good if that were the case. Unfortunately, however, these Croatian citizens have not achieved this right, they have exercised the right to a poor government that has desolated their pockets for the past two years, made the rich rich rich richer and poorer. And, of course, a large number of cases have appeared that the occupier is accordingly to be resolved. And since this is the 2012 report, and our attorney's office from 2013 is certainly not in this respect grateful. It means defending something someone else did. But let's remember how to choose. Many human rights have already been violated, many human rights, remember. It wasn't a long time ago, so that was only a few months ago. First it was the first competition, so 8 candidates arrived, and a colleague of the coat of arms found none to be recognizable at all. You remember, you forgot that. But then the second competition, and then the coat of arms, managed to determine that there are candidates who are recognizable So I'm talking about the report. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: A colleague is not a lawyer's choice, but a report. Please!]] Well, the attorney general is part of the report. And when we came to the election process, we in opposition had no fundamental right at all to propose a candidate for the attorney general. It's a fundamental human right that we can suggest a candidate. We had no right to do so, but in a great struggle we had to leave as a whole opposition from this assembly. And we forgot that. I don't forget. And then it joined a vote in which the ruling coalition voted itself, counted itself, published itself, and found that the current lawyer received 82 votes out of 84. Someone in that coalition misrounded, so there was one ballot invalid, and someone circled that other candidate, and that was the way our democratic human rights were realized to choose a man who should take care of our rights. Although we couldn't agree with that, unfortunately, that's what happened. There were later stories that even the occupier had not had enough training if I followed it well, that there was not enough training in the profession, legal profession, which means it took 15 years, but it did, too. But what can we do? Talk about human rights again. Let's just say I have as a citizen the right to objective information. What, though, is being served? It's being served quite differently. Some processed, tailored information at the will of the ruling majority. And that's what we witness every day in all the media. You remember in 2012 and attack on distinguished journalist Karolin Vidovic Krist. Elimination of her show "Figure of Croatia" which dealt with exactly what the little man is saying and this report is related between our homeland and the diaspora, with all people's problems. No one alive, and especially the public defender didn't stand up for that distinguished journalist at the time. He got fired for free speech. She was fired in Croatia, and in England the Best Journalist of the Year award. It's our reality, we can't run from it. That's true. And the attorney general was supposed to stand in the defense of that journalist. Unfortunately, he didn't want to. I don't know if Mrs. Attorney General, Mrs. Laura Vidovic could have protected Karolina Vidovic, was that possible? We have other rights, we have the right to cheaper electricity. Here's today we hear more expensive again. First of all, something cheaper, but today again, by the government's decision he collects. We have the right to work, the human right to work. Unfortunately, today 334 thousand and 500, that's 31.10 last year, so 14 days before we reached the same number of unemployed. What rights do these people have in the first place? I've read this report, and I've pulled out this right human right to pay for the communal contribution. So I was surprised that this former staff attorney was on the page. The 40th suggests one party not to pay the same. to ask for it to the City of Zagreb since it was until '90. In the years, she paid only the same municipal contribution to the legalisation process of the illegally built facility for forgiveness. So is that possible? Yeah, because someone's up to the '90s. he paid only a contribution and the Ombudsman instructed him to ask for his height of communal contribution. And the laws are very clear and unequivocal. There are indeed these human rights that could be talked about a lot, but I have a feeling today from this debate that it is actually a public defender Pedro who should hang for all the failures of this government. Because today it was her fault that I managed to follow up all day for farms and milk and VAT and deficits and infrastructure and programmes and cancellations and inefficient state administration, for everyone. We've all looked at the attorney general and said what's bothering us, what we know and mostly addressed to her address all these complaints, and the truth should be different. And it would be good, and I asked you to have more courage and more public advances than it was when you stepped forward to the Parliament's announced initiative that it would disable the referendum "In the name of the family" so when you did your own statement and approach in some way maybe, maybe I shouldn't believe it, but perhaps warn you that it's not moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52549	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52550	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, you said in your statement that citizens have the right to good authority. I would be free to correct you, citizens have the right to power which they have chosen in a democratic and fair process in which the right to vote and the right to a fair count of votes is allowed. This last fair count of votes is, in some ways, reached only the last 10 years as well as the correct lists of citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have the legal right to vote, and we know very well that in some previous years in all the locations where the elections were held was not quite so. You spoke, alluding to good authority, about the government back in the last two years, I guess, trying to get a message to the wider Croatian public that it was a great one. So the great leader was caught by helicopters on Austrian roads as he fled the justice of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Boric, for God's sake! Well, I don't have to remind you of the same thing every time, and obviously I do. You were talking about eliminating one of the journalists' shows in Croatian media as a man who is truly convinced of the Democrats disagreed with these principles, I don't know the details of the case and I'm leaving the possibility that you might have been right. But I will remind you that the removal of the shows as a kind of censorship on Croatian television and in Croatian media began long ago in your era as your political patent, so I will mention the name of Mr. Denis Latina and Latina, which was abolished because it opened up unpleasant topics and brought in unpleasant guests and did not use scissors too much at the installation. And you finally told the public defender that she was brought here today to be Pedro because she had a lot of it imputed to her. She was imputed by this auditorium in the House, which points to the seriousness and level of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52551	Thank you very much. Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52552	Thank you very much. So, colleague Baranovic, I don't know where your boss is, ex-boss? Please be careful when you say something like that. I get the feeling he's in the spa, say, not at all where he is. But well, that's my feeling. It's that subjective feeling. To say that only the last elections are fair, only in the last 10 years for me is one bad finding that sheds light on 20 years of this country. But again, it's the right of an individual to say that sometimes it wasn't counted properly, that everything was always something in the service of something. Well, it's also the law of these authorities that you're part of to say that this is just as bad and that she took all the bad actions from the former who left. Because then the logic of things is that you'll be gone very soon. And you've been doing this for two years to justify some kind of ex-government move. Well, you weren't chosen by the citizens to be just as bad as the former government, if that's the case. They chose you because you said you'd look better, that you'd change, that you'd make it better, but you keep saying we're just as bad as they are here and we have the right to do the same bad thing. That's what I can conclude, then, that it looks like it's over. That power if it was so she was in democratic elections according to the lists as you said, the arranged lists of voters have been removed. And I don't know why you of that term don't keep calling for the former power and its actions, so it's normal for you to do the same, or you need to do it in a negative way. Don't let people understand that, and no matter what you say, you'll have to leave sooner or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52553	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52554	Thank you very much. In your first sentence, you said that the job for the attorney general or for the citizens is the right to good authority. We know how it comes to power and how it comes to power, choices, elections, civil elections, so I'd ask who chose this power. But there is something else, so this power came from the elections of citizens who told the Kukurik coalition and essentially against the former government. There's always a vote in this country against actually getting some new power. But it does not deny the right of this authority to be better clear and that the attorney general has as little to do as possible. When you mentioned a journalist whose last name is the same as the attorney general and she was the editor of the picture of Croatia then she was really a good parallel and the removal of Latina, so it actually turns out we chose you or elected these now in power to be equal to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52555	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52556	My colleague Grubisic, when I spoke of better authority, she was clearly structured in this report. There are a lot of chapters, you've got 250 remarks somewhere, you've only got one or two. Where you have one or two smart people can conclude that there may not be so many problems. We can't conclude that all of us are talking to the attorney general when we feel that something in some of our administrative procedures is not right. But if we see that there are 250 items somewhere, such as the part that is talking about legalising illegal objects or the work of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, then it's clear that the Impput to the Ombudsman is given to go public and say, please change what bothers people to solve this problem. We don't need them on one subject, but where we have 250, 300 we have these areas, not many, but there are. Well, that suggests that that power would be better for me, and if the problem is solved next year, then you no longer have 200 of those complaints, you'll have maybe 5, 6 and we've all made progress. I think it's the job of an attorney general and he can't keep his mouth shut, he has to say what he sees.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52557	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52558	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have rightly mentioned this case, Mrs. Karoline Kristo Vidovic, but you did not go into the depths of the case. Why was it necessary for the public defender to raise his voice? First of all, because it is about the cancellation that occurred or the termination of the public television show, which should represent all plurality of Croatian society. So it should also represent the right of the majority, and in Croatia most citizens are declared Catholic, so the right of those people who have their faith and who have their representatives on television to hear that someone defends their position. Because otherwise we come up with a paradox that my colleague Furio Radin was talking about. I think he rightly pointed it out here, which is that most in Croatia are not, in fact, the majority of them, but minorities as they did in the South African Republic in apartheid. That's true. In the apartheid in South Africa, you had a minority of white people, and you had most of the black population, and they were disfigured. Today in Croatia, in certain cases, we can say that we are in apartheid that most have no right to hear her attitude on public television. It is this particular case that leads to this current case of Mrs. Marine Pavicic. I'm asking you, Madam Public Attorney, indeed, to ask for the real reasons of the director of HTV, which is why he fired that lady. We don't know that in public. These texts that came out on the portals and published by the Croatian Journalist Society say it is a disastrous approach. If that's true, then that man should be fired immediately. It should simply be replaced immediately if what the portals say is true, that she was fired just because she told the truth, because she wanted to testify to the truth. If that's true, then it's disastrous for Croatian public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52559	And now we continue the debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek. And I'm sorry, the answer to the line by Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52560	My colleague Matušić, I mentioned this because it has not been in the 2012 report and this is the best example of how I say in practice respecting human rights in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I said it reminded me of practice at the end of the '80s. And that lady and I can get along or disagree. Then at one point she was banned from work, so she got it, her mission was canceled. And when a cardinal, Cardinal Bozanic clearly says out there that it is a pure violation of human rights and freedom of speech and the public around it is gathering and giving support to the journalist. And even those who lead this cathedral of our spirit, as we keep saying, they can't accept at all that the citizens are behind it and that they want this show and that journalist, that there are more important interests, different interests, the interests of the party or the interests of some lobbys, that the truth isn't known, that the truth isn't spoken, then we come to this situation that we've all been violated by rights, the whole regiment. Everyone, because it's the right thing to do, the human right to have objective information. But I'm telling you, we've got different behaviors in all things, and that's what we're talking about. Because if someone kills a dog in Ban Jelačić Square today, they'll all get up around it, and five kilometers away, 30 centimeters underground, we have victims, young people, 18-year-olds, no one cares. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52561	Comrade Drazenko Pandek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52562	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The public defender's report is usually exhaustive and well-conceived in most parts. In the absence of time, we cannot clearly carry out a thorough analysis of the report, so I will look at the parts that I consider should be put more emphasis. In the first part of the report, in relation to the observations relating to free legal aid, it is pointed out that citizens' access to help is too complex and restrictive and that the legal assistance system needs to be improved. Here is my pleasure to conclude that we have recently adopted a new Law on Free Legal Assistance which significantly improves the situation in this problem compared to the previous one. Now, with certain solutions, free legal aid makes it more accessible to those who should be able to achieve it. However, despite the fact that I now believe free legal aid will be more accessible, it remains my impression that a certain number of citizens, quite large, who, by the standards of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, do not belong to a social group that have the right to such assistance, will nevertheless largely avoid taking professional legal aid from lawyers as the only ones authorised to provide such assistance. This is primarily because it can happen that a certain citizen, regardless of which does not belong to a social category which has had the right to achieve free legal assistance, comes to the point of being... threatened by the fact that he went into the exercise of his right and hired an expert who must be legally involved in the provision of legal assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That... puts you in a position to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a person doesn't want to hire a lawyer and miss out on someone's right to belong to him, this which, of course, is not good in principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The primary reason for this is the system of determining legal tariffs which are not market category and where there is no competition. I find such regulation justified in order to protect the profession. But I do believe, however, that the current system of determining legal tariffs should, if so appointed by the state, still suffer certain changes. Such a system of determining legal tariffs may, I believe, lead to the fact that certain categories of citizens in practice cannot really come to legal aid or the possibility of exercising certain rights. Now tariffs are mainly determined according to the value of the subject matter. So more points bring things where the value of the dispute is higher. It is clear that there is a lawyer's interest in such cases to perform as large as possible. It is clear that they should be appealed to their ethical awareness that they are not doing unnecessarily unnecessarily and thus do not cause harm and endanger the rights of the party. But I don't think that should leave it exclusively to a lawyer's conscience because in practice we see it often and it's not unfortunately the case. Although this system has been corrected because a certain number of cases... belongs to a certain number of points in some panic actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then we can see that a large number of lawyers do not want to take such cases because there is a lower chance of making money and are very undecided in taking such cases into work. Therefore, it seems to me that in determining the problem of legal tariffs, much more regulation would be recommended in order to extend the number of cases where a certain number of points is prescribed for certain actions and for certain procedures and to prescribe a maximum number of points as a reward for certain cases. This problem is also present in other professions where tariffs are prescribed for any sublegal acts, whether by decisions of certain associations, chambers that have the right to determine those tariffs. And it often seems to me that these fees are quite unrealistic. And citizens are forced to take their services because they are forced to do so by legal regulations. Here, I'd like that problem to be handled in the work of the attorney general. When I've already caught up with this subject, I think one, that the work of a lawyer as such may be a little under-controlled, which leads to certain violations of the rights of citizens conditioned by that, however, that the lawyer's profession enjoys a certain protection of the state. A concrete example that I have previously set in procedures based on a credible document can therefore be observed by the practice that certain law offices that appear in these cases as... for invoices which take a large number of executive items, they charge the costs of the exercise increased for the cost of obtaining the power of 312 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if the perpetrators settle their earlier debts, immediately after they have accepted the proposal for a performance and before the solution to the decision becomes a forceful law firm, they do not carry out that action for which they take the compensation. It is regrettable that many do not return that fee unless the party itself asks for it. Many do not react at all because of unskilledness, many parties do not react and pay for something that is not properly done for them. The public notebooks shall accept such proposals in order to comply with such non-reduced costs. Unfortunately, I have to say about the unethical accession of members of the legal profession, which I am deeply disturbed by as a lawyer, and it is obvious that more attention is needed in this area by the state authorities and perhaps by the attorney general as the attorney general of this house. Furthermore, the report reiterates the lack of a timely response by the competent authorities to the hearings of the Advocate General. It's a problem that's clearly repeated year after year. In my debate on the Law on the Ombudsman, I expressed my opinion that such an act should essentially be sanctioned disciplinaryly, that appropriate provisions may be prescribed in the Law on civil servants and tenants in this regard. Well, here's what I suggest is that such an initiative be launched by the Attorney General's Office. On the other hand, the views relating to persons deprived of liberty are repeated year after year. This is most often conditioned by the lack of a natural place to accommodate prisoners and staff, especially medical staff in therefore prisons and correctional homes. It is obvious that it is necessary to train that the number of capacities related to open-end institutions may be expanded and that the Institute of Replacement of Prisons is applied to a maximum extent by working for the common good. Surely, the initiative of the attorney general may also be welcome on that side. However, the part relating to working official relations I would estimate is rather thinly processed in this report compared to one of my estimates that therefore the number of infringements of the rights of citizens in that field is far greater than could be concluded from the number of 39 complaints which have been lodged. Media reports show that the number of rights violations in the area is far greater than this conclusion that could be imposed. Also recently, there was a major article in the media on an entrepreneur who was engaged in catering activities, which, according to employees, was hardly insulting their labour rights. ...inspection my impression in this area is in no way satisfactory. Obviously, there are numerous cases of non-reporting of employees, delaying the conclusion of work contracts, non-payment of overtime, etc., which are not treated by inspection services. Of course, how bad the economic situation is because it was interrupted in 2008 must be hard to expect that those who work will go to sue, write lawsuits, complaints, already people are happy to do and suffer everything and everything. I think we should urinate here especially on inspections and inspection services to better control and prevent widespread violations of workers' rights. As regards the report relating to local self-government, municipal and other public affairs is highlighted in accordance with Article 197. Water law that water services must therefore be provided under non-discriminatory and socially acceptable conditions. In many parts, unfortunately, we must conclude many of our citizens do not have an adequately solved drinking water problem. The right to drinking water should be effective for all residents of opinion alone, who live in a place with a status of the settlement. But that is not so, even in the city of Zagreb, we have recently had the opportunity to witness a tragic case 25 km from here by road, an air line of 15 km in... upper where due to the lack of adequate water supply, residents are supplied from the local water line in which man drowned and who is there in that water storage his body stood for a certain long time. Also, here are the current inhabitants of the Lower Mountain with no water in the city of Zagreb, which gives 20 million kuna for fountains. If it's not discrimination, then I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52563	Thank you very much. And the closing word on behalf of the HNS club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52564	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney with an associate, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Several findings and comments on today's debate and this topic at the end of a long day. I will not, of course, enter into the quality of the debate and the focus of speakers on the topic itself because it would likely cause a wave of replicas and then not come out of this assembly until late at night. But I'm going to comment on some of the things that I think are important on behalf of the HNS Club for promoting real values in society, eliminating discrimination among other things, or at least bringing it down to some acceptable, negligible measure. Mrs. Sunčana Glavak found one thing well in her presentation, that it is a big problem to recognize discrimination today, so we referred among other things to various cases of individual who, in one part, are very likely to be discrimination, there may be construction in Croatian media that are objectively as they are today. But I would recommend to the Advocate General that, in addition to solving and managing a system that solves individual cases when it comes to discrimination as an independent institution of this society, which has been called to defend citizens' rights, go around a little bit of the terrain and particularly visit areas like, areas of Bukovica, Kninian hinterland and face the right discrimination that still exists today in the Republic of Croatia, and that the fruit is a quiet, systematic, continuous policy of discrimination of citizens in this country under the alibi that someone in this country is a winner, and someone has been defeated. I personally belong to those who were '95. years of winners and I am proud of it, but I cried with shame and I am not ashamed to say, in 2005 in Hervenik and in 2011 in the diocese when I saw to what level human rights were contained by the implementation of a continuous policy of discrimination in the Republic of Croatia. I've seen people living in misery below every level for every conviction of every true Christian, the true not declared but true Christian. I've seen people who don't have water because they're systematically refused to bring water. I've seen people who have no right to education, to culture, to a normal connection with the world, to primary health care that no one cares about who lives below each civilization level, and that's Croatia today, and that's the fruit of individual policies that teach us lessons in this House today, and they've been led thoughtfully and systematically for the last 20 years. So I urge you to take a seat in the car, make an effort because you are invited to speak publicly about the state of human rights and thus warn the Croatian public and this honorable House of what is happening in this country. And the second not less important is that in your report it's apostrophe, and that's a question of unlawful legal aid. It was once built into laws, perhaps even more like a matter of principle, than a dominant problem in the functioning of the judiciary. However, today unfortunately after a long series of years of crisis, the poverty of Croatian citizens is a question of effective functioning of free legal assistance to one of the fundamental issues of the functioning of the legal system especially when we have a evident multi-annual, long-term dissatisfaction with the functioning of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. Today, unfortunately, people are left homeless. When their apartment is completed, when their mortgage is activated, and they are in such a financial state that they cannot be effectively protected from corporations, or banks that have very capital to pay the most skilled, best lawyers in order to achieve their material ambitions but perhaps also achieve their rights. And finally, counterpart Milas mentioned one problem that endangering human rights is the publication of the Croatian Defence Register because most defenders were against it. I didn't notice a colleague named Miles. There are those who were against it, but you mentioned explicitly we can look at the stenogram most defenders. No one has made a referendum among the defenders, you are the defender, which is commendable in any case, and with me raises the price as a man. The defender is me and many others in this room. I am personally proud to be part of that list, because it is a testimony to future generations who were people who defended democracy and the freedom of citizens in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52565	A colleague named Tink Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52566	Thank you very much. I never spoke to my colleague Baranovic in most or in minorities. We're talking about an individual here, so we're talking about a man. We can talk about thousands of people here. Therefore, the right of an individual to the protection of personal data, to human rights, so to ask him whether or not it is for it, and not to base his reasoning through a legal act that this will strengthen his honor, that this will result in the rise of the Homeland War on importance, etc. That's funny stories. Let's give people the right to be who they are, like any other category in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52567	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52568	Comrade Milas, it is your right to have such an attitude, and it is my right to ask for that list to be published in order to, for example, be able to find out through that list whether the resident former football judge, who was suddenly honest with the knee of the Homeland War, is really being a defender and whether it really is an exact claim and a finding that it is a disabled Homeland War, and, consequently, is exempt from paying taxes to the Republic of Croatia which I am in my particular case not, although I am much more booted sadder and I am not more honest during the judicial career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52569	Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52570	That's right, Madam Vice President. So, a colleague of Baranovic's injured Article 238. You said one notorious lie and a lie! Croatian defenders are not exempt from income tax, but depending on the degree of disability. It is another mark on Croatian defenders. Look at the Income Tax Act, and you'll see, and it's a shame you made a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52571	Comrade Shuker, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you've corrected something that the wrong colleague said. Danesh Shaw, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52572	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, you have described the situation very nicely in a particular section, I mean economic and state and developmental terms. I'd only like to say two words on the area of Baranja. I could repeat all your words like this where such a treasure is tens of thousands of fertile ornaments, forests, water, and resources are natural. And in these last ten or twenty years, I'd say from that area, there's an income flowing because it's been created. This wealth gives income, and our villages, one part and the smaller one comes not only to income outflows but also to the population and it will turn into small salasses, because it will remain only a few families in these villages. Here's how much I wanted, just below.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52573	Replication response. Oh, no? And Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52574	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Baranovic, when you were talking about the Croatian Defence Register, I must warn you that he is still the subject of a debate at the Constitutional Court filed by the club of representatives and individuals who filed a constitutional suit in the light of civil rights and Croatian defenders. And those of us who represent associations and who are elected legally in front of associations, I 35000, my colleague Milas in front of 15000 volunteers, have made it clear that they are opposed by those associations who have given us support that we are against the publication of the register. Because that's not how 200 thousand are persecuted under the allegations of "false defenders", that's not how no one is called because in Croatia today there are legitimate institutions and the Ministry of the Interior to whom we belonged and the Ministry of Defence can do it quietly if there is a possible someone who has wrongly acquired or has acquired the status of defender under criminal law. The second thing is, it's visible today that after so much heist over 200 thousand fakes under quotes, I'm going to tell you 30 reported reports that we're going to see how they're going to end up. Therefore, it is your right to worry about whether someone has acquired false or false status but it is not the right to judge anyone in advance and for Croatian defenders as well as for Croatian citizens it is worth protecting and rights to their personality, to your intimacy, to protect the data as well as any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I'm proud to be able to watch, but I can't let everyone screw with my name and my pride.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52575	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52576	I must admit that with this last esteemed colleague, Djakic, you were not clear to me. I respect, of course, every citizen's right, and especially my fellow fighters to have their say and opinion. I repeat that I do not view this list as any list of shame and where I am fortunate to have lists of all those Croatian heroes who have died throughout history for the Croatian war flag, starting with those under Petro Svecic on the Iron to this day. But we don't have any regrets. No one systematically arranged those data, no one made them available to read who they were and who they were guilty of. Today we know hypothetically that there were those who fought with the Hungarians against Svacic, and that there were also honest ones who fought with Svacic against the Hungarians. At least our situation is clear here. Or so it seems. I respect that you have the right to your position. In the end, you mentioned that it was before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court in the rule of law will bring final justice and then we will know whether it is constitutional or not constitutional. In the rule of law, if it is a constitutional census, it will remain until some time when it will eventually rule on the basis of democratic elections, some set that will be considered inappropriate and will be removed by the Croatian Constitutional Court or will decide that the list should be removed. In that case, be assured that people who believe deeply in the rule of law and democracy will respect that decision. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52577	Ms. Laura Vidovic's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52578	Thank you very much. Here's after really all day and the debate that's at least for me, maybe I'm unaccompanied, I've been exhausting but still constructive, I have, of course, a few topics that I'd like to look back on anyway. Mr Babić, I am sorry that he is gone, at the very beginning when it comes to the 2012 Report he spoke about politicisation in the public administration, or politicisation of civil servants. We talked a lot about this in the report for 2012 and thus the report states that the Constitution guarantees each citizen that under equal conditions he participates in public affairs, that he can be admitted to public service, that there is no doubt that without a public tender, not every state service is available on equal terms. Of course, even in situations where tenders and testing are conducted, this testing is not objectively conducted, making it difficult to prove in the appeal procedure. This problem, we topic about it, we also write in the Report on the occurrences of discrimination when we talk about the basis of political conviction. Appeals concerning discrimination on the basis of political conviction concern the inability to advance, get fired after elections and so forth. One very interesting complaint from the lady who reported to the cleaning lady in a public legal body, and that is, her job is conditioned by membership in a political party. She joined a political party to get a job and didn't get it because the same job was given to someone else who was in the same political party for longer than she was. So, for the cleaning job. ... I don't know if she's out or not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what I really want to say is that Croatia is a very small country where it is extremely important that the public service really should have civil servants, that all officials and subsistence in public legal bodies to use the broadest possible concept really be professional and professional in order to have sufficient capacity to protect or allow the achievement of human rights of citizens in the best possible way. And there's no dilemma about it. If, after each election, government officials and tenants change at all levels, it is certainly not something that contributes to skills and stronger capacities in public legal bodies. A number of other topics are related to the 2012 Report mentioned, related to the problem of the return of exiles and refugees and the work of the State Office for Reconstruction. In fact, the establishment of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has been prepared all last year, this year's results have not yet been observed. So, slowly that office is going to work, but we still don't see the results we'd expect, we'll see what happens next year. Mrs Tyrelli mentioned the long-term duration of the adoption of a secondary solution in the administrative procedure concerning the Tax Administration, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. We are also talking about this in the context of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and other ministries. So, it's certainly a problem that hasn't remained undetected. The situation in the prison system Osijek and Glina is detailed in this report as well as the role of the media in the context of discrimination or hate speech, while pointing out that it is very important to us, we would find it very important to cooperate with the Croatian Journalist Society which unfortunately failed when we wrote this report. Health access is also mentioned in both reports. As regards the work or working relations in the classical Ombudsmanial function, therefore, when it comes to discrimination, it is the violation of the right of the Public Prosecutor under the Law on the General Prosecutor who is responsible only for public relations in public law bodies, so not in the private sector, so that our options are rather limited. Many of you have mentioned that you yourself are getting a lot of complaints from citizens in various areas, numerous complaints. What I do not, of course, have information that you do with these complaints and how you treat them and how, in the capacity of a parliamentary representative or politician, you can help people who send you complaints. What I would certainly appeal to is that you refer these complaints to us as well. I trust Mr Vuksic that we will be more effective in this than the Water Administration and within the competences that we have that we can certainly institutionally work on it, so if in some situations we do not have a specific authority to help a specific person, for example. when he has a judicial decision which he is not satisfied with, and yet it will give us information on the phenomenon that we will be able to report to the Croatian Parliament or to you as is the case here today. I am sorry that we no longer talked about the 2012 reports, although of course it was the case in many exhibitions. Many of you spoke about the work of the office in 2013 or about my work, so I would point out only a few figures and perhaps respond to some of the remarks that were sent. So at 15.10.2013, 2404 complaints were received in the office, with the same day last year, a 76% increase. At the same time, we participated in different stages of the procedure in the adoption or in the procedure of amendments and additions to 10 laws or sublegal acts. The new Rules of Procedure have been adopted, three reports have been submitted on the work we are talking about today, an initiative has been launched, i.e. a procedure for the appointment of members, i.e. for the start of the Human Rights Council of the Ombudsman, the first activities for the opening of the district offices as Mr Hajdukovic mentioned what we are going to do for us to be much more accessible to the most vulnerable groups of citizens, therefore the oldest, especially those who are poor who are difficult to reach Zagreb, and in some way may give them the opportunity to tell us what their problems are and how their rights have been violated. All of this at this point is not with 35 officers and 2 tenants, as Mr. Cain said last year, but with 31 employees and 1 tenant, therefore with reduced capacity compared to last year. As far as the public and the presence of me as attorney general and public defenders have collected some information from my colleagues, so I can tell you, so one is the quantity and number of appearances is another of course the quality and subject by which I appear. By 14 June 2013, therefore, it is 228 days as far as I am on the duty of the Ombudsman, 365 articles were published, publishing, hosting, mentioning, so this is one daily calendar view. Clicking on our website was almost 2 million, and unique visits to the site are a million 700 thousand. We also started twitter about a month ago. Of course he is as limited as the web to certain target groups of citizens who use these social networks but in any case he is one I would say active promotional work. The campaigns that some of you have mentioned are very expensive and we for this kind of public campaign to talk about our work we don't have money, and they don't seem to be the most effective. When it comes to the way I step forward, so it's not about the quantity of the pieces, what's my firm belief, and how I'm going to do this job is that I'm not going to go public commenting on individual cases because it's not about individual cases. It's about people whose rights are very likely to be broken anyway and who are in difficult situations in life. My disembarking in public and providing details of these situations and of what they are faced with except by breaking the law because it would hurt the secrecy of the information involved, I think it would essentially violate their rights and make their situation even more difficult. I certainly think and I will and I have so far, and it is important to talk about phenomena and topics and areas where such violations of human rights occur. Unfortunately, someone mentioned this today, too, is not interested in the media. Yesterday was a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities with three points of the agenda. The first was the Report on the implementation of the work of the National Prevention Mechanism, the second on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the third on the Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Today, or even last night on the T-portal, an article detailed on the second and third item of the agenda has no letter. I wonder why that is? All the topics mentioned in today's debate are topics that I have come up with in public. And politicisation of public administration at the beginning of the 3rd month, and health education, and referendum, and question of bilingualism and bilingual inscriptions in Vukovar. We organized an expert public debate on the subject of "Ovreda and Human Rights", which was attended by assistant ministers of justice and social policy and youth, university professors of Vice-Government of the CNB. Calls for this public debate were sent to all clubs of representatives, all relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry to say, but here's a thank you to Mr. Želj Schemper, who was the only one from the Croatian Parliament at that public hearing. None of you have responded, unfortunately, all of you have received a call. From that round table, from that public debate were the media, I will give an example of Nova TV that has contributed to the journal, about the problem, which was interviewed by the assistant minister, who interviewed other participants, not a word about who organised this public debate, not a word of it. Well, now, me, together, we can figure that out. I wonder what the problem is, in fact, in my lack of activity or calling for something that I have or haven't done or in the fact that we actually have to work together on how the media sees topics in the field of protection of human rights and combating discrimination. I'm adding to that list of topics that I've now listed even forced hospitalization and housing issues. As for discrimination and how much we feel discriminated against. Do we know what discrimination is? In a colloquial sense, we often mention this term and today it has been mentioned many times in various ways here. However, what we will call colloquial discrimination differs from real discrimination as defined by law. So for discrimination we have to have basics and must be in one of the areas. And obviously this debate today was, in fact, an indication that this is a subject that we all need to talk about and learn about more together. I also took note today in this debate that in fact a very large number of people in the general public but also among parliamentary deputies do not know in fact what the powers of jurisdiction, opportunities, part-time work, the way the ombudsman worked, especially the way he was a year ago and what he was like now in relation to changes, legislative changes, in which I mean, not the personal ones that took place in the meantime. It applies to a large extent and to the institution's name. Well, I'm taking the opportunity to appeal that when you talk about an institution that I'm headed to use the name of the attorney general. I'm not a public defender, I'm not a state's attorney, I'm nothing but a public defender in a job I'm doing, I'm asking you nicely to adopt that term and to address me like that. One of the things I carry with me as a note from this whole day's debate is certainly Croatian Radio Television. The situation, only the state of Croatian broadcasting is not in the jurisdiction of the attorney general, but it certainly violates the individual rights of the people who work on HRT, is. Cases you've dealt with with names and last names for which the office has or has not acted, in some cases it is, in some cases not, I will not publicly export and count them. However, it is important for me to know that when acting on your own initiative, it is necessary to ask for the consent of the person whose rights are violated. This is not necessary if the injury is found through the media, but, of course, in some of the situations you mentioned, it is expected that persons whose rights are injured will nevertheless decide to file a complaint against the office rather than vice versa. Although, of course, at the level of that, as I would say, rules, no exceptions, of course we're going to be doing things on our own initiative a lot more than we've done so far. I note that this is also one news about the new law. As regards the reports and methodologies to which these three reports are written and the future of the report. It is very important for me to make an important distinction, the report on the work of the occupier is about the classical Ombudsman function and the Law on the Ombudsman. By law of '92. which was valid until the middle of last year, the Ombudsman submitted only reports on his work. It is only since the middle of last year that it reports on its work but also on the phenomena that it notices about the state of human rights if we can say so in Croatia. While the 2008 report on the prevention of discrimination has therefore given a mandate to speak about both. It is precisely to connect it and to hope that I will not put myself in trouble now when I say this, but if not for the next one and then in 2015, after 2014 when we overcome the first steps and initial mistakes that we will be able to have a report that will be a report on the work of the Ombudsman but will actually give a full picture of the state of human rights in Croatia and from the perspective of the Ombudsman. So not only about what the office was doing but also about what it really is, what a picture it is, what a state of human rights is. We know that so far they have actually done this for us for the Croatian International NGOs, the State Department that is mentioned today. The State Department's report really has a lot of practical mistakes. I would like to methodologically create a way that also depends largely on the capacity of the office in terms of the existence of an adequate database, that in some not-so-far-away future we will be able to submit to the Croatian Assembly a complete, real state and picture of human rights in Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52579	Thank you very much. And now we'll hear the replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52580	The esteemed Attorney General, I did say well, I did. You were talking about it, I think Mr. Milanovic was saying, I don't know, I'm not sure but he'll tell me members of the Kukuriku Coalition, it's called a rotating door, or they kind of said it, only that often we know... only that the rotating door works by principle you go in, you don't come out. We've made sure of that. We've got so many civil servants from here. And there you are right when you insist on competitions and that competition is necessary, necessary for every job and that should be the rule, it should be legal. You were talking about one thing, about your presence in the media. 365 posts as far as I've realized in 228 days or something or vice versa, it's not even that important number because it doesn't matter the quantity, it's the quality, the way you're saying it. As often as we underestimate the media, the media recognizes, except for some evil individuals, the media knows what's good and how to place and how to sell newspapers, how to intrigue viewers. So that's very important. Let's not say it's too late from your cancer that they're doing everything they can to keep us from coming. Maybe these were more intriguing topics. I don't know, I wasn't looking, so I don't know. We're often surprised at the Parliament that they just picked those sentences for, you know, when journalists say "breathing under the nose" when they put those exact sentences on us. Well, then you look at some logic, then you see that logic is their good. You don't need trees and stones on the media that often go too far. When you're talking about the HRT case, it's about the human...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52581	Thank you very much. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52582	I'm done already? I thought you'd stop...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52583	Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52584	Thank you. Dear Madam Madam Attorney General, so I must admit that you've been very pleasantly surprised by this last address and the exposé about the performance of our parliamentary representatives on this subject and I wish you a great deal of success in your work and regardless of the remarks some members of our club had about your choice, I don't think it's up to you, that it's not certain, that you didn't actually deserve it. It is a question of the functioning of the ruling coalition and it should not burden your work. And I hope, given that you have really accepted a lot from our debates, I believe that this situation with HRT will still get some epilogue and that you will really make sure that human rights there are never again threatened, and I hope that the ruling coalition together with us will contribute to the fact that people who systematically violate human rights or try to violate them that they will not be elected to the positions that are responsible, in public function, and in this sense I expect the further development of this situation.... Thank you very much, and I really wish you a lot of success. The only thing I'm worried about, maybe it's because of this visibility you've been talking about, about your performances, 365 shows as many as you've already had, but I'm concerned about that number of items that have been increased by you said over 70%. We can interpret that in different ways. One way is your visibility, but another thing we can say unfortunately that the rights today are more endangered than they were before. So you can also talk about it. Anyway, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52585	It can also be said that people have less fear than public appearances. Comrade Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52586	Thank you very much. The esteemed Attorney General, I cannot agree with you to ignore you in public. You have to fight not to ignore you in public because if the problem is the execution of something that bothers 272 thousand citizens, it's 20 billion kunas that are blocked daily, you don't need to win in the journal for five minutes but you need to have an hour's show with all those experts and explain to people what it's about. Because if that's not the case, then the poor pensioner can't exercise his human right to get his pension, and that's a common phenomenon. They get a pension, and they don't get that part by law, they block everything from them. These people have been out of line for a month, and they need someone to help them get out of it, so it's basic, and that's why we'd have a public defender and we asked, personally, for you to step forward and look for that space. If they won't give it to you, I think we have a problem. ... We all have a problem, not a public defender because she needs to protect us, I think the lady should protect us all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52587	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52588	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed Attorney General. I have here in front of me the Law on the Public Attorney, not the Attorney General, and it says here the birth neutrality of the term. I'm saying this because it shouldn't bother you, words and concepts, concepts that have gender significance, whether they're used in the law in a male or female gender, apply equally to male and female. It doesn't matter that much. It may be more important that you, in your Office, serve proactively and strengthen public awareness in the society that we have talked about here all day and, of course, that every action in this direction in the protection of human rights is supported and welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52589	And Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52590	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned 365 shows, or appearances. And then you mentioned an event and you mentioned a commercial television that bothered you. At that moment, you felt invisible. And imagine those people who are invisible every day? Yeah. So long as you don't feel it yourself by name and last name and in your function at that moment you can only understand what it means to be invisible and that's good. That's good from, if we're looking at it from the angle of the work that you're doing. The public or the populace less important, less important, is the context. He mentioned himself here, HRT, so I'm asking nicely. We talk a lot here, but you can hear us a little. That's what you think about your job. What's important is that the media gets through. The same way that you and your role can encourage public television, and it is mandatory to do so in accordance with the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you get a media space, a media space in which we will all be able to talk about what is worrying, and that is really the state of human rights. The worst thing that can happen to a man is that he is invisible, as has already been mentioned today by the workers of Kamenski and the workers of HRT, and all those who have been disproved, and do not dare speak of it to their neighbors, let alone to reach you. The worst is when no one sees you and no one hears you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52591	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I thank Mrs. Vidovic and her associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u52592	The following is the 2012 report on the work of the Advocate General. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2012 is hereby adopted." I'd like to make our point on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 95 votes in favour and 26 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's responsibility that, in accordance with the report by the Advocate General, the examinations of the reasons for the lack of urgency in the delivery of the evidence of the competent state authorities to the hearings of the Advocate General, which directly violates the Law on the Ombudsman and makes it difficult to exercise the fundamental human rights of citizens addressing the Ombudsman, 2. The opinion, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as the comments, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective." Please plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion was adopted unanimously with 120 votes for both.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53329	And we move on to - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2012 The Ombudsman for children submitted the report on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. You took the materials into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by the Ombudsman for the children of Ms. Mila Jelavic. Here you go, Mrs. Jelavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53330	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, you will be presented with a report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children for 2012 as well as a picture of the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia for 2012. Introductoryly, I would like to point out that this is the 10th report in line to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament, which means that this year we mark 10 years since the establishment of this independent institution. It is also an opportunity to take a brief look at the past 10 years at the main features of development and change in the domain of children's rights, and I can say that in recent years changes have occurred in different areas of children's lives. Many of them are positive because they follow the interests of children, and primarily this concerns the awareness of society about children's needs, the specificities of their protection and the need for their involvement in the development of social processes. But all these years, there have been numerous violations of children's rights in the family, in the institutions, in other places, as well as the increasing number of applications we receive from year to year. The 2012 work report I'm moving on to it now and I can only say that it's a data display. It also follows a methodology used in earlier years. The first part contains data, information on infringements of individual rights of children, followed by part containing general initiatives of the office, or proposals and recommendations for building a complete system of protection of children's rights. The following is the part relating to warnings, proposals and recommendations to prevent harmful actions. Then proposals for amendments to regulations, visits by institutions and insight into the conditions in which children or children live in them for a shorter or longer period of time. Then there are activities related to the protection and promotion of children's rights, as well as a demonstration of meetings, conversations and cooperation with children. We also give a presentation of the activities on the international plan and finally a presentation of the work of the regional offices as specificities of the Office of Advocates for Children who function or which we established in 2007. And that was actually the year in which the number of complaints and our visibility in society actually increased multiplely than it was before the establishment of regional offices. It means that in 2013 we have actually been working for 6 years, functioning outside Zagreb in dislocated units in Split, Osijek and Rijeka. At first, I would actually like to refer to a few statistics on our work and conduct over the past year and point out that last year we opened 2481 new items, of which 1228 are individual applications, i.e. applications that we receive from individuals of children, citizens, parents, relatives, institutions. They also cover 1825 children, and 1253 are the general initiatives of the office. I want to highlight this because the number of general initiatives is greater than the number of applications received, and that is important for us. This means that we are not sitting in the office and not only waiting for applications, but actually monitoring events in society, monitoring the state of protection or child rights, we are coming forward with our initiatives. And I can truly say with pride that there have been more in the past year than there have been reports. And that's an extremely important approach for us. The more our general initiatives include children, the greater they are, and more children than individual applications. Somewhere by the number of applications we compare to the year before. In 2012, we have an increase of about 10%. We've also had 1998 phone consultations that don't go into these numbers, and, of course, they never even manage to record everything. It's a word, two only about the structure of the injury. The largest group, as well as previous years, are infringements of the rights of children related to their personal status, i.e. the personal rights of children of 753 of which 403 injuries are rights to life in the family with parents, parental care, means everything that arises from family relations and 295 refers to violence and neglect. These two groups of injuries have unfortunately been preceded in their numbers for many years by how many children are being violated. I will only mention that the third one in the ranking of children's educational rights is then this year the fourth one is, and the fourth one by the number of injuries is a violation of the economic rights of children. In doing so, I would also like to mention today’s Day of Fight against Poverty and Chances or Troubles in which many children are unfortunately or are present. This injury, or violation of this group, has increased our rights compared to the previous years. During 2012, we participated in our memberships in law-making working groups, then sending comments and proposals to 33 regulations and giving two initiatives to amend them. I must stress here an extremely good cooperation with many committees to discuss the laws relating to children and our activity or activity regarding writing remarks, proposals or proposing better protection of children. I would almost dare say that no law relating to children, or any of his provisions, remains intact as far as we are concerned, and this is extremely important to us because we believe that better regulation, better normative arrangement, also gives a better chance of protecting children. We have also visited numerous institutions in the past year, i.e. institutions or places where children live, 57 of them. Of which is 10 institutions of social care, 1 family home, 3 children's playgrounds, 3 health institutions, 28 educational institutions kindergartens means both primary schools, secondary schools, pupils' homes are these, 4 criminal institutions, 2 children's resorts, 2 therapeutic communities, 2 associations that care for children etc. Indeed a wide range of institutions that we have tried to visit and actually see, to see how children actually live there or how their rights are exercised. We have devoted much attention to working with children and young people and strengthening their role and increasing visibility in society. Children's participation in all topics of concern must be more pronounced, and that attitude is indeed repeated and we are also trying to act as an institution. In this sense, the counseling body for children also works, which is a network of young counselors who gathers 25 young people from different parts of Croatia who are important associates with whom we are discussing a number of topics and their thinking and their views are often fundamental to our views. That means we respect what they tell us, we listen to messages they actually want to give us. During 2012, we also made 51 general recommendations. They are listed and systematised in a specific section, or part of our report. And if we look at their acceptance or somehow execution by analysis, we've found that they've been accepted and realised somewhere around 34%. Of course, we are not satisfied with this percentage, that we would like this acceptance to be much higher, but I must point out that some of the recommendations have been accepted but are waiting to be realized until some conditions are met. There may also be a larger percentage of acceptance, but here we have seen the realization. The 2012 report covers a number of areas of children's lives in which their rights are violated or they are not achieved to the extent that they should. The old problems continue to exist, and new ones are opened every year. Despite the many years of pointing out the dangers of children in conflicting family relations and ineffective protection against violence of this topic, they are still dominant. I also supported it with numbers when I spoke to them earlier. The existing level of child protection faced with the interruption of a parent’s marriage or extramarital community whose parents reduce their need for both parents and deny them meetings and association with another parent is not satisfactory. In a number of cases, it is very difficult for the competent authorities to state that the best interest of the child is in the current situation, and even when the statements are withdrawn under the pressure of manipulative parents. Sometimes the media, too, regrettably, who often take the side of one of the parents completely unobstructed and show uncertainty in acting as a child’s child - care provider. If parents do not want to cooperate with each other or with the social care centre, there seems to be no effective way to protect the child and his rights. The reactions of the competent authorities to the manipulative actions of parents were often delayed, so children remain exposed to the actions that ultimately deny them in their right to the presence of both parents in their lives. The timely professional and comprehensive protection of children against violence and neglect is also not sufficient. Physical-emotional violence is universal, children are exposed to violence in their families, schools, homes for children, sports clubs, prisons, on the street. Body punishment is unfortunately still often used as a method of education. Violence among children and children in educational institutions is increasingly being added to the Internet or mobile, and the subject of peer violence is still a strong media area, which increases the impression of the problem of violence. At the same time, educators express their inability to seek protection from violent students, and they see the solution in strengthening pedagogical measures. However, increased repression without prevention is never a good solution, and such attitudes are regularly highlighted in discussions and discussions on the subject. By sharing rights with behavioral problems at all levels, we cannot be satisfied and not satisfied. Insufficiently linked organised, structured and evaluated preventive activities. The measures lack interdepartmental co-operation and joint planning, and often there are transfers of mutual responsibility. For children who exhibit behavioural disturbances, measures are insufficient and need to be restructured and strengthened. Despite the legislative changes aimed at reducing the number of children in institutions, real reductions have not yet taken place. The foster care is not sufficiently represented, the development of foster care is carried out too slowly, and there is no special specialised foster care. There is insufficient support for biological parents to create conditions for re-accepting children from institutions at times when they have to or should return home. It is unacceptable for children who are certain that returning to a biological family is not in their interest to keep in institutions and foster families for too long. It is important to take measures as soon as possible. In the area of child health protection, there is still a problem of insufficient number of professionals and physical and mental health and the duration of the suit of health institutions where children are being treated. The increasingly frequent appeal of parents who collect funds through humanitarian campaigns for the treatment of severely ill children. There is a need for better information from children and parents on the possibilities of exercising health insurance rights, in particular with regard to the possibility of the right to compensation for treatment costs abroad. The poverty caused by the economic crisis and the general state of society unfortunately marked this year. The increasing standard of living, living under inappropriate housing conditions, difficulties due to parental performance, non-payment of child support, but also the reduction of various benefits and benefits of social security have affected children's lives. In order to protect them, it is therefore necessary to increase the social sensitivity of the state in ensuring and achieving measures and programmes for the socially endangered. The level of efficiency of the judiciary in procedures in which children's rights are resolved is not satisfactory. We have been repeating the longevity of court proceedings for years and it is not good for children. Despite some shifts, the child - and - witness protection system continues to show numerous shortcomings. Investments in the technical, spatial and personnel equipment of courts as well as changes in the organisation of the trial are necessary in order to increase the efficiency of the judiciary when it comes to the protection of children in judicial proceedings. In order to improve the availability of education and education, to improve the relevant content and to improve the spatial and staff capacities of educational institutions, clear measures are needed and their unsustainable implementation should be monitored at national, regional and local level. Continuing and professional training and training of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors in the field of human rights and children's rights is necessary, strengthening their professional competences and establishing a system of labour evaluation and work licenses. Schools should be places where children will receive all information related to the preservation of mental, sexual and physical health, prevention of violence and addiction and healthy lifestyles. Due to a number of problems such as the lack of competence of staff of educational institutions and appropriate forms of education for children with developmental difficulties and the inability to exercise the right to assist in teaching, the achievement of educational rights in everyday life remains a problem for children with developmental difficulties and their parents. It is necessary to create conditions for the reception of children with difficulties in the regular school system with the provision of appropriate support, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The situation of children of members of national minorities is conditioned by the behaviour of adults, their lack of understanding and lack of tolerance for the needs of these children. More attention is needed towards the majority population in order to eliminate prejudice as well as the development of human rights and the culture of life, as well as acceptance and respect for diversity. The suffering of children on playgrounds and in playgrounds points to inappropriate venues for children's play, non-sustainability, failure of game devices and lack of supervision, the obligation of units of local self-government to maintain and monitor children's playgrounds and the state is obliged to take measures to pass laws to ensure the child's right to safe play and to grow up in secure conditions. I must also mention the safety of transport and organised transport of children, it is also not enough except for the need for increased supervision of compliance with the regulations governing this area, the development and improvement of road infrastructure, additional efforts need to be made to protect children in riding bicycles, and in transporting children to private vehicles and in organised transport. Insufficient and ineligible investment in infrastructure and modernisation of air pollution plants also endangers children's health from adverse environmental impacts. Further efforts should be made to fully achieve the right of the child to take part in the decision-making process. It's unacceptable for adults to have someone else on behalf of us make decisions and it actually seems to us if we don't involve children in that it's okay. We, as an office, are really constantly warning because we think it is important to increase and strengthen the activity of children and involve children in the process of passing and the documents that concern them and everything they can participate in. I would also mention the problems that arise in the area of leisure and the need to pay more attention and ensure conditions for spending free time at local level. Namely, satisfying offers or opportunities of leisure are also the best prevention for many unwanted behaviors we unfortunately have. Rights violations experienced by children engaged in sports suggest the need for increased engagement of institutions of associations and individuals in achieving safety, availability and quality of sports content in relation to children. I would also mention advertising of products and services, which is an activity that abuses children for marketing purposes and encourages... not by appropriate advertising in educational and educational institutions, until the relevant content of television ads and on the advertising websites teletext advertising beer, tobacco products, pyrotechnic means, the purchase of objects from silver and gold endangers their interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the whole society has become more sensitive to the violation of the rights of children in the media regulations that protect children do not apply, sanctions are largely lagging behind. But we also need to view the child as a entitled to access information and media users, and we need to ensure that media literacy is developed in addition to protection. I would like to finally state that there is a great interest in the media for the work of our office, for our views, for the opinions of intervention. This can be seen from the figures mentioned in this 2012 report. And I would only say in one sentence what they are and what that really means. In 2012, we had 414 publications in printed media, 133 statements or participation on television, 171 statements or radio participation, in total 718 media advances. And I have to say that in this issue, our initiatives or reactions aren't published on the portals, because portals, they're hard to record, so here's the hard part. All of what I have now stated is actually a summary of the problems in the lives of children in our country that we have met in our work. As a responsible society, it is entirely up to us to raise awareness of irregularities, solve problems, continuously reduce the number of child rights violations, and make children's participation in society as visible as possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53331	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53332	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates. Here's the 10th report and congratulations on one anniversary. In fact, every report and this year we see that we are moving forward in one positive direction, towards the awareness of the society of children's needs and on the specificities of their protection, whether they are in the family, whether they are in institutions or in the social community. We see that the problems have been detected and I would say that I would take that as a basis for further work, i.e. as an indicator of whether we are doing well and in that sense we will accept this report somewhere. When we look at the structure of new items, they were usually infringements of individual rights of the child, and the majority of such applications are related to issues of parental care, but also to reports of violence against children or child neglect. The problem of poor functioning of parents is detected from the aspect of relations with children after divorce, frequent manipulations, these are frequent reports of one parent, especially parents with whom children do not live but unfortunately for non-existent violence. Also, a part of the parent does not accept a different view of raising this other parent, not to mention denying and meeting with another parent. Here's the information that over 1,500 children a year have been denied the encounter and association with parents they don't live with. It is therefore necessary to welcome the proposal for a new Family Law drawn up by an expert working group at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which will deal with conflict divorce issues, then setting out meetings and association with the child, measures on family legal protection, or abstention. We must also welcome here and the mediation so that such a family law will definitely help protect children. Well, I'm sure all those working on such cases know that the traumas that result from children because of their disturbed parent relationships are huge, and I'm sure they're also the biggest experts who have a variety of educations to admit that these are very difficult moments in their practice. The report also states that there is no reduction in the number of children in institutions in this sense that various activities are being carried out in order to improve the adoption of children, so the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has made, has established a single register of potential adopters, and is also working on education, sensitisation and awareness, even working with civil society associations involved in child adoption. A problem in the field of mental health protection is also detected. As for caring for the mental health of children, we can actually say that mental health and children and young people is a social priority recognised by the Council of Europe and that a proposal for further development of child and adolescent psychiatry has been built. We know that the formed committee of psychiatrists who are actually going to develop is actually going to work on developing mental health, but it's true that child psychiatrists are missing. Public Health Services they're actually working on risk prevention programs. Other programs work with children who show behavioral disorders. Public education is also being done. When you look at mental health then we can mention three levels here, and these are hospitals when we have a system of specialist-consular health care, then it's a psychiatry in the community when we have the care of psychiatric patients and mental health that basically leads to mental health that basically has a preventive character. They need to recognize risky behavior and strengthen skills to essentially prevent pathology. This report also shows an alarming increase in exposure to violence in children, whether domestic violence, schools, homes, etc., means peer violence, then violent behavior of adults and homes and in the public sphere. And since we are increasingly experiencing a new violence, violence against children through the media is really taking global proportions, and that's also the Internet and cell phones, this one virtual path of violence that currently lacks the means to fight it. I'd still be apostrophe of increased reports of domestic violence, which essentially indicates a lack of parenting in child rearing. The conclusion is that we need prevention programs for parents who should actually raise the level of knowledge about parenting, or parental competences. On the other hand, preventive action should be done in such a way as to help dysfunctional families reduce violence, that is to say, so that their children can grow and develop in as appropriate conditions as possible. Parents need help, parents need to be aware of their responsibilities in growing and developing and raising a child. We believe that, with all preventive programmes and the prevention of violence from kindergartens, other educational institutions, with continued education of breeders, teachers, professional associates, parents should be involved. Parents need help. I repeat, that's how we actually help our children. In conclusion, you state that schools should be a place where children will receive all information related to the preservation of mental, sexual, physical, etc., prevention of violence, adoption of new lifestyles, healthy lifestyles. I'd like to list a strategic document here to prevent addiction, suppress and abuse of drugs between children and young people. It means national strategy, then the National Action Plan, the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence, etc. In fact, the aim is to even up and work on this, to unify the preventive system at country level and to develop uniform criteria for the evaluation of preventive programmes. We've been saying for years that we have a lot of preventive programs, how much we invest. However, recovery steps are small. That is why I also welcome what the Government is doing, which is that it wants to bring this preventive system into line at the level of the state, or the criteria of a single evaluation. It is predicted that prevention measures aimed at children are in line with the conduct of health care and this Module of Prevention of Dependence. But I'd like to ask you a question here. Everyone who works in schools who deals with preventive programs probably knows that. These are school preventive programs. What about them now? Are they now part of this health education because there were very good and elements and from this school preventive programme such as learning social skills. I would also refer to one of your observations, which is a problem with children with developmental difficulties and their parents in achieving education rights in the regular school system. This problem is about, but there is still work to be done, there is a need to ensure the conditions for the implementation of children's integration. That's what the local community is doing now, most of all, with assistants in the class. But unfortunately, it's a privilege of richer local communities. The child must be part of the regular class, we all agree. We all stand for inclusion. Why? However, when you have a child in your class, and you do not have an assistant in class, then the teacher’s attention must be placed between children who need more help and leave children. That's why we need to secure enough expert personnel. We have cases one-on-one that a real child needs a personal assistant, but another way is not to involve such a child. With the observation that further efforts need to be made, targeted support for the right to make decisions which you said earlier in the opening statement that it is necessary to strengthen children and young people for active participation in society and pay due attention to their opinion. I'd like to commend here, yesterday we had the first reading of the Law on Young People's Tips. So we have positive shifts in this direction. My colleagues and colleagues, it is necessary to point out in the end that children and young people follow, imitate, copy their social environment. That goes for both our parents and for us both here and for us politicians. It is up to us to give them the best childhood, the easier growing up, to show them by example that they are the right values of life in a peaceful, democratic and toleranceal society. We can't let some bad pictures of us adults spill over on our descendants. We must show them why it is important that through their own freedom of action that guarantees their lives in a democratic society they do not abuse the right of other members of the community to vary. In the end, as I initially said, this report serves as a basis for the state of children's rights in Croatia. And when we compare what this government is doing and what it has done, and I will only mention a few laws – the Law on Social Care, the Family Law, the Law on maternity support, the Law on Child Compensation, the Law on Nannys, the Law on Youth Tips, the National Youth Programme, etc. etc. I don't want to pick it up. I can only say that if this report is an indicator I can only say that we are on a good path and that we are working for the benefit of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53333	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53334	Honored vice presidents, esteemed attorneys, respected colleagues and colleagues. Reports on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2012 have been made up on 245 pages. This is a detailed picture of the problem with which the Ombudsman's Office met for Children last year, and a demonstration of the real level of concern about the achievement of children's rights in different areas of life. It presents a review of the application of individual rights of children, as well as general occurrences of violations of the right and endangering the interests of children. It was created on the basis of numerous direct addresses of parents, children or experts, and cooperation with institutions, associations and local communities. The report now provides a faithful picture of how and how in practice really protects children's rights in Croatia, how much our national plans and strategies are really and truly transmitted to life. In 2012, the Ombudsman’s Office received 1228 applications, infringements of the individual rights of children covered by a total of 1825 children. The remaining 1253 cases concern general initiatives of the office in the field of monitoring, protection and promotion of children's rights, cooperation with institutions, associations, organisations, in various projects and other activities. Among the applications is a prominent front of reports of violations of children's rights to life with parents and parental care that were even 403. Next in number, reports of child rights violations against violence and neglect that were 232, followed by violations of educational rights with 161 applications, violations of economic rights 93 applications, judicial protection 61 applications, social charges with 42 applications and health 28 applications. The special chapter on the Advocate General's proposals for taking measures for the full protection of children's rights shows the situation and the observed problems in areas such as the rights of children members of national minorities, children with behavioral problems, care for the mental health of children, the protection of children from addiction, the rights of children whose parents are in prison, children who are engaged in sports, children living on islands until they show the role of the local community in the protection of children's rights, the justice of children and children's rights in the media. In all areas in accordance with the principle of inclusion, the rights of children with developmental difficulties whose protection is an important indicator of... protection of children's rights in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report sets out 50 recommendations, proposals, warnings by the Ombudsman for children related to family legal protection, education, health, justice, child safety, protection of property interests of children, sports, protection of special vulnerable groups of children, media and others. A total of 27 laws and other regulations have also been shown to be part of the Advocate's Office. All this points to a proactive approach to the protection of children's rights by this institution. During the last year, a total of 57 institutions, organisations and different locations where children live or stay and where child care is organised. The main thing is 28 educational education institutions and 10 social care institutions, then health institutions, playgrounds, resorts, treatment communities, criminal institutions and others. The report describes the situation found in these institutions and recommendations for necessary improvements. The meetings of the Ombudsman and her team with children have also been described, in particular the work of a network of young counselors for children with 25 members aged 12 to 17 and who help to see the child's perspective, i.e. the position of children on issues they consider important. An open relationship with children and regular contacts and co-operation with children is a very important component of the lawyer's work. Here I really agree with this finding and I really congratulate you on this network of young counselors because no one can help you better in your work to be as quality as it is than children and young people. I'd like to make a few more points. The lawyer warns against insufficient protection of children whose parents are divorced or separated and deny meetings and association with other parents. Thanks to the attorney general's initiative, social care centres have been following this problem for the past few years, and it is estimated that around 1500 children are each year deprived of meeting and socializing with non - living parents. The institution’s reactions to parent’s manipulative actions are often very late, so children are really alienating from another parent. The Ombudsman therefore reiterates its call for more effective mechanisms to protect the rights of the child in the handling of the competent authorities. I'm sure the D.A.'s Office is now involved in these new laws, the Social Care Act, the Family Law which I believe through the mediation and these other forms, and with your cooperation we will also not solve this part but improve. Furthermore, children are exposed to domestic violence, school, children's homes, sports clubs, on the street. They are also exposed to adult violence because physical punishment is still accepted as a method of education, as well as peer violence, violence in educational institutions is increasingly intertwined with violence through the Internet and mobile phones. At the same time, educators express impotence and seek protection from students who act violently and see the solution as a strengthening of pedagogical measures. However, increased repression without prevention and continued working with students does not solve the causes of the problem. Still, adequate professional assistance is often neither given to victims nor children prone to violence in which early professional interventions would help to correct their behavior. I would add, of course, including always families. The Ombudsman warns of the still insufficient protection of children from sexual violence and lack of capacity to provide quality support to a child who has suffered sexual violence and the treatment of children victims of sexual violence in a judicial procedure is also problematic. It also states that despite the legal changes, there has been no desired reduction in the number of children in institutions. The foster care is not sufficiently represented, the development of foster care is too slow, the lack of specialized foster care. It is extremely insufficient to support biological families in creating conditions for re-accepting children from institutions. As a result, the detention of children in institutions and foster families is rather than adoption which is not in the best interests of the child. It is particularly worrying that institutions also have children who meet the final legal prospects for adoption but cannot find adequate adoptors for them while on the other hand we know that we ourselves have waiting lists for adoptions, so it is very important now that the competent ministry and centre be involved to resolve these indifferences. There is still a problem on the protection of the physical and mental health of children with insufficient number of experts in individual profiles, perseverance and lack of child care departments in health institutions. There is also a need for better information on the possibilities for the exercise of health insurance rights, in particular with regard to the possibility and right to compensation for treatment costs abroad. Especially is the difficult situation in protecting the rights of children with behavioral problems and mental health difficulties. They are mostly located in educational institutions where there is no adequate resource for their treatment there are no adequate resources from which they are referred to a months-long stay in the departments of psychiatry, which is completely inappropriate. These children, like hot potatoes, are transferred from institution to institution because the state has no systematic solution that would be in their interest. Doctors often organize strong medical treatments that calm their behavior and symptoms but do not treat the causes of problems that are most often in a completely and permanently dysfunctional family environment. The Ombudsman reiterates that the work and achievement of child involvement with developmental difficulties in regular educational institutions is necessary for the sensitisation and education of breeders and teachers and sublegal acts that will define their educational rights, the status of assistants in the follow-up and similar issues. The Advocate-General warns that poverty caused by the economic crisis and the general state of society is also significantly reflected in the life of children through an increasingly endangered standard of living, life in inadequate housing conditions, difficulties over parental assets, then non-payment of child restraint, reduction of social security benefits. It also warns that much more needs to be done to improve the position of children of national minorities, especially Roma children, to support them in education and to act more actively to remove prejudice in the majority population. The report reminds of the obligations to ensure the activities of the free time of children and the safety of children on playgrounds and playgrounds, pointing to inappropriate facilities for children's game insustainability and malfunctioning of game devices and lack of supervision. The obligation of units of local self-government to maintain and monitor playgrounds, and the state is obliged to take measures to pass laws ensuring the rights of the child to safe play and to grow up in secure conditions. It also reminds that environmental protection is an important and urgent task of the state and local communities, since under-time investment in infrastructure and modernisation of industrial plants that pollute the environment leads to an increasing threat to children's health in certain areas. The Ombudsman has continued to remind us of the importance of the active participation of children in society, especially in making decisions that concern them, and we adults must enable them to do so and mark them for real participation. The report also highlights the improvements made in the protection of children's rights, and the system's weaknesses described should encourage us to think and act, help us to understand what ad means in all child-oriented actions we must always give priority to the best interests of the child. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of this report, which gives a detailed and comprehensive assessment of the state of children's rights, problems and the needs of children. It gives us an incentive and opportunity to take a closer look at children’s reality and to work better and more actively to protect children’s rights. The HSU Club will support a report on the work of the Ombudsman, who considers it extremely quality and excellent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53335	Thank you very much, colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53336	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to this late hour again a little bit today about our young people about children. The 2012 Attorney General's report is indeed complete as said by her colleague Fortuna and comprehensively on 245 pages and gives an image of the rights and protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia and refers to 2012. You said yourself at first that we could say that this is the 10th anniversary report, and I have to tell you that in relation to those previous reports, at least we who have been here longer and we are participating, we see that there has been significant progress all these years, and I believe and thanks to the work of your office, which is of those initial ones, I will tell the difficulties that you have had, or the previous lawyer, here has grown into an office that gives us one picture and about rights every year, but also gives recommendations to the institutions and the state authorities and local authorities about what we should do for the benefit of children. We must begin by saying that despite the many weaknesses and failures that the Ombudsman points out in his report, a number of moves have been made to respect and protect children's rights. Our task is for colleagues and colleagues to look to their behavior, regulations, to build such a system of society that will fully protect the rights of the child. The Ombudsman for children with her co-workers at the headquarters of the office as well as in her three regional offices in Split, Rijeka and Osijek is open to all proposals, especially the commendable acceptance and opinion of the proposals by children, these young assistants I will say, young networks, young consultants who play a very important role in your work, young people from their experience are the best critics, but also those who propose changes in 2012 and have directed you to almost 4 topics of their interest. It is primarily education, health, prevention of violence and the safety of children in the media mostly on the Internet. They discussed a number of topics such as teacher and school students' vacations, school material overload, the need to protect against all forms of violence, use of cell phones in school, enrolment in high school, elimination of mid-term evaluation, physical violence among children, but also health education of introduction into school programs. You've supported the introduction of health care and I'm going to quote that I wouldn't interpret it and I'm going to tell you why. We believe that the health care programme as well as its integral part of that most controversial sexual education should be available to all students such as other programmes and subjects and forms of direct educational work, regardless of the consent of parents in accordance with the right of the child to information that is important for the protection of his health and which points to the importance of responsible sexual conduct. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Agency for Education and Education should provide quality preparation and continued professional support to teachers and professional associates who will conduct the teaching of these contents. Meanwhile, the constitutional court has abolished the preparation of the health care curricula, the ministry has obviously failed to respect the procedure, a broad debate has not been conducted, and in the opinion of the constitutional court, it must be agreed that, after all, the parents' freedom to raise children. The process of adopting and introducing this curricula itself did not precede, as I said, a broader debate, nor was the council involved, the Council of Parents and the National Council for Education and Education included. Obviously, the ministry and the agency failed to carry out technical preparations and the education of teachers and school teachers was delayed. And that's why I'm sorry that you rushed into this extremely good report of yours just pointed out that it was the right of parents, that it was the right of the ministry not to listen to the parents in this matter. Here, it's finally been debated, and I think it's all settled, and there's no more problems, especially in this sexual fourth module. The opinions of children, young counselors who promote and the importance of your office, as you say yourself are a valuable source of information and guidance to protect children's rights and their help in school activities is valuable help. But we must point out that we are pleased that despite the whole series of weaknesses and failures you point out in this report, you have pointed out that many moves have been made in Croatia to respect and protect children's rights. In addition to what was done in this area, still these figures that fellow Fortuna pointed out, I will not repeat everything and relate to 1933 individual infringements of children's rights, of which 1228 received in 2012 related to rights injured 1825 children is a really large figure. I don't know if that means it, and I believe that our public has grown up to be both children and perhaps parents are talking to you more as attorneys because they may be from about 5, 6 or 10 years ago when this office began to stand really more focused on their rights and which makes them happy, happy and confirms that your work is good. But also that significant changes occur in society. It's still, I'm going to do it again and my colleague said, the highest number of applications for violation of the child's right to life with parents and parental care. That violence and neglect in the family. Sadly, instead of being a safe place for a child’s life, the child’s life is becoming a growing problem and burden. The number of applications for the right to privacy has been reduced, the right to preserve personality, the right to know of their own origin. But it concerns the fact that, as in previous reports, there are no significant changes in the right to parents and parental care. Because it's still based on your 2012 data. 1500 children are denied that after divorce, they meet with one of the parents. In these cases, the competent institutions react slowly or do not react at all. The other day you've been attending the D.A.'s office, although this report and what I'm about to say doesn't apply to that, but it does relate to your work on the Round Table around the new Family Law. And I believe the ministry will accept your valuable, truly valuable remarks regarding the Family Law and this area of child protection. It is especially and here today it has already been pointed out that the slow adoption process and the solutions to the care of children living in institutions have already been shown. Even according to the 2012 data 1150 children live without parental care in homes and about 1700 in foster families. And colleagues have previously pointed out that all about a hundred children are adopted if everything goes to one year and that the entire list of possible adoptors is on hold. And that's where you made the observation, and I hope that we will improve that legal framework by which we will really speed up the adoption process. Certainly not to the benefit of having it in the law regulated but above all to the benefit of those children awaiting adoption. Because we need to think about them most in this process. Not so much about adoptors or institutions as about the feelings of children and those who pass through in this adoption process. Another fact of concern from this report of yours, I also spoke to the board as an educational worker, which is that compared to 2011, it was reduced by 9% of the number of children found on the night out. That's still a big problem. Why is this a big problem and it must be solved primarily by the institutions of the school but most parents. Because as many as 1406 children were out of the house at night imagined with the consent of their parents. Someone will say it's not a big number, but it's a fairly large figure if 1400 parents of our 1406 say that, I know that my child of 10, 12 years stays out late in the night of 23 hours, where he's even allowed to stay, I'm aware of that. So it's very ugly to see in big cities, mostly in summertime that kids roll, ride a bike at 2-3 hours a night. The emergence of violence among young people in educational institutions is still worrying despite a whole series of programmes implemented in schools there is no major shift for the better. The school here plays a big role, directing students to respect school rules, taking responsibility for procedures and behavior. Unfortunately, schools are still due to a late reaction to violence or not prepared to solve these problems. Schools lack expert associates. Due to the inability to employ and lack of financial resources and the reduction of education funds in 2012 and in 2013, we warned that some programmes could not be implemented. Certainly, the poor economic situation, the inability to enable children to live healthy lives, practice sports, ensure safety on playgrounds, participate in cultural and artistic activities, and under-investment in the content of leisure time also affect the appearance of peer violence. We all agree that children should be given more, but when parents are daily concerned about whether they will have bread, when they are pressured to pay bills for electricity, water, heating, whether they will be able to provide the child with basic needs of life, when it comes to existence, is certain to deny him the many rights and needs of the child. Therefore, it is not surprising that the Ombudsman warns that this very standard of living that is at stake in this 2012 influences the situation and the rights of the child. This is a good message for both the government and the reduction of funds for education because children in graduate schools are insecure, inadequate kindergartens, unsustainable and incorrect facilities at children's playgrounds, and for this they are also in charge of local communities, you point out that, by reducing decentralised school maintenance funds, raises children's safety. We must all be interested in the safety of children and the proper development of children. As the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports often makes hasty decisions, we think that some decisions have also affected the rights of a child. Surely today, a large number of children are raised in a family that is not happy, who lives hard and that dissatisfaction in recent months is growing and it is no wonder that parents face reality on a daily basis do not notice that children are largely consumed by colleagues and colleagues and alcohol and cigarettes and intoxicating funds and participate in betting games. My colleague Bonačić pointed out that we have good legal regulations. We do, but it's hard to translate them without safe funding. The role of your Advocate's Office is not only sensitization of the public but also the education of adults who must enable children to participate and make decisions, but which you must point to institutions for all that they are obliged to provide for children. In her opinion, the government has pointed out and responded to some of your remarks, but it is your duty to warn the government, to warn the institutions, and to warn the local community that we have not touched here today, that it is also obliged at local level to create conditions for a good child's life. We need to point out the attorney general that your work on the ground in the tour of these institutions as well as the organisation of expert gatherings for the protection and promotion of children's rights...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53337	Bring in the end of your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53338	Let me just finish my sentence, thank you. In any case, children's rights are commendable and HDZ will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53339	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53340	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Roksandić, I answered the line but by the end of your presentation you really touched, pointing to the report of the esteemed attorney, all those problems and what I wanted to say, and that's family. Unfortunately, all of this that you have been talking about leads to children losing their right to be born because in such difficult circumstances and situations of a young family or family, young men and women get married more and more later, there are fewer and fewer births, and there are more and more problems. The demographic situation in Croatia is frightening. And the fact that you're further complicated by the whole thing, and that's also that VAT that was on baby food, is now increased, and then that rate is increased, so no more saving incentives, the first real estate is paid taxes, and those kids who were born have no more conditions, unfortunately we can say that we're slowly going back and not forward, that we can't give the kids any more security. What's scary is that it disappeared back two years back 200 classes in elementary school. Well, that's what worries me that in the midst of these circumstances, a child really doesn't have the right to be born.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53341	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53342	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight is exactly what you've hardened. Maybe I got a little faster because I was running out of time. But I want to say it one more time. The fact that we in Croatia really have very good laws and regulations, and that is what some colleagues have argued. But in order for these laws to be implemented, we need to secure the financial resources of the one in which we are both in the economic and in the recessions of recent years. We always give up our coworkers and our colleges the easiest thing to do is to give up what children need. We should be aware of that when we vote the budgets at both local and national level. And you're right that this is precisely the result of what young people today have no certain possibility of getting to the first apartment. If we cancel them now and encourage them to live savings, if we give them some more obligations, they don't have jobs, get married late, unfortunately children are less and less born. Because that uncertainty that is present in society and that depression I would say for sure that it affects young people. We've been talking about young people for two days. We all do swear on them, but unfortunately here's all coming from these finances. We also have to ensure where we can't save that you're absolutely right about young families, and our greatest responsibility is to us here, who raise our hands for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53343	Excuse me, I'm announcing a debate on behalf of the HNS Club and my colleague, Joza Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General. And here's my colleague, twilight, is your lucky circumstance that there is no Mr. Shucker here, because based on what happened here today in the assembly because the birthright is neither the content of the report nor the content of your colleague, Roksandic, then he would probably request a breach of the Rules of Procedure as he did this morning. This was, this is a small reflection of what was happening, but it's no objection. This is just trying to get a little bit more laziness. So, this is a report that speaks of the protection of children's rights but of course everything that can be read here from this report is only actually a drop in the sea of what is actually happening to children, the achievement of their rights, the protection of their rights, and then, of course, their growth and development, the development of children and their development and the creation of a better society that is potentially resting on children. This, of course, can only be indicated from this data, which are issues and problems to be dealt with by the Ombudsman for children and, of course, by the state authorities that should take some measures based on her work, but certainly does not reflect the intensity of child rights violations in the Republic of Croatia. Because 1200 applications received by the Ombudsman, and some other data show this very clearly do not clearly indicate the actual scope of child rights violations in the Republic of Croatia. The rights of children and their analysis, their review, the report on them is, in fact, a review of the state of the entire society. In her presentation, the Ombudsman also spoke in the report about some large systems that only reflect children's rights and rights, and of course we know how complicated and difficult it is to build these systems. But it is good to see, through these, this report, from this very sensitive angle what is actually the effect of these systems and on these delicate and gentle rights as they are and promising of course rights such as children's rights. So that's how Mrs. Attorney-General talked about the difficulties in the education system, which are, of course, much wider and far-reaching than the direct right of children in that narrow sense. She spoke of the weaknesses of a judicial system which, of course, manifests its weakness in all other segments of life. She talked about other issues, but how far children's rights go and how well they scan our weaknesses and the state in which we live even talked about air pollution as one element of child rights endangerment. It is, of course, at the same time a threat and the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is often said to voters that they are always right, and children may be told that they are never wrong. This, of course, applies to both positions as a general position, as a declaration of evaluation of the two groups. Of course, at times, voters are wrong, or you may think, everyone has the right to think so, and children are also not always right. But kids actually adopt what they see, what they live and in that sense they're innocent. And they can't be much different from what they're given as an opportunity to see and learn. In Croatian society, but it seems to me beyond that there is a general collapse of the system of values. This system, a different system of values is seen especially in younger generations, therefore not children, and of course children accept it all and with this deformed system of values become adults and then of course we cannot expect that their system of values to be better if they are taught and if they have watched during their development this deformed system of values. Therefore, the shift in their system of values in a positive sense can only be accidental, but it should not be expected if the general system of values in society is damaged, disturbed and dropped in its quality. And that is why, of course, it is important that despite the weaknesses and difficulties of overall insight into the state of protection of children's rights to monitor with due care the work of the Ombudsman for children and this report, of course, is technically correct. It covers mostly most of the area of protection of children's rights. The question is whether she's putting on the right accent. And I would personally and on behalf of the CNS, give a public recognition, even if this is not such a form of communication to the children's defender on her public appearances, in which she was able to enter into conflicts and consistently do her job defending children's rights, showing sometimes courage when she has to enter some kind of political space. And that part of the defense attorney's work that I'm unfortunately following, I think she deserves a confession. Speaking of which, this report in this numerical sense is actually just a drop in the sea, I'm going to give an example. In the part of education rights violence in educational educational institutions is said to be 69 applications, which is a 15% increase compared to last year, and the Ministry of the Interior in a much more serious violation of rights such as sexual harassment and violations of sexual rights and freedom of children have 339 applications. So in something that's much more difficult, which is a crime we have so six times or five times as many reports that says, of course, that we can't rely on the intensity of these malformations in this report. And also the number of Internet violence reports totalling 14% in this one-year period, this hour, according to my conviction, is happening in Croatia 140 threats to violence committed via the Internet and through mobile phones. So in this sense, we have to have a kind of fixed reserve according to these numerical data because it does not therefore reflect the actual intensity of child rights endangerment. I'd only be talking about two parts of the report here. There is one thing about educational rights where you are actually talking a little bit about classic violations of the right of a child and it is actually said in one sentence about the feeling of the infirmity of a teacher, but not only of a teacher, but of the inability of an entire educational institution to deal with some of the violence that students do to students only talk about that segment. But there is one right that is being violated in our educational institutions that is not mentioned here at all. In fact, we are often in, our teachers and teachers are often in a situation where they cannot cope with the difficulties that some students create, that they are in fact dealing with only them, and that their entire energy is directed towards several students and one student, and the rights of 30 other students, and especially the rights of those students who are particularly advanced to get from teachers what they want and thus their right to education is kind of being denied or reduced because the system is unable to respond to those students who are jeopardizing and making this educational process difficult. It is a common case in Croatia, it happens in every school, mostly in every school, and has inconspicuous negative consequences because it prevents students from getting education so that they can, and especially for advanced students, but since it is a violation of the rights of those who are in a slightly better position then it does not enter the radar or defenders for children, it is not, at least not in this summary part of the report, and it has serious and serious consequences for the development of our young generation, or our children. And the second question I'm going to talk about here, which in my opinion is not at least spatial, so the wording won the seriousness it deserves, which is violence on the Internet and on the phone. The report says that children spend most of their time on the Internet, so if we know that what happens on the Internet is most often hidden not only from parents but is hidden from those who are competent to follow this issue, follow the child's life and lead the regulation, which is why we, therefore, are the authorities, it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is parliamentary representatives, because it is a question of very complex and deformities in this area not only on the Internet but in information communication at all, we have jobs and when we talk about all forms of life and not just children, so it is the area where children spend the most time, which is completely or to a large extent hidden both from parents and from the authorities, and of course there is a great danger and there is certainly these dangers. And normally, behavior manifested on the street, so in real life school is transmitted to that part of life on the Internet with equal characteristics or perhaps even worse characteristics because it is hidden, so it shows some forms of behavior that do not appear in real life because it is available and visible. And it's an area that I think should be more concerned with in this report and, of course, in the activities of the Ombudsman for children. So particularly stressing these two areas, pointing to the seriousness and importance of both this report and the work of the Ombudsman for children, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53345	We'll hear the replica now, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53346	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Rados, you have indeed had a very nice philosophical debate and you have touched well and I would like to complete with a few more things, when you spoke about education and the system value. Of course, we get this value system from the family, and as we grow up, we get it in education. What can be seen today, but also backwards, I will not say now just two years and back that it is unfortunately, and in particular now somehow this system of values has broken especially in education. What I personally care about as a mother, but probably already fast and grandmother is that in the offer of contaminants I call them so you simply mentioned the Internet, but we have to mention the media, that simply in this education in primary and secondary schools, objects such as musical education, such as visual, such as physical education simply it is not necessary to understand, but that's why children see something else that I have to call them, garbage music, children simply poison themselves. Of all the texts that listen to where they scream except in the bookies, except under the table with some booze, reach for drugs, they have nothing else. If they go to church, Mr. Representative, Radoš makes fun of them, if they go to religious science any religion doesn't matter, in this society they'll be ridiculed instantly, if anything else that concerns something that we would say is childlike that it's a ball, that it's a playground again they're ridiculed. And besides, I mean, we can't impose that kids don't listen to it, we can't ban the law, but if there was a law, it would be very good to have that piece of music and those contaminants of another kind of ban. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53347	Thank you. Time's up. Jozo Radoš answers to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53348	I agree with you, Comrade twilight. If it is a family, and then it is certainly a wider social environment and then educational institutions so far have been a foothold and education, and these institutions, not to be all in black tone, have obviously changed their role to us seems negative to us then of course remain these other external forms of life that then raise children, and it is neither part of any tradition nor is it under any direct supervision or management of any family of any kind. So in this sense, we do not have what much to expect from the development of children. Of course, it can't be solved by bans. It would be good if bans could be effective but most often they did not show that in a number of other cases not only in the case of children. Therefore, the quality of work that goes towards that level of responsibility remains. First, the highest bodies of those who have the most power, and then, of course, they have the responsibility of each individual. We need to get away from ourselves. It would be good for our work and our work here in the Croatian Parliament to set an example not only for children but for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia how to function and work, it would be our small individual contribution because we do not have some global general moves to solve this unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53349	We're moving on to an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic first signed up. He's gone, so he loses the right to discuss this matter. It's time for Nadica Jelash to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53350	Thank you, Vice President. Respected attorneys with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I must at first express my regret that there are so few of us. In my view, this is a very, very important topic, so we all swear on the importance of family in the importance of children, they are the center of our lives, and in fact this situation in the assembly shows how true it is or how false it is. What I want to say in my debate is that I think there is no longer a dilemma for any of us in this context about how much it takes to introduce health education to school, and in this context, I would like to introduce you to the results of a survey conducted among the teenagers of Međimurje County. It is about research on the topic "The Risky Sexual Behavior and Knowledge of Sexual and Reproductive Health of High School Students of Međimurje County" conducted by the Zora Association as part of the project "Spread Knowledge and Not Sexually Transmitted Infections.". So it's the same Zora Association that's going to iron shirts on Saturday to iron out inequality. So the goal of the study was to find out how many high school students know about sex and how often they practice it. After a year of research, each other in Međimurje was found to have sexual relations without, of course, being familiar with the risks at all. Interestingly, 43% of subjects had their first sexual experience 16 years ago and 16% at 14 years and earlier. Equally early in sexual relations are both girls and young people. So there's no difference. When it comes to girls, it's worrying that other than early sex, they rarely go to gynaecological examinations. According to research, only 68%. What's shocking to me is that 31% of them, so every third one doesn't intend to, so they said go for a gynaecological examination. Only 6% of sexually active subjects were tested for some sexual illness and asked if they would tell their partner that they had any infection that 40% would lie. When asked why he would lie, the answer of most people was because of the fear that his partner would leave him or because of general social disgrace. What are the motives for practice sex in high school kids? In high school, sex is practiced mainly because of love, less often because of a serious relationship, and slightly more than 3% of the subjects have entered sexual intercourse because of coercion and above that should be imagined. And how our young people perceive love, or a serious relationship, very vividly document data on the number of partners in relationships. In love, especially with a serious relationship, it would be logical if they were in a sexual relationship with only one partner, that would be expected. However, not at all, as many as 58% of subjects had more partners and 16% more than 5. Sexual experiences are often associated with alcohol and drugs, so 38% of teens naturally consumed alcohol or drugs during sexual intercourse. The study also showed that sexual risk behavior is related to the number of absences from school. So those who prefer more practice sex and certainly do not use any protection. According to the assessment of experts from the Zora Association, the results of the research are more than serious and there is indeed something to be done. There is a need for as many experts who deal with this problem, more gynological offices and counselling centres for young people where they will feel comfortable and where they will be able to speak openly about their problems and their experiences. Youths need to be continuously educated and thus to travel their path towards responsible, emphasising responsible sexual behavior. So this is the conclusion of the Zora Association that I believe we all support because our goal is the same. The only difference between us is how to reach that goal. The question arises who is responsible for such negative phenomena among young people and not only these, of course, but also a series of others. The ball is transferred from parents to school, from school to society, from society to the media. And as that vicious circle spins around time, young people grow up and live what we've taught them. Or what we missed out on. We can close our eyes, but the problems won't go away, nor will they be smaller. We have to admit that parents have less and less time for their children, for quality parenting. In order to ensure the existence, more and more parents who are almost completely subdued to the job, were successful, were on the other hand due to survival, and then there are directors, so credits and under such conditions are an increasing risk of increased use of child rearing methods. On the other hand, schools that, in the nature of things, in view of their educational function should be the most secure places are all actually more insecure. There are more and more frequent scenes and peer violence and parental violence against teachers. School teachers and teachers are less and less able to appeal to their authority because they have been deprived of any right to discipline. If just a voice rises on one of the students, it will soon come to a media that will send sensational headlines about the abuser teacher. Which, of course, led to the situation that the teacher was, so when the question arises, what really led the teacher to the situation so that no one really cares. The teacher must speak nicely to that student who, for example, mentioned his mother in an inappropriate context or threatened to break his car if he did not give him the grade he thought he deserved. Maybe it's all because of the preliberal education that, by passing attributes of authority from older generations to young people, led to a kind of, I'm going to use a difficult expression of anarchy. We must also admit that for the past 20 years we have taught children only about their rights. We've completely forgotten our obligations and responsibility. And now we're surprised that children are calling for their rights and denying obligations, denying every responsibility. Of course, the additional problem is parents. School teachers are completely unprotected from violent parents. It is said that we will introduce security guards to schools, will the school be able to call itself educational institutions after that? It is clear that no form of violence is or may be a desirable form of resolution... problems but those who play a educational role in society must be provided at least some conditions, at least some measures that they will be able to keep children under control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, I think we must be truly concerned about the future that awaits us all if we know that the young world remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53351	We have a single replica reported. Dear colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53352	Thank you. My colleague Jelesh, you really encouraged me with this last one of yours. I've been in the education system for a long time. The law foresaw all punishments for children’s behavior, no punishment or responsibility for their parents. You know how long that's gonna be? I'm not into repression. One day a parent told me about an election case and a case, the mother herself said you know what you gave, you gave your parents too much of your education and meddling in education and your parents got so involved in the education system that they would protect their child at any cost. And you know when we gave it away, we gave it years ago, before this country. I started working when she was so-called, I wouldn't want anyone to get it wrong, so-called. A Swiss woman who completely ignored the educational role of school and pointed out only education, education, education. In a whole series of information that we want to give to our child, we've forgotten that educational side in every teaching class, and that's why we need new curriculas. We do. We need what will bring back some kind of spirit to school, commitment, and responsibility. We made a commitment, but we're not asking for any responsibility. And we gave great rights and parents, and I agree with this parent who said you gave us too many rights, and that's why some parents use it, and they don't have any responsibility. Here's a thank you really for not identifying you as a man of education here as a parent. .../Conversation disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53353	Thank you very much. You didn't overstep. ... I would have warned you already. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's time for a respected colleague of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53354	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable counsellors with co-workers, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Idyllic afternoon, the sun shines on children's playgrounds and parks, swings whine, balls jump on all sides, children's heads are hard to count. Everyone's out there enjoying the last days of autumn or perhaps the first days of spring, all but the students of champions. When he arrived from school, he barely ate and moved, all the householders were already around him and trying to teach him by their own uncut method to read the scriptures for tomorrow. A minute arrives, slips an hour after hour, and the student champion has not moved away from identifying a letter that cannot connect to words, let alone words in meaningful text. Tears-soaked beginners instill themselves with an unfathomable reader, mom and dad, grandma, older brother, and even some neighbors and Dad's business ally who came by by by accident. Dad hasn't talked to his mom in two weeks because that's exactly what she did because she didn't put in superhuman maternal efforts to teach her how to read. She did it in kindergarten. Grandma mentions genetics and, of course, the ability to force reading into bones that are weakly assisted while he is a seven-year-old, reading apocalypse and continues to try and try. If you have only partially recognized the previous scene as a real-life scene around us, regardless of the content, in this scene it is an initial reading but it could also be mathematics, Latin, sports success, a successful performance at the event and at the end of the graduation or enrolment in college. Regardless, it's always about the disproportionateness of expectations and current possibilities. And if I repeat, you recognize the scene then you must know that this story has an alternative ending. It may end up as a statistical data from this report in Chapter 216-Right to protection against violence. Violence and neglect in the family 216.1. Body punishment in the family. From the application of these personal and phone contacts, we note that the physical punishment of children is still present in society as a method of education. This report provides information that physical punishment, slapping, hair pulling, ass-wrestling experienced 41% of children, and in a further follow-up in the 23-year-old, in some cases the school did not in time recognise the problems and difficulties of the child or provide adequate support and assistance in learning and mastering materials that led to severe violation of the right, serious health impairment, and in one case the child’s severe mental condition. Point 234 of the report, parents' relations with employees of educational institutions. We conclude from years of monitoring the relationship between parents and staff of educational institutions that a number of problems in certain cases of child rights violations stem from the lack of co-operation between parents and staff of educational institutions, so I am undermining the previous debate. Out of the lack suitable for child-oriented communication as well as from lack of information from parents, and sometimes from educational and educational workers themselves on the role of school and educational workers in education and education, or as statistical data from this year's UNICEF research as parents and communities care about children of the youngest age in Croatia, according to which each third parent hit his child at least once in the last week, and 80% of them yelled at the child for something he or she did not do. 12% believe that beatings are necessary for good education, and 17% more is not certain whether a child should be hit or not from time to time. So it can be how I described it but it can end differently – with the child's success, not with tears. It is a great responsibility for adults to love reading, learning, school and to approach the child as a source of knowledge and joy or they will spend their whole life running away from obligation and crying hours and hours hating both school and book. The key is cooperation, i.e. agreement with the teacher or teacher. He or she will certainly professionally assess whether it is normal maturation or perhaps need to seek professional help, which requires education of teachers, education, education and education. But also parents, and the mandatory permanent training of teachers. That's how the D.A. followed the start of this school year. Everything that is invested in children, especially at their earlier age, is later returned repeatedly, and children need adults not only to buy them things. They need attention, they need time, they need responsibility for adults. Children should be protected, but they must be prepared and trained to move safely and responsibly through life, to freely explore and gain new knowledge. In this important assignments and responsibilities have both family and schools and the whole community, but children themselves are in line with their age and maturity. Because having the right means respecting and defending your rights and other people's rights. And finally, parents, teachers and teachers at the moment when you lose patience teaching children to take a deep breath and smile. Old wise men say that the teeth of a child always grow, someone by two months, and some only by a year and more. Thus, with professional guidance, each child will achieve appropriate educational achievements during his or her education at his own pace. But let's go back to those teeth, because maybe it's more important than whether your teeth grew in time, whether your teeth would be rabid through life, or smiled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53355	We have a single replica reported, colleague Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, really, with your argument, we can all agree here. But you encouraged me with one important sentence, which is therefore a disproportionate between the expected and the possibility of each child. And you mentioned that this part applies to sports among other things. That's the subject that we talked about last time when you guys had your reports last year, the Child's Attorney General's Reports. In fact, we can all agree that sport is one of the biggest preventive programs, and if we are dealing with a child, sport is needed for normal psychophysical development. But if we carefully read this report, we can see that there's actually anything in the sport. We've got undereducated trainers, we've got child abuse in practice, we've got child abuse in the course of the game, we've got all kinds of problems, and we seem to have this somewhere on the sidelines, it's kind of a dark area. We're talking very little about it. We talk very little about what's actually going on, actually what, when it's the age for which sport. I see you made a recommendation to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I don't know if you'll hear it. I know that American pediatric society has banned children up to 15 years of martial arts, because every blow to the head is a consequence, and I think on that subject about the video, we talk a lot about education, but we talk very little about sports, and we all know and we push kids into sports. Everything actually remains on the responsibility of the parents. At the end of whatever happens in that sport, they end up guilty solely by parents. So society needs to take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53357	The replica matches the esteemed colleague of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53358	Thank you very much. So, I would fully agree with everyone, with the contents of your replica. And I would just like to add that, in addition to all these dangers hidden from sports in small children, that is to say, youngsters, we have to add and re-emphasise the high expectations of parents because there are a large number of parents who already see their little football player in the champions' licks and everything else that that child has, all the joy of playing sports that this child will achieve in the coming trainings and years of sports activities, surely parents' expectations will not reach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53359	There's a dear colleague, Vanja Posavac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53360	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Attorney General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's when this report is read which is really very detailed and interesting I can't say that I can quite be satisfied with the content and conclusions that we all are already in the debate and cited. Although it has been working for years to protect children, awareness is raised in the educational and educational institutions of the citizens themselves. Unfortunately, we cannot still be fully satisfied and there are obviously problems in certain segments. But what worries me even more, and I'm going to talk about it a little later that new segments have opened up where we're having problems with kids right now. They're still children of a conflict of family relations and it's still breaking on their back just like 10, 20 and 30 years ago. I'm afraid we're still a long way from polite conversation and agreement between ex-partners, but most often, in this struggle, a child is used as a means. It is estimated that some 1,500 children are in some way deprived of meeting and association with parents they do not live with, despite and spite of the children. I agree with the conclusion that in such cases professional interventions, child protection mechanisms can produce results if professional work is carried out with parents. But if parents do not want to cooperate, there is no effective child protection. This is not good, and I believe that it is high time to find more effective mechanisms for the handling of competent authorities and to protect a child who is often unfortunately in a situation that is mentally negatively affecting him, for example. The banal situation that you had at your dad's this weekend, so the kid says I had a really nice time, so my mom finds herself offended and so on. So that he should defend himself between the other and the child, and go to the opposite grandmother and grandfather and the like. So here I really hope that the new Family Law will just provide those mechanisms that we are definitely missing in that story. We can still do so often when it comes to violence and how much parents and others may be violent towards children, unfortunately, with us still a fairy tale worth beating came out of heaven. And it's actually still considered perfectly normal to punish a child physically. Well, now I'm one of those guys who got a little bit, but the other thing is, I've worked at school a long time, where we have cases that really have parents beating up kids, and we still have that. Unfortunately, the result is that the child is retreating into himself, having certain mental problems, but often also becoming violent then toward his peers and toward his surroundings. Especially worrying about violence among children. Mental, physical harassment in primary, secondary schools and clubs but I must say that indeed, like colleagues before said and colleagues, it has been very much done in this area as far as education institutions are concerned, but that we really can't transfer everything to teachers, teachers and students. There are a lot of preventive programs, but there must be community participation, as well as parents. And what I've announced at the outset is what I'm a little worried about, there's a new segment of violence, and there's a lot of it in the paper, it's the Internet, it's the phone, it's the facebook. I'm not exactly in the report here, there's a reference to the Internet, there's a cell phone. In fact, as much as new technologies bring us greater breadth, greater knowledge and, unfortunately, the facebook can be and become very, very dangerous. What worries is that parents are also unaware of what can happen to a child’s facebook, and here’s a friend tells me, so it’s just a game of games. I say don't play games, go to the site and see what he's doing. And, of course, after a few weeks, there are some problems. There's what I'm appealing to you, and all of our ministries that do this, that parents are being educated. I don't want parents to become spies but to be educated that they have to and that part, that segment still starts to follow. Malten parents don't know children have a facebook page. Because some don't go to facebooks, but it's still a little bit like that, not to mention one problem that children have since 5, 6, 7 years of orderly cell phones where Internet availability is available, where all kinds of content is available, etc. So both parents must be aware that certain technologies today pose a danger and that they must try to prevent it. After all, it is family and parents who primarily care about children. Not only can the state and society worry. Parents are extremely important in this regard, and they are also important in that protection of children from alcohol, from drugs, from bookies. Unfortunately, I worked at school, often there were cases that parents simply didn't want to recognize the problem. So, when a mom tells me I found a cigarette in his coat, they probably heard it a lot, but it's not his, it's from friends or it's against moths, it was the best thing for me, and then, of course, after that, it turns out it's both cigarettes and alcohol, etc., etc. So they have to, parents have to get really careful. And here is the end because there are more speakers and parents and children and society each must be aware of their share of responsibility, not only their rights but their responsibilities. And when we raise that responsibility together to one level, then the results will be getting better and better at protecting our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53361	I thank you, too. There's a respected colleague, Martina Banic. Here you go. ... Look, we haven't really seen you, but let us try to make eye contact when you have a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's nod that we know. Here's my colleague Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Children especially need protection in dealing with them, so to speak, we show our true face. This applies to adults but also to societies and countries. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the most frequently ratified document on human rights, but all these years, there have been violations of children's rights in families, institutions and elsewhere. According to the 2012 Ombudsman's Report, nearly 2,500 new cases have been opened, of which many point to reports of violations of individual children's rights, reports related to issues of parental care and reports of violence against children and child neglect. The report shows that old problems still exist, but that there are many new problems. There are still numerous reports arising from conflict situations in the family. The problem is the protection of children who are faced with the interruption of their parents ’ marriage or extramarital union. There are parents who deny a child’s visit to another parent, and unfortunately, there are a large number of parents who neglect their children, avoid weekends that should be spent with them later than it is agreed upon, hold no captains at all and often neglect their child in this way. Conflict divorces are a big problem. Many children today are exposed to domestic violence. We are increasingly witnessing sexual abuse in the family, and sometimes there is no overall help. There are still a large number of children in institutions, the problem is also in late nights. Today is the most normal time to see a child going to 6th, 7th or 8th grade that is out in town after midnight by cafes, parks, etc. These are the problems I have identified, and these are the problems we talk about all the time, often. But what I think is becoming a growing problem, and I see that other colleagues and colleagues have recognized it, too, is violence on the Internet. Children are increasingly exposed daily to their own ignorance, which is due to known children’s curiosity. Social networks that are increasingly present in our lives and become inevitable in everyday life often become a big problem for children but then become a problem for their families. Part of the problem is that parents are less educated in this area than their children, so they often do not know what their child is doing on the Internet. We are aware that certain groups that appear on social networks often have inconspicuous consequences for children but also for their families. I believe that many remember stories from June this year that went about like this, "Death M.J. 15 years off is treated as suicide but the police are conducting an additional investigation to clarify all circumstances from the last phone call to the gun. Peaceful, withdrawn and diligent always ready to help, the girl with her family until just a few weeks ago in a small Zagorje place lived like any other 15-year-old, and then on social networks the first attacks on her were on her. For the time being, a group of unknown girls and boys have rudely insulted her through profiles on the Latvian social page, brutal insults, curses, disgrace and humiliation have not stopped for weeks. The pressure was getting bigger. She didn't kill herself, I can't do this anymore, best off not complaining about it to her best friend. She didn't come home from school Tuesday night." It's just one of the examples that unfortunately has more and more. Experts warn that any communication via the Internet is harmful to individual and generally good violence that is the third most common cause of child suicide. The data suggests that in the world, nearly 20,000 children are tried annually, and four thousand succeed. It's spread because it gives the perpetrators an incentive to be anonymous, so they don't think they have to respect limitations, manners and standards of behavior. That then leads to these tragedies. I'd like to refer to another case that started only a week after this Lobor case, but this case is still going on today. It's a story from Vinkovac, where a group on a facebook is organized so that private pictures of girls are placed on the wall of the group, who are mocked and insulted by users, called names, ridiculed and accused of prostitution. Even 4 months of the above mentioned page has been deleted, and the 2nd lipopad on the facebook has been reactivated. On that page are the publication of pictures, of course by underage girls. The problem of Internet abuse is spreading as the broadband spreads. We can see from the attorney's report that 19 reports of infringements of individual rights of children were received in 2012, and the reports mainly related to the photography and video recording of children, the protection of personal data and records of children, the publication of data on the web, facebook, Twitter and youtube, however, there are many, many more. But children often fail to trust their parents and report because they spend much more time on the Internet than their parents allow. Rare are those who surf with the presence of parents or older people such as rare ones whose parents know that they have opened profiles on social networks. We also see in the report that there have been 14 reports of violence on the Internet and mobile phones of which 3 were related to the phone, 11 of which are on the Internet, and there are parents who are right now due to the opening of fake profiles of children online, for sending disturbing messages via facebook. Although we do know that when registering to a facebook profile they cannot open up persons who are less than 13 years old, it is stated in the rules of the facebook but there is no real control for it. Children open fake profiles under fake names and last names and fake birth dates. Not long ago, we had the opportunity to see that the Brave Phone also conducted a study whereby 68% of children under the age of 13 have open profiles on the facebook. What I'm talking about, colleagues and colleagues are just some of the problems children and parents face every day. If we add all of this to the growing poverty of the family daily encounters a problem of cancellation, pay failure, endless job search, there are more and more frequent cases of young families becoming social cases overnight, they are very often burdened with loans, they find themselves in a situation where they have lost their jobs, and their only way out is the soup kitchen. These are all facts that greatly affect children’s needs and rights. Children and young people are the foundation of Croatian society, they are our future and it is necessary to do everything to enable them to grow safely and happily.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53363	Thank you. We have a signed replica of the respected Dunje Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53364	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I only have the need after your debate, which is really valuable and full of good information or useful information that is not good, and you have listed a whole series of bad and even fatal experiences of children on the Internet, facebook and twitter, to point out that still our children mostly use the Internet for everyday communication to get information and that our children are mostly affirmative and that these examples that you have mentioned and spoke of fortunately are still in the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53365	The replica corresponds to the appreciation of Martin Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, I agree that children use the Internet in daily communication and I am sure that the beginning of using social networks is precisely for that reason of communication, that we are closer to friends, friends, children have actually replaced text messages with messages via Facebook or Tweeter or some social network. Because Internet social networks feel like something that's free because they have all the phones that their parents have bought them. However, I would not quite agree that these bad events happen through social networks are minorities. I think there's a lot of it because kids actually go into trouble unconsciously. They publish various photographs, and often these photographs are of course misused. It may not talk about it enough, but here I am doing some research for the needs of my doctoral work where I was surprised that children really at primary school in the 2, 3rd or 4th grade have the most normal profiles open on the networks and that everything I asked them about these social networks was practically ridiculous because they know it all, they use it all in all possible ways, but at the end of the day, it ends with violence and insult by a lot of those groups that are opening up and that the kids are lying down and who they join just often just change the name of that group and then it turns out that the kids are in some group where they insult another child. And now it occurred to me that in the fifth grade my children wrote that they themselves founded a group of hate fugitives. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53367	The debate will now include respected counterpart Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53368	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed lawyer with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. We have a truly extensive report on the work of the Ombudsman for children. For the introduction, I'd like to quote a saying: "What a teacher spoils is not even 10 policemen will not fix.". Sadly, anything that parents do wrong or fail to do to make children suffer their whole lives. The Croatian Assembly has authorized your esteemed Ombudsman to protect children's rights in all areas where the system has failed. I have to admit, your job is not easy, but in my opinion, you're doing it well. One part of the report would have been particularly isolated. This says that even today, the concept of children’s rights is still being questioned by individual parents, teachers, and even those who are dealing with human rights in their business by equating children’s rights and children’s obligations until the human rights of adults are questioned and they have exercised their obligations and acted responsibly. Pedagogical very well. I think every teacher should read this. Since this report covers a large area of protection for the rights of the child and is indeed extensive. I'm going to single out some interesting aspects just because I'm a parent myself and I've worked at school for a long time. First of all, the right to privacy that has been talked about here primarily in terms of the safe use of modern technologies, websites and social networks. To quote from the report: "Contemporary parenting requires and new knowledge and skills so it is necessary to learn and inform permanently about the development and needs of the child but also about what is a stimulating and secure environment for the child.". And another sentence: "It is necessary that parents and all individuals, institutions that take care of children but also media understand what it means to protect children's privacy.". So to continue on to a part of the replica of my colleague, Spoljar, when he says that the Internet or modern technologies are not in themselves bad but very important that all those who know about children know the rules and needs of children, in fact, in which way they can certainly use these technologies. The brave telephone and Child Protection Poliklinika of the City of Zagreb conducted a study this year in experiences about the behaviour of children on the Internet and on the social network of Facebook. Due to nearly 1500 children in Croatia aged 11 to 18 in schools in rural and urban areas, the following data came up. Even 93% of children have an open Facebook profile. 68% of them opened their profile before the 13th year when actually the age limit, when access to this social network is allowed. Which is an interesting piece of information. The presence of children on Facebook is almost uninterrupted because 84% of them are reviewing their profiles and placing sets on cell phones they always carry with them. Every fifth child spends more than 3 hours a day on Facebook. And half of the children studied are looking at their Facebook profiles during their classes. In 78% of children's families there are no rules for using Facebook. As the child's age grows, their parents are setting up fewer and fewer restrictions regarding Facebook use. And right now children aged 15 to 16 are the most endangered group for both the act and the experience of peer violence. Thus, the family rules for Facebook use do not have 93% of children who commit violence via Facebook. As well as 88% of children who experience and commit violence on Facebook. In a total sample of children included in the study 12.1% experienced violence on Facebook and 9.6% acted violently. The analysis of a group of children who are in any way involved in violence on Facebook obtained a percentage of 44.4% of them who experience violence, 29.7% of them who act violently and 25.9% of children who experience and commit violence on Facebook. Each fifth child declares that several times or often received offensive messages or comments via Facebook, each other has experienced at least one time and 9% of children admit that it has done so several times. Every fourth child has been spread lies through Facebook and 7% of children admit to doing so themselves. In the context of child rights violations, there should also be mentions of cases mentioned in the report on the placement of cameras in educational and breeding institutions because often the motivation for such actions is not clear. After the area of family relations that are at the top of child rights violations is the area of violence against children and children. In addition to domestic violence and neglect, it is important to mention inter-primary violence that has a major impact on the psycho-social development of the child as well as violence in youth relationships. One study shows that 27% of children experience some forms of violence daily or almost daily at school both verbal and physical. 16% of children almost act violently towards other children every day, with 8% of children at the same time making and experiencing violence. Boys act significantly more violently, but they also experience violence. At the age of 10 to 14, the frequency of violent behavior increases, especially verbal behavior. On average, the school success of children who are more frequent victims and who often make violence worse. Only about 22% of children victims of violence contact an adult for help. This is a defeating data, and it may be part of the debate before we actually say these minor injuries are reported more than the serious forms of violation of children's rights. Most often children talk to their parents for help, and only 11% have turned to teachers for help. The report well-detected problems related to the prevention of violence. Unequal enforcement of existing regulations, lack of implementing rules, as well as lack of legal support for staff of educational institutions certainly contributes to ineffective prevention of violence and further confuses both children and their parents and all experts involved in addressing the problem of violence. In all cases of violence, clear treatment protocols are needed. A major problem cited by the report is the lack of professional school associates. Parents and workers of educational institutions as well as parents of each other, and I have experienced this myself, are often seen as enemies who are trying to prove who is right, forget about the real problem and help of a child. The report very well concluded that parents as well as children should be involved in the prevention of violence and trust should be built there. As far as illicit nightouts are concerned, there is a rather complex problem in relation to parents. On the one hand, you have an irrefutable possibility of having a bad influence on the child, and on the other hand, the isolation of the child from his peers. Unfortunately, I'd like to say that these dates are not an exception, but a rule. It is good that the report systematically brings a picture of the level of child protection as a transport participant. There we certainly need to make a lot of extra efforts to raise this security to the highest level. Finally, given the content and methodologically well-conceived report, it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53369	Thank you. It's my dear colleague Dubravko Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable attorneys with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, there is a comprehensive report before us that actually in its scope tells us how wide it is, to paraphrasise my colleague, a broad-ranging injury that children in today’s world are experiencing. However, I will actually concentrate on only one smaller segment of this report since I have recently been the director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and we have collaborated together with the Advocate and other institutions to suppress all the phenomena that occur, especially in modern technologies to protect children's privacy. It's true what colleagues and colleagues before me have repeated in this segment. It is true that more and more children are on the Internet today, that more and more children are on social networks, and that it is not really a problem that computered as such, but problems are precisely smart phones that more and more children have since the 1st grade until then later and that children use daily for social networking. Today we can talk about the lives of children in the off-line world and in the online world and just the children unaware of the importance and unconscious in fact their real presence in the online world falls into troubles about the very protection of privacy because they are really under a lot of dangers, from mobbing to fishing, to the various other dangers that they are exposed to in that segment. And the fact is that since the 1st grade, here we have as an agency participated in some preventive actions in Zagreb elementary schools where children in the 1st grade, in the 2nd already fully sovereignly rule social networks and modern technologies themselves, and this really poses a danger. We may not view this as a major danger for children where parents also have the sovereignty of information technologies, but we also have situations, especially in rural areas where children know much more than parents and children themselves in their young age, they set rules of behavior on both the Internet and on social networks, and in fact the biggest problem arises. Of course I agree with my colleague Spoljar, the question of education is crucial. However, not only can the Attorney's Office be included in this education, it cannot be included only in the school system, it must include the entire social community, and most of all these modern channels that are the most accessible media. Today we have had the opportunity to listen and actually object and the attorney general how much media, publicly available and widely available media these topics are not interesting, except when they become news of the black chronicle as counterpart Banic mentioned. Only then do we become aware of the importance of these problems, but their taking place and happening is actually long before and the goal of us as a society, as a community is to prevent it from happening at the very beginning. Of course, in the school system where we are all either as parents or as teachers or as observers, the most common and major injuries occur. Here's every school almost today has video surveillance, the halls are being recorded. As director of the agency, I experienced not a small number of requests to put video surveillance in the classroom itself, first to monitor children but to monitor teachers, which is inadmissible. It's also a matter of photography. Here we were now at the 9th month aware of the increase in press sales, especially in small communities that published pictures of students per grade, individually, group. These are all small things that parents are generally unaware of, and how often the state of consciousness often parents actually say low, and what counterpart Vanja Posavac said about opening profiles on social networks by parents. So parents themselves open their own underage eight-year-old, nine-year-old profile and drag it into the world of modern technology, so to speak, but completely, completely unprepared. If everything wasn't so bad, I would point out that there are many initiatives, many good initiatives, many actions that are currently working on this education. One of them is the Centre for Safer Internet, which also participates in the Office of Advocates and the Ministry of Interior and Agency and CARNET and which are trying in an appropriate way to protect children on the Internet. They're always there, of course. I would also like to mention the Association of Teachers in Classes, which also participates greatly in these preventive actions and in fact awarenessing children and young people about the dangers lurking on the Internet. There is, of course, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which acts that way. And in the end, I would just look back as mayor of a small town on this question of the right of a child to play and on a safe game, on certain playgrounds. We've often had examples of these devices being insecure, incorrect, 30-year-olds and children actually putting themselves in danger by playing on them. However, it is not mostly a question of money as to how it is often tried, but rather a matter of priorities. If you're going to invest a million kunas in building a wine road, and you won't find 30,000 kunas for a certain atested playground, then there's no problem in money but is the problem in you, or the problem is in the one that needs to set up that playground. And in the end, I can only praise the work of the Attorney's Office and wish them that they have as little work as possible and that these problems are getting smaller and more harmless.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53371	This debate has caused a full flood of replicas, but we're going in a row. First esteemed colleague, Đurjica Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53372	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bilic, you had a very good discussion. I was particularly pleased to hear this last part of you when you were talking if you can give for the wine road I don't know a few hundred thousand kunas, and there's no feeling, no desire to help the children to be given for the playground. And you mentioned well in the reality of how children are used. It has long been known that children are the best buyers, i.e. that industry of toys, clothing, food, candy, everything is subject to them. And they did, and it's often been warned by the D.A. about it. They use it to sell as much as possible, different icons, images, I don't know. And then with what they're offered, they're offered, of course I said about it, I have to, it hurts very much, this one cop music that really propagates just as I would say it. Look, if in some stupid text is someone's bracelet or I have no idea what, so what's the kid's perception? And then those dresses and then I see the marked goods have to be, they have to be cell phones I have no idea of the first generation, second, or whatever order that goes on. There's a big problem. Today, however, we are only talking about problems. She has beautiful children, children who do wonderful art in music, who are wonderful athletes, who are exemplary children at school. Here it is, since we're talking tonight and we keep talking about problems, we have to, but I'd like to talk to them once about those kids and those parents who have such children, who are really proud of those kids, can be proud of all the Croats that they are children who can be representative, our children who should be a role model to the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53373	Another replica is a colleague of Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bilić, I also agree with your debate and I am really glad that you have touched the problem of violence on the Internet, especially on social networks. The fact is that social networks are all around and they're inevitable and it's also impossible to protect children from networks. That's not even necessary in my opinion. Education is essential, especially parents, but education and children are essential. We often say that prevention is important. I think in this case prevention is cautious, but with caution and education. Therefore, children should be taught from kindergarten to elementary school, but also from high school, on social networks or anywhere else. Because it may be high school kids who get in a lot faster, so maybe we shouldn't just look at little kids, we should look at all the kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53375	Replica Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Bilic, you said at one point that the children began to take control of everything, of the situation we are in. And I can absolutely agree with you here. But it seems to me, and some of my colleague Sumrak touched that the media recognized it very well, our marketing agencies, and then it happens to us that today's commercials don't actually work for adults at all, but commercials only work for children. And then we find ourselves in a situation where children come to the store and then parents who are in this economic situation are probably in a very difficult position simply forced to buy various unnecessary things, because these children simply have to have everything their friends have in class and then have different scenes in shops. And then parents spend and buy really absolutely unnecessary things. In fact, we're going back to the beginning again, which is responsibility, responsibility of the media. We don't, I've already said that in today's debate about the occupier. We don't have media responsibilities. The media is completely left to the market and then it happens to us that our children don't actually have anything smart or good to look at or read in any of our media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53377	Ante Babic also signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53378	I am the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, and I looked you straight in the eye and you noticed this time. I'm guessing you're working in the field, and that's what you're getting at, and you really have a clue about it. I have great respect for teachers, teachers, educators, and I know how much effort they put into raising our children. I happen to have five children, and I have lived in that puberty for 10, 12 years, and I have a lot of problems like any other family in Croatia. Internet violence you were saying was this global problem. It is not a problem for Croatia that is the problem of all the countries of the world. Today you will see in Split I do not know in Sibenik on the 5 Japanese waterfront how they communicate through Facebook, or via text at the same table. What I expected you to say, and that's very important, through that internet, through that Facebook, is that children become socially stiff. They don't have that social communication, they don't develop it. It is very dangerous, dangerous for the future of these children in this cyber world and especially in very attractive commercial interactive games that are naturally played from 11 o'clock to 3 o'clock in the morning with all those who join these games around the world. But unless we want to live in suspense because of our children, the family is the only institution in which society must invest. And believe me, home education is irreplaceable. Neither the school nor the church nor the society nor the associations can compensate for home education. And the formula to save our children and our society and this country is family. It's an alpha and an omega. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53379	I noticed that Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic also applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53380	Thank you very much. My colleague, I would like to rephrase to you in a way that I would first agree with you in commendation of the lawyer with her team who is doing a very difficult and responsible job and I would say she deals only with children, protecting children is not so dangerous. It is exposed to great dangers that often the public knows little about. But as women, they do it bravely. You're talking, and everyone here is talking about dangers lurking from the Internet. That's right. We are bound by the UN Convention of Article 17 which speaks precisely about all countries taking measures to protect children from information and materials that threaten its well-being. We can't say we won't turn off the Internet, there's nothing we can do about it. We can! What can we do? We can't rule it out, but we can give the child the right information. And that's what this country does through civic education, through health care because they're children's rights. For, and the next provision of the UN Convention referred to in Article 24, the child has the right to health care, to information on his health and counselling centres for parents, education and family planning services. Finally, the provision of Article 29, which in this context in which you have spoken, speaks precisely about how a child has the right to such an education. So that's what we all agree on. But often when it comes to implementation and then we wouldn't really find out what in the most vulgar way, in an irresponsible way gets from other information. Therefore, what is especially to be pointed out is responsible parenting that Pope John Paul II spoke of, responsible parenting but also by children the right to responsibility and the right to his rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53381	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't want to talk about the Internet, although I sign all of what my colleagues said, but in your last part, you encouraged me to think. You said you didn't need money and you didn't need it and it's not often for the danger of children on playgrounds of important faulty devices, toys or I don't know what are important priorities. I agree completely with you. In my debate on behalf of the club, I stressed that the importance and responsibility of all of us who raise our hands to the state budget that these items relating to the needs of children should not be reduced. I know that the priority is economics, entrepreneurship, and I don't know what, but our responsibility to the kids is great, and we all said that today, and the lawyer. But not only the state, but the local communities. And that's why it would be good for the attorney general to be offered your replica, which you've also given, maybe it would be good to do one test on a number of local self-government units that they're setting out for children's needs. So perhaps some units of local self-government would imagine that they singled out maybe for a wine road or I don't know what a million kunas like you eventually cited as examples, and maybe for the needs of children they didn't single out anything. It's especially important in the smaller environments. In large cities it is likely through public needs programmes both in sport and in culture and in education and children's needs somewhat, but in small communities, in small municipalities you said you were coming from a small town it is necessary. Maybe this initiative you started would be a good lawyer. I know you've got a lot of work to do, but in one period, you'll do research like that. How much local environment stands out for the needs of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53383	This replica is matched by colleague Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53384	Here's your thanks, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, you're absolutely right. Here I am now taking over the city and I've found it in large cash dues, but what we've set ourselves as a goal is just to worry about, so there's no confusion I took it from a fellow party, so you don't think I'm politicizing. All I'm saying is that we've set ourselves up for even though we're a small town with a small budget, we've set ourselves a goal exactly that, a concern for children for their education and for their well-being. And in that small and modest budget we started here for the start of the school year we helped parents with 100 kuna to buy school supplies. That's about 100,000 kuna. Okay. We could have paved 100m of road for 100 grand. We didn't do that. We did this. We also equipped two IT classrooms in our primary school and fully co-financed or finance the education of 1st grade children. Information education is just to be able to deal with these problems and a number of other activities because, of course, in cooperation with the economies, not to be against, we're going to make these days and a playground that's going to cost almost 100,000 kuna. The playground will be placed on the square for small children so that they can be found in the square, and that parents can be sure that they play safely and on suitable devices. It's only about setting priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53385	And the last replica of the esteemed Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53386	Thank you. Here's a colleague of yours. You've touched a lot of it very well. I'm not gonna go on the Internet anymore. We're all kind of too maybe tonight just about the Internet. We've got another problem. It's television like that. Children spend too much time before that television, and media like their colleague said they've become quite irresponsible in the truth because first and foremost profit and market. That's clear. Namely, if you ask a child if he reads a book, not a newspaper, not the Internet, he'll look at you as I say who in great wonder, because reading a book to them is actually something that sucks, out of date, it's done by old people who don't have anything better to do, etc. And as you all said here tonight we all agree there is definitely the most important family. It is family that will influence the child not to watch television but to direct him to the book. There's part school, but mostly parents. And what you said about playgrounds, unfortunately, it's not always a matter of priority. With us in Bjelovar, we have played playgrounds together with parents, and all their honors have been restored, but at night and evening, those great children come to those same playgrounds that devastate to that extent that they are not at least another week, two usable. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53387	Thank you. It remains in the end for us to hear the very defender for the children of the esteemed Mila Jelavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I would briefly just look back on your discussions and what we heard here today and, for starters, really thank you for all these discussions and for contributing to the debate on the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia for 2012. However, some of the questions may have been more pronounced, and you may have mentioned yourself more, so I might also manifest myself to them regarding our activities, but also opportunities not only for us as offices but also for the wider, ultimately as parliamentary representatives who live in the environments and share the fate of children living in your local environments, and in fact you can best see how and how life takes place in all segments where they grow and develop. Violence through the Internet or the Internet as a topic if we look at the number it seems to me that the most discussion was on the subject and what I would like to say is that what Mr. Radoš pointed out is that the figures are not representative in our report or they are not in general, they are and that is true, it is only our statistics on office statistics or the number of applications that we received as an office. We often use data from resors in certain topics or problems that collect them in the way and methodology that they have been established and are indeed valuable to us. But this is a representation that is ours and the number of these cases does not give away a picture of the condition it is in reality. We would sometimes be happy if it were a real picture of the situation, but unfortunately in many segments it is more pronounced, stronger and those figures are certainly much, much larger. Internet, new technologies, social networks, mobile phones are relatively phenomenal or the topics are still new dates, and I think we all need a lot more knowledge about it, but of course we also teach children about it. The Internet has also brought in social networks, new technologies, however we want many benefits for children and certainly there are many issues and many topics that can be used for both their education and many other situations. Unfortunately, though, it brings benefits and risks, shortcomings, and these risks we must be aware of. It has been mentioned often today in the debate that entirely small children have open profiles on social networks. What we are learning is that in many of these situations it is the parents who help them open the profile of the unconscious fact that in this way they are exposed to a number of dangers. The question is how well parents are aware of it and with the education of professionals who work with children here I really think a educational staff, I think that parents should in any case have taught it because many children today have much more information and knowledge about new technologies than their parents do so that often or difficult they can also monitor their children in association with someone with whom they are on the social network. I'm going to mention here a legal provision that we can't rule out even social networks that a parent has his underage child in association with other people. The law did not say whether it was a real life, or a real life, or a virtual world. I would say that this applies to everything and that they could actually be in step with their children is certainly important much, much more information that they have themselves. And here I would even mention as a contribution actually easier maybe to detect child rights violations via the Internet especially when it comes to sexual violence is recently an open order button of the MUP, meaning a red button that makes it easier for children and gives them greater opportunities, i.e. making it easier for them to apply. I hope, or we will follow how this will happen, I hope it will be in a function of child protection, much, much more and much more effective. I would also mention that in the discussion here, the problems of children with behavioral disorders in the education system and the fact that those children who have behavioral problems actually interfere with the work of other children, i.e. to draw attention to teachers to do them rather than to other children. We can talk about it as a problem and it certainly is, but here I want to point out that transferring or not dealing with these children or these children and the fact that they have behavioral problems encourages us or commits us to increased care and increased working with these children precisely because of those children who have no problems and who do not behave violently. In fact, isolateing a child like this in a special environment will not teach him any social skills, nor will it actually lead to their behaviors or behaviors being improved. However, in the midst of problems, it is necessary to solve where they come from. I mean, actually, let's not look at the way that other kids are damaged, that's exactly what can be for the benefit of these other kids. What often teachers tell us is that they lack knowledge in their education with new phenomena of violence, which is something that according to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports we actually go with recommendations asking that they also help education or better put on teachers how they can deal with these problems. Our children are both the ones with the disorders and the ones who have no disorder and actually deserve the same attention from ours. Both must be focused on each other and we must enable education and all other rights and the achievement of them and in the regular system of education and in all other ways. Rights and responsibilities were also mentioned. I'd actually say here that the difference between children and adults is not right. They both have them, and it's perfectly normal and understandable to have them. But they differ in responsibilities. Children need to develop them, so children need to develop them, and they need to be helped by adults. If we didn't help them, we're actually responsible. And in this way, I would like to point out that for the development of responsibility for responsible behaviour towards ourselves and others is the responsibility of us adults. We're responsible for them. Isolated for children at all levels is also the subject that we are, which is also mentioned on several occasions. I'd just like to remind you that as an office, we've been in favour of setting up so-called office for years. the child's budget, i.e. at all levels of both national and local, shall be allocated to specific items or items of funds intended for children or children. In this way, it would be much easier to follow as a society, as a state, as a community we actually lay down on children's rights, as we stand for their achievements. Or have we given children and their rights when it comes to the distribution of money priority and advantage? We certainly stand for it, and we would like to really think about it that way at all levels. I think I've covered it, if I'm not something, I don't know, I may have forgotten, but I'd stop here, if there's a need I can speak further but also given the time, here, thank you, I'd like to thank you once again for the debate. And she said that today's debate and everything we've heard and through the views and committees and clubs will actually be us and the expansion of the topic but also an incentive to work on the welfare of children together with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53389	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this report tomorrow. Now we're gonna stop the work. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., and this is the Attorney General's report on gender equality. No, no, I'm sorry, Attorney General's report for persons with disabilities for 2012. [[Intruder: No, no, no...]] Thank you and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-17-0.u53390	And finally report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2012. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted by 120 votes in favour, i.e. unanimity. This concludes the decision on the items of the agenda, and we are going back to the debate by the representatives' clubs on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2012.
